addtech's sustainability report 2015/2016

addtech's sustainability report 2015/2016
purpose and objective of the report
the purpose of this sustainability report is to describe the addtech group's objectives, strategies and
governance, as well as accountability, risks and opportunities from a sustainability perspective. its
purpose is also to show the group's results from an economic, environmental and social perspective. by
continuously evaluating the business from these perspectives, we visualize savings and improvement
potential and minimize our risks. in addition to contributing to the business value, the goal of the
sustainability report is to provide customers, employees and shareholders an understanding and
knowledge of addtech's csr (corporate social responsibility) work.


we add value
addtech has been working according to the same business concept since 1906 - representing international
suppliers on the nordic market. the business concept has proven successful for over a hundred years,
which is testimony to the fact that, despite the industrial trend and varying state of the economy, a link is
needed between manufacturers and users, as long as it adds value.

the value is created in our subsidiaries, which feature an endeavour to be the market leader in well-
defined niches. our sales people are business professionals with technical expertise who work closely with
our customers and suppliers to cater to various customer requirements. the product range spans
standard components to bespoke holistic solutions, all of which have a high expertise and technology
content.

addtech adds value by being an active owner of independent subsidiaries. we constantly grow through
acquisitions and are proud today of being a group with more than 120 active subsidiaries. because our
subsidiaries have a high degree of freedom and are themselves responsible for their operations, while
forming part of a greater group at the same time, we combine the financial strength, experience and
extensive network of a large, listed corporation with the personal commitment and business acumen of
the subsidiaries. with our size and strength naturally comes great responsibility with respect to our
owners, employees, society and the environment. our ambition is for addtech's operations to have a
positive effect on our surroundings and to promote long-term sustainable development through economic
and technological value creation.


key events in 2015/2016
   addtech employees are absolutely crucial for our success. a good corporate culture lays the foundation
   for job satisfaction, low absenteeism, good relationships and low staff turnover. addtech is, and should
   be, a company where work and private life can be balanced. employee surveys are conducted
   regularly to ensure a favourable work environment. group management and managers attach great
   importance to the information from the employee survey and are working on making changes based on
   the results. addtech strives to achieve a working environment that promotes health and wellness.
   based on the most recent employee survey, the group has identified areas for improvement and
   carried out initiatives where there was potential to improve working conditions or the work
   environment, both in the individual subsidiaries and at the group level. additional employee surveys
   and initiatives in this area will be carried out in 2016.

   suppliers are an important stakeholder group in addtech’s sustainability efforts. an analysis of
   suppliers' sustainability and relationship to addtech’s code of conduct has continued during the year
   and efforts to obtain more responses continue. no significant inadequacies have emerged among the
   suppliers to date. during the year more companies participated in the supplier evaluation and additional
   companies will be channelled into this evaluation during the financial year 2016/2017. the goal is that
   the dialogue with suppliers will strengthen their sustainability work and motivate them to integrate it
   into their business models so that we can add value together in the same direction.



about this sustainability report
addtech publishes an annual sustainability report. the report is a key part of the sustainability work as it
highlights these issues in the group so that employees, owners and other stakeholders receive the
opportunity to learn about how the sustainability work is being developed. reported topics include the
group’s use of energy, climate impact, employee turnover and employees’ occupational health and safety.



                                                     1

the report complies with application level c of the global reporting initiatives (gri) g3 and pertains to
the 2015/2016 financial year, with comparative data from the 2014/2015 financial year. unless otherwise
indicated, the sustainability report encompasses the operations of the group as a whole. during the year
2016/2017, work has begun with the objective of the group being able to report accordning to gri g4 in
the financial year 2016/2017.

this sustainability report has not been reviewed by the company's auditors.


about addtech
addtech is a technology trading group that provides technological and economic value added in the link
between manufacturers and customers. addtech operates in selected niches in the market for advanced
technology products and solutions. its customers primarily operate in the manufacturing industry and
public sector.

addtech has just over 2000 employees in more than 120 subsidiaries that operate under their own
brands. the majority of addtech's operations is concentrated to the nordic countries. the group also
operates in 14 countries outside the nordic region, and also exports to a further 20 or so countries. group
sales are around sek 6,2 billion and the addtech shares are listed on the nasdaq omx in stockholm.

our operating companies endeavour to be the market leader in their niches. the companies are bound
together by addtech's corporate culture where business acumen and technological expertise are key, and
where the flexibility, personal approach and efficiency of small companies is combined with the group's
extensive network, resources and financial strength. addtech pursues long-term developmental work in
the area of sustainability, comprising all subsidiaries in the group. sustainability is about taking long-term
responsibility for the sustainable development of employees, the environment and profitability.
strategy and governance

strategy and governance
addtech’s vision is to be the leading value-adding tech provider. to achieve that vision we must run our
business sustainably. addtech aims to meet the sustainability requirements and expectations set by
customers, shareholders and employees and to promote sustainable technological development.

the group’s sustainability work involves addtech taking long-term responsibility for the sustainable
development of employees, the environment and profitability. global and local requirements to reduce
emissions and increase sustainability in society are turning sustainable products and solutions into a
means of competition in the technology trading market. addtech strives to be a better choice than the
competitors and actively works to meet this demand. we do so through our subsidiaries, which are
dedicated to meeting this demand by developing and offering solutions that increase our customers’
energy efficiency and reduce their environmental impact. our subsidiaries already provide technical value
creation that reduces customers’ energy consumption and makes them more sustainable. by continuing to
develop sustainable solutions for our customers we increase our competitiveness while also contributing to
a sustainable society.

addtech’s subsidiaries have extensive experience with meeting market requirements regarding quality
and environmental certifications, and sustainability is a strategic issue within the group. addtech has a
dedicated corporate social responsibility (csr) council composed of representatives from its different
business areas. the aim of the council is to plan and decide on activities that contribute to strategic
sustainability thinking in areas concerning working conditions, the environment and ethics.the group's
sustainability work has resulted in our code of conduct being implemented in all subsidiaries, an annual
sustainability report according to global reporting initiative (gri) guidelines application level c and
supplier audits. a group-wide employee survey has also been introduced, which in turn has led to the
introduction of a regular employee dialogue and situational leadership.

addtech’s corporate structure and operations, with over 120 subsidiaries, present a challenge in terms of
achieving rapid results in sustainability work, since many units have to introduce completely or partially
new processes. the work paves the way for more attractive customer offerings, greater cost reductions
and improved quality and hr measures.
sustainable development at addtech




                                                      2

sustainable development at addtech

sustainable development at addtech
at addtech we aim to continue to create value for our shareholders, employees, society and the
environment. we summarise it into three categories - added economic, social and environmental value.




added economic value
economic strength is a cornerstone for investing in sustainable development, and addtech is dedicated to
ensuring that we are both competitive and cost-efficient. in a constantly changing world, companies must
develop to survive in the long term. addtech's overall vision is to be the leader in value-added technology
trading through clearly defined growth, profitability and development requirements. these concepts are
thus fundamental to addtech's sustainability work.


added social value
a fundamental factor in addtech's sustainable development is taking account of all the people affected by
our operations. this includes our customers, suppliers, employees, collaboration partners and the
communities in which we operate. in order to sustain our good reputation, addtech shall maintain high
quality and ethics in all of its undertakings. a substantial part of our subsidiaries' success derives from
sound relationships with the community and mutual trust and commitment.

addtech's subsidiaries strive to be attractive employers and to provide their employees with sound
personal development opportunities. in order to identify areas of improvement, we conduct for instance
employee surveys that then form the basis of skills development and business acumen in the group.
addtech knows the importance of safeguarding our most important resource - our staff. addtech's code of
conduct acts as a compass for each employee and our suppliers are encouraged to work in line with it.


added environmental value
the subsidiaries work actively with finding energy efficient solutions for our customers. around half of the
electricity used in the group comes from renewable sources. our goal is to constantly increase this
proportion. the group's companies are primarily engaged in technology trading, so the operations have a
limited direct impact on the environment. we continually work with improvement measures in the areas
where we ourselves can make a difference. our indirect environmental impact rests with our suppliers.
we hope that supplier surveys will provide a better overview of how our suppliers work with csr matters
and encourage them to change for the better.

the addtech group's environmental policy is part of our code of conduct, and expresses our intention to
shoulder our part of the responsibility of improving the environment and working to promote lasting
sustainable development. we work proactively to continually reduce the group's direct and indirect
environmental impact. ecocycle thinking and conservation of natural resources must form an important
starting point for the group's business operations. important decisions shall take due account of
environmental consequences in order to create long-term value for the group's customers, employees,
shareholders and society at large. environmental activities shall be conducted within the scope of our
business concept and be closely integrated into operational activities. this implies that in the long term the
whole lifecycle of the products and services we provide shall be taken into account. we can maintain a
holistic view of environmental issues through a high level of competence among our employees and by
constantly developing our knowledge of environmental consequences.




                                                     3

environmental conservation measures shall be implemented to the extent they are technically feasible,
reasonable in terms of business economics and environmentally justified. suppliers are encouraged to
operate in line with our environmental policy. suppliers shall also be familiar with and comply with
requirements defined by national legislation, statutes and industry standards. suppliers shall as a
minimum requirement operate a secure system for management of hazardous materials and waste.
report content and boundaries

report content and boundaries
the sustainability report refers to the 2015/2016 financial year, with comparative data from the 2014/2015
financial year. unless otherwise indicated, the report encompasses the operations of the group as a
whole.

during the 2015/2016 financial year addtech’s shareholdings in addlife were distributed through an ipo
on nasdaq stockholm. as a consequence, all data in this report refer to continuing operations, with
retroactivity for the 2014/2015 financial year.

the following sections provide an account of addtech’s sustainability work from different stakeholder
perspectives, with results for the group being presented in the form of relevant indicators and key ratios.
unless otherwise indicated, the figures are accumulated values for 2015/2016 from the group’s more than
120 companies. ten acquisitions were implemented during the year, affecting the outcomes for the
environmental and work environment indicator data reported, compared to the preceding year.
acquisitions constitute a central part of addtech’s growth strategy and are therefore expected to continue
to affect several areas in the sustainability report in the years ahead. the measured values presented
have not been adjusted to compensate for the increased number of companies; instead they constitute
the actual figures for the group.

addtech’s corporate structure and operations, with more than 120 operating companies, is a challenge
when it comes to achieving rapid results in sustainability work, and many units will introduce completely
or partly new processes. this work paves the way for adding further value, for example through more
attractive offers to customers, larger cost cuts, and improved work on quality and hr. the measurement
data presented in this sustainability report are based as far as possible on actual measured values from
the group’s companies, or from the group’s suppliers. in cases where the group’s companies or suppliers
have been unable to obtain actual figures, reasonable estimates based on available calculation tools and
models were made.

one of addtech’s goals for its sustainability work is to continually improve the accuracy of the
measurement data obtained from the group’s companies, and from our suppliers.
our stakeholders

our stakeholders
addtech has identified five important stakeholder groups for the group: customers, suppliers, employees,
shareholders and the community. addtech strives to maintain an open dialogue with the group's
stakeholders on how the operations are conducted, and to explain priorities, decisions and the results
achieved. addtech considers this to be fundamental to the group's ability to focus on the right issues in its
sustainability work.

information on the major sustainability issues is communicated to stakeholders mainly via the
sustainability report. dialogue with stakeholders is conducted partly at group level, but also by group
companies to a substantial extent. the decentralised organisation with autonomous subsidiaries that work
closely with its customers and suppliers creates a natural and continuous dialogue. following dialogue with
the group's stakeholders, group management, in consultation with the board of directors, decides on
which sustainability issues are of major importance to the group and on group-wide working methods and
targets.

to ensure that addtech is working and reporting on the areas of most importance to operations and
stakeholders both an internal and external stakeholder analysis has been conducted. the internal
stakeholders represented addtech's four business areas and the external stakeholders comprised key
customers and major shareholders. the dialogue with stakeholders showed that they value addtech's
heightened engagement in sustainability matters. based on the stakeholder analysis, addtech prepared a
communication and action plan for how the company is to establish the work more firmly in the group,
and produced information material about what the sustainability work involves. the latter is used both
internally and externally.



                                                     4

the results of the stakeholder analysis showed that the matters with the highest priority were business
ethics, occupational environment, energy consumption and earnings trend. during this financial year,
addtech continued to work on these areas.




the table "economic value generated and distributed" illustrates how the value generated by the group's
operations has grown and been distributed to various stakeholder groups. during the year, addtech did
not receive any substantial financial support from the public sector.




economic value generated and distributed

sekm                                                       stakeholder          2014/2015       2013/2014
income                                                     customers                 6,155           5,719
economic value generated                                                             6,155           5,719
manufacturing costs                                        suppliers                 4,506           4,132
salaries and remuneration*                                 employees                 1,206           1,156
payments to providers of capital                           lenders                     22                 24
payments to providers of capital                           shareholders               217             200
payments to governments                                    public sector              160             100
economic value distributed                                                           6,111           5,612
remaining in company                                                                   44             107

* total salaries and other remuneration consists of salaries and pensions for employees, including amounts
paid to the public sector (payroll taxes, social security contributions, etc.) on behalf of the employees.
shareholders

shareholders
addtech strives to generate an attractive return and growth in value for investors in addtech shares.
dialogue with shareholders is mainly conducted at the agm and through the group's investor relations
function.

more information about addtech's ownership structure is available in the 2015/2016 annual report.

read more about addtech from an investor point of view on addtech's website.
added economic value

added economic value
addtech's overall objective is to be the leader in value-adding technology trading by being the most the
most competent and long-term partner for customers, suppliers and employees. this places demands on
the group which can be summarised as growth, profitability and development.




                                                    5

long-term profitable growth
growth is the basis of long-term profitability. without growth, the company cannot develop its operations.
for addtech, growth is thus a primary fundamental requirement for securing our survival in the long term.

growth in the group is measured as earnings growth, or the earnings expansion target. this is a long-
term target measured over a business cycle, in which period average annual earnings growth shall be 15
percent. growth is achieved through strategic efforts to focus on expansive markets, concentrated on
leading suppliers and a constant customer focus. the profitability target for each subsidiary is a minimum
of 45 percent, measured using the relationship between operating profit (p) and working capital (wc). the
p/wc model encourages high operating profit and low levels of tied-up capital. when combined with the
growth target of 15 percent, this enables self-funded long‐term profitable growth. constant development
is required to generate earnings growth and high profitability.

long‐term profitable growth means long-term sustainability and is important not just for addtech as a
group and for our employees; sustainability also creates long‐term value for shareholders. addtech's
share price performance and dividend trend for its shareholders is one more way in which the company
adds value.
added social value

added social value
the key to addtech's further sustainable development and success is in the long-term relationships we
have built up with our employees, customers and suppliers, and we always endeavour to be a responsible
player in the community. it is important that addtech's subsidiaries set a good example in terms of being
reliable, ethical and respected employers. freedom with responsibility is a fundamental principle for
addtech. it has imbued the operations for over a hundred years. a large part of addtech's long-term
sustainability is based on that approach, and we hope for at least another hundred years of freedom with
responsibility.
employees

employees
our most important resource
addtech's employees are vital for our success. a good corporate culture makes for comfort, low
absenteeism and good relationships and low staff turnover. addtech is, and should be, a company where
work and private life can coexist. responsibility and freedom are two of addtech's core values and are
summarised as "freedom with responsibility", but never freedom without responsibility or responsibility
without freedom. addtech organises its business on the basis of decentralised responsibility for
profitability and earnings. this involves a high degree of responsibility for the subsidiaries, but with great
freedom to, for example, choose the types of suppliers to be appointed and the types of customers to
focus on. motivated, creative and decisive employees who can prioritise work tasks yet who can lift their
gaze and look ahead at addtech are fundamental to this working. in order to succeed in this, addtech
works to maintain an open and positive approach to people, capitalising on the full potential of employees,
whatever their position and level of responsibility. addtech emphasises the importance of taking account
of the distinctive character of each individual employee. it is the very differences that create the
dynamics that have made addtech successful.


addtechs code of conduct
addtech's code of conduct is a foundation stone for our sustainability work and has long been an integral
part of the operations. the group's code of conduct acts as a compass for our employees and includes
all important issues in the environment, human rights, working terms and conditions and corruption. (its
complete scope is listed below). the code is based on the un's global compact, ilo's core conventions,
and the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises, and it is aimed at our operations and those of our
suppliers. the group's code of conduct as adopted by the board applies to all companies in the group
and is available on the addtech website www.addtech.com/csr and is readily available to all our
employees on the addtech intranet.

the group complies with prevailing laws and regulations in the countries where it operates. while
subsidiaries and employees are also expected to comply with addtech's code of conduct, addtech also
strives for our suppliers to adhere to it too, even in cases where it is more far-reaching than national laws
and statutes.



                                                     6

employees
addtech aims to regularly conduct employee questionnaires and has to the date conducted three. the
questionnaire follows up addtech’s long-term and strategic hr development work, and the survey
identifies the group’s and subsidiaries’ strengths and weaknesses as an employer as well as mapping
areas for improvement. addtech has consistently achieved good results and in general has very satisfied
employees. this year’s survey demonstrated additional improvement in the work environment – largely
thanks to the introduction of more structured performance appraisals with employees.

the aim of the employee survey is to identify areas in which the subsidiaries and group currently perform
well as an employer, and identify areas of improvement at the same time. from a group perspective, the
survey enables addtech to offer support to the subsidiaries where there are common needs, while
disseminating knowledge and ideas from successful companies throughout the group.

addtech's group management encourages each managing director at each subsidiary to prepare a plan of
action based on the individual results of the company, as the subsidiaries' size and preconditions vary.
some subsidiaries have several hundred employees with a smoothly running hr department, while others
are small consisting of a handful of people. the results of the survey form the basis of long-term,
strategic staff development work in the group. addtech's ambition is to conduct annual employee surveys
in order to identify changes.




                                                   7

rate of employee turnover

 rate of employee turnover

            350
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 319


                                                                                                                                                                                                                       262
  number




            175                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                14/15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               15/16
                                                                                                                                                                   115

                                                                                                                                                         80                              80        84

                                                                                                                      44        50
                                                   35    30                                 29
                   7        11                                                    16
             0
                        wo                              wo                                 wo                                  me                                 me                              me                         to
                             me                               me                                 me                                  n<                                 n3                             n>                         ta
                                   n<                               n3                                    n>                                                                 0-                                                        l
                                                                                                                                               30                                                           50
                                              30                          0                                     50                                                                 50
                                                                                -5
                                                                                      0




during the year, employee turnover was 18 percent (13 percent). the table above provides a more
detailed picture of the group's employee turnover, by gender and age. the increase in employee turnover
primarily among men aged 30-50 is attributable to production in poland, which closed during the year.
addtech is at heart a nordic enterprise; around 85 percent of the group's employees work in one of the
nordic countries.

gender distribution

 gender distribution

            100


                                        72 73
  women %




                                                                                                                                                                                                            58
                                                                                                                                                                                                   55
            50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14/15
                                                                                                                                23                                                                                           23 25                             15/16
                                                                                                                          18                              15
                                                                  14 12                    12 12                                                    11
                  10 10
                                                                                                                                                                              7    7
             0
                       ad                     ad                       sa                            te                        pr                        in                        de                   pu                       al
                            mi                     mi                       les                           ch                        od                        ve                        sig                  rc                       le
                                 nis                    nis                                                    nic                        uc                       nt                         n                   ha                       mp
                                       tra                    tra                                                    al                        tio                      or                                             sin                      loy
                                                                                                                          se                         n                       ies                                             g                        ee
                                             tiv                    tio                                                        rv                                                                                                                          s
                                                   em                     n,                                                        ice
                                                        an                      fin                                                       s,
                                                             ag                       an                                                       su
                                                                  em                       cia                                                      pp
                                                                       en                        l                                                       or
                                                                            t                                                                                 t




the technology trading industry has historically been male dominated and this is also apparent in the
proportion of female applicants to institutes of technology in sweden in relation to male applicants.
addtech's ambition is, by being an attractive employer, to continually increase the proportion of women in
the group. the proportion of women and men in the group shall at least reflect the general gender
distribution in the industry, and the proportion of graduates from institutes of technology. addtech is in line
with the distribution in sweden's technical courses, where the proportion of female applicants and
accepted candidates is 30 percent. between the 2014/2015 and 2015/2016 financial years we see small
improvements and the group continues the long-term work with recruiting more women. key figures for
the gender breakdown between men and women in different functions at addtech are shown in the table
above.




                                                                                                                                    8

wage differences

 wage differential

                               150
  womens pay, as % of mens´s




                                                                                                                                      133

                                                                                                                                               115

                               100                      93 97                                                                                                       89
                                                                                                                                                                          97
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       89
                                                                                                           81                                                                                 84 82               83                        84 81
                                                                                  74 77                              71
                                     69 67

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14/15
                               50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              15/16



                                0
                                       ad                     ad                       sa                            te                        pr                        in                        de                  pu                       al
                                            mi                     mi                       les                           ch                        od                        ve                        sig                 rc                       le
                                                 nis                    nis                                                    nic                        uc                       nt                         n                  ha                       mp
                                                       tra                    tra                                                    al                        tio                      or                                            sin                      loy
                                                                                                                                          se                         n                       ies                                            g                        ee
                                                             tiv                    tio                                                        rv                                                                                                                         s
                                                                   em                     n,                                                        ice
                                                                        an                      fin                                                       s,
                                                                             ag                       an                                                       su
                                                                                  em                       cia                                                      pp
                                                                                       en                        l                                                       or
                                                                                            t                                                                                 t




wage differences for men and women in the group vary between different areas of position. addtech has
identified an uneven distribution in the salaries of men and women. however, it ought to be mentioned
that no account was taken of age, scope of period of work, previous experience, training or productivity.
addtech obviously strives to ensure that all employees in the group, irrespective of gender, are given
equal opportunities for remuneration for equivalent work, and is working actively to break down the old
pattern.




                                                                                                                                                    9

the apparently skewed relationship shown in the table above between women’s and men’s salaries in
production is due to the fact that the majority of the women working in production are in the nordic
countries, while a large proportion of the men are employed in countries as poland and china with lower
salary levels.

permanent employees

 permanent employees

            150




            100   98    98             96     95
  percent




                                                                                  76                       14/15
                                                                                         68                15/16

            50




                                                                    2   2
             0
                  permanent     full-time employees      contract employees   full-time contract
                  employees                                                       employees




permanent employees make up the majority of the group's workforce. contracted employees are
primarily appointed to replace ordinary employees in the event of illness or other leave. providing secure
employment is not only a work environment issue but also important in order to have a business
continuity and to build long-term relationships. the table above shows a breakdown of permanent and
contracted employees.

performance appraisal

 number of employees who have regular performance appraisal dialogues

            100




                                  67
                                                               61
  percent




                                                                                                   14/15
            50                                                                                     15/16




             0
                                       performance appraisal




dialogue with the group's employees takes place at each company in the group, for example in
connection with the annual performance appraisal. addtech's development and competitiveness are
strongly linked to the skills development and wellbeing of its employees. the group companies strive to
be attractive employers that offer our employees solid personal development opportunities.

one ambition in the group is that all employees should have a personal performance appraisal meeting
with their immediate manager each year. an important part of the performance appraisal is to identify
ways of improving the expertise and wellbeing of the employee. another is to increase contentment and
job satisfaction in the workplace.




                                                         10

over the coming year, addtech will continue to review the procedures and tools that are available to
group companies, in order to increase the proportion of performance appraisals conducted. special
efforts are made for newly acquired companies.

hours of training

 hours of training

                 15


                      11.3
                                                                         10.7
  no. of hours




                 10          9.7                                                                      9.5      9.3
                                                                                    8.8
                                                                                                                                                                                         8.3
                                              7.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6.4
                                                         6
                                                                                                                                                                                                              5.3                                                          14/15
                 5                                                                                                                                                                             4.4
                                                                                                                                                                     3.5                                            3.7                                                    15/16
                                                                                                                                           3.4
                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                    2.2


                 0
                             ad                      ad                         sa                             te                         pr                        in                         de                   pu                       al
                                  mi                         mi                       les                           ch                         od                        ve                         sig                  rc                       le
                                       nis                        nis                                                    nic                         uc                       nt                          n                   ha                       mp
                                                                                                                               al                         tio                      or                                              sin                      loy
                                             tra                        tra                                                                                     n                       ies                                              g
                                                   tiv                        tio                                                   se                                                                                                                            ee
                                                         em                         n,                                                    rv                                                                                                                           s
                                                                                          fin                                                  ice
                                                              an                                an                                                   s,
                                                                   ag                                cia                                                  su
                                                                         em                                                                                    pp
                                                                               en                          l                                                        or
                                                                                     t                                                                                   t



to develop the skills of our employees is to develop addtech's operations. to this end, we run our own
business school, for instance. for over a decade, the addtech business school has trained about a hundred
addtech employees each year in areas such as group corporate culture, business acumen and presentation
and negotiation techniques. the table above shows the number of training days per employee and per
employee category during the year:
the term "training" is defined as:


  all types of professional courses and training

  paid leave granted to employees by the company for training

  external training paid for wholly or partly by the company

  training on special topics such as health and safety

  training at suppliers


direct instructions by a manager in the workplace are not included.




                                                                                                                                                 11

health and safety

 health and safety

           40

                  34


           30               29
  number




                                                                                                        14/15
           20                                                                                           15/16




           10
                                                         7
                                               6


                                                                           0             0
           0
                injuries reported          work-related illness             fatalities



health and safety forms a priority area for addtech. the group has a zero vision for work-related accidents,
illnesses and incidents, and an ambition to focus constantly on promoting better health and wellbeing
among our employees. in addtech's various production-based units, there are potential risks of work-related
illnesses and accidents. however, there are also risks of accidents in the sales process, for example during
travel to and from customers and when visiting to customers' factories or other facilities. the health and
safety table provides an overview of addtech's results in this area. no work‐related fatalities occurred during
the year.



bribery and corruption
as a technology trading group, addtech cannot ignore the possibility of our employees being subjected to
bribery, particularly in connection with purchases in countries where corruption is generally more
extensive. the trend in corruption in various countries where addtech operates is monitored constantly,
for example via the transparency international website (www.transparency.org). business ethics has
always been high on the group's agenda and are an issue that is constantly addressed in, for instance,
the group's own business school. the group has zero tolerance towards corruption, and the fact that no
cases of corruption occurred during the year (0) is thus in line with our expectations.
customers

customers
contact with our customers is handled through addtech's subsidiaries. more rigorous sustainability
demands from our customers are emerging more and more clearly. for instance, our customers are
starting to perform csr screening on their suppliers - that is, addtech group subsidiaries. in order to
continue to be a valuable link between manufacturer and user, addtech must progress in line with the
heightened demand and be able to present its' sustainability work in a satisfying way.

the group's subsidiaries are active in a host of different markets and a variety of industries; this involves
different types of customer requirements. however, it may be said in general terms that many of the
requirements relate to safety in workplaces and the environment. the requirements for resource
consumption, energy efficiency and environmental impact, however, has increased in recent years, which
in turn means increased demands on addtech's companies to provide solutions and products that meet
these requirements.

at some of the group's companies, enquiries relating to reach (the eu's regulation on the registration,
evaluation, authorisation & restriction of chemicals) are also common. furthermore, demands that
addtech and eventually our own subcontractors comply with international conventions on human rights
are also expressed.
suppliers




                                                       12

suppliers

suppliers
the majority of the sales generated by addtech companies comes from the resale of products and
solutions of global and market‐leading suppliers. addtech has a large number of suppliers worldwide and
more than 70% of the group's purchases are from suppliers outside the nordics in europe, the us and
asia. relationships with our suppliers are often longstanding and feature close collaboration on how the
supplier's products can be used in a variety of customer applications. many suppliers have worked with
addtech subsidiaries for decades. however, there is always a certain amount of supplier turnover, and
addtech is constantly on the hunt for new partners and agency companies that can complement or boost
our existing business. our close relationship with suppliers is highly positive in terms of both the
operations and csr. we continually work with deepening these relationships and ensuring that our
suppliers meet a good requirement level in relation to their employees and the environment.

as parts of a technology trading group with operations in a large number of countries, business ethics
risks pose a potential threat to the group's companies. addtech's goal in terms of linking the issue of
responsibility to our suppliers is clear. in 2010/2011, the group's code of conduct was updated and now
expressly describes the group's expectations as to how suppliers should act in relation to both the
environment and their employees. the code is available at www.addtech.com/csr.

the good reputation of addtech and our subsidiaries is one of our strongest competitive assets. any
infringements of addtech policy on human rights and occupational conditions would therefore have a
considerable detrimental impact on stakeholder confidence. no incidents of infringements of human rights
were reported either in 2014/2015 or earlier years.

supplier survey
addtech works continuously on deepening supplier relationships and ensuring that they meet a good level
of requirements in relation to their employees and the environment. as part of these efforts, at the end of
2011/2012 addtech conducted its first supplier survey.the analysis of the suppliers' sustainability and
relationship to addtech’s code of conduct has continued during the year and efforts to obtain more
responses continue. no significant inadequacies have emerged among the suppliers to date. during the
year more companies participated in the supplier evaluation and additional companies will be channelled
into this evaluation during the financial year 2016/2017.

the objective of supplier surveys is to ensure that addtech works with responsible suppliers. addtech's
ambition is to raise expectations on suppliers and emphasise the importance of suppliers assuming social
and environmental responsibility so that the entire value chain works towards the same objective.
society

society
addtech's most important positive impact on society lies in our contribution to economic and social growth
in the form of jobs and taxpayers, as well as the group's own tax payments. we also strive for our
products to bring efficiency improvements and to cut energy consumption for our customers.

in line with the addtech philosophy of decentralised responsibility, no group-wide projects connected to
social commitment are conducted apart from our subsidiaries working towards a sustainable technological
development. the subsidiaries are responsible for taking into account their surroundings and maintaining
a good dialogue with the surrounding society.
added environmental value




                                                    13

added environmental value

added environmental value
a strong intention to safeguard the environment forms part of addtech's business strategy. the aim is to
minimise addtech's impact on the environment by working to reduce waste, increase the share of
renewable energy and use natural resources more efficiently and cautiously. addtech's main operations
consist today of technology sales and distribution in around 30 countries. the proportion of group
companies which conduct their own production comprising the use of raw materials, chemicals and fossil
fuels increased during the year. however, production represents only a limited proportion of the group's
operations. so, addtech's main direct impact on climate is from the transportation of finished goods, and
business travel. the majority of group purchases is from suppliers outside the nordics in europe, the us
and asia, necessitating a high transport volume. the aggregated environmental impact of the products
provided by our companies also includes production operations at our suppliers and eventually also how
customers use the products. we consequently seek to take the entire lifecycle of our operations into
account in the group's constant improvement work. we are also constantly working to develop more
sustainable products and solutions that help our customers reduce their environmental impact. in this
way, we can make a difference on a larger scale.

addtech's major environmental aspects may be summarised as follows:


  transport of goods and employees

  use/consumption of energy, raw materials and chemicals

  emissions and waste from production


the group's emission‐related risks are mainly associated with carbon dioxide emissions. such emissions
are caused primarily through combustion of fossil fuels in the group's own operations, chiefly through the
transport of goods and employees, and also indirectly through procurement of electricity generated by the
combustion of fossil fuels.

the group has not, either during the year or in previous years, been subject to any fines relating to
breaches of environmental legislation.


nearly half of the electricity used in the group comes from renewable sources. ambitious work is underway to
constantly increase that share.

addtech's environmental policy
the addtech group's environmental policy, which is part of our code of conduct, expresses our intention
to shoulder our part of the responsibility of improving the environment and working to promote lasting
sustainable development. environmental activities shall be conducted within the scope of our business
concept and be closely integrated into operational activities. environmental measures shall be
implemented to the extent they are technically feasible, reasonable from a business economic viewpoint
and environmentally justified. responsibility for ongoing environmental work rests with each individual
company in the group. the environmental policy involves the addtech companies working according to
the following points:


  addtech shall minimise the occurrence of waste and prevent any risks of emissions

  environmental performance shall be taken into account in the choice of products and transport methods

  addtech shall constantly encourage its employees and suppliers to perform open and committed
  environmental work

  addtech's environmental work shall lead to constant improvements, and prevailing legal requirements
  are minimum requirements for the operations




                                                     14

addtech's energy consumption
during the year, the group's total energy consumption declined to 19.5 gwh (20.8 gwh). out of the
energy consumption, electricity consumption accounts for 72 percent (69) comprises electricity and 28
percent (31) district heating. out of the total energy, 47 percent (42) came from renewable sources, an
increase of 5 percentage points (-5).

in relation to sales, the proportion of renewable energy sources decreased by 2 percent (-16), while the
proportion of non-renewable sources decreased by 19 percent. one of addtech’s overarching goals is to
reduce energy consumption over time relative to our sales and to strive to continuously increase the
proportion of renewable-source energy used in its operations. the table displays energy consumption
development at addtech.


 energy consumption

        30                                                                                                            30


        25                                                                                                            20

                                                                                                        20.8
        20                                                                                                     19.5   10
  gwh




        15                                                                                                            0




                                                                                                                            %
                                                                                            12
                                                                                                 10.4
        10                                                                 8.8   9.1                                  -10
                    6.8       7   7.4
              6.4
        5                                                4.1                                                          -20
                                           2.4   2.4            3.1

        0                                                                                                             -30
             electricity   electricity-    district     district           total -           total -     total
                 -            non-         heating,     heating,         renewable            non-      energy
             renewable      renewable     renewable      non-             sources          renewable
              sources*       sources      sources**    renewable                            sources
                                                        sources



                                            14/15      15/16          related to sales %



the figures in the orange fields above the bar charts show the change in relation to group sales.
* solar energy, wind power and hydropower
** biofuel, waste heat, waste (70 percent renewable)




                                                               15

climate impact
addtech's impact on the climate principally comprises carbon dioxide emissions. combustion of fossil fuels
also produces emissions of other greenhouse gases, but addtech has concluded that carbon dioxide
emissions represent the biggest threat from the group's operations.

in the calculation of carbon dioxide emissions arising from electricity generation, the calculation was
based on nordic electricity generation, where 1 kwh is estimated to generate 0.1 kg co2.

in addition to emissions arising from the internal use of fossil fuels and electricity, carbon dioxide
emissions are also generated by various kinds of transport, including transport of materials and products,
as well as employee travel. addtech reports carbon dioxide emissions for employee travel and for
materials and product transport according to the table below, which shows the group's co2 emissions.


 co2 emission

            20,000                                                                                            20




            15,000                                                                                            10

                                                                                              12,190 12,333
  ton co2




                                                                                                                    %
            10,000                                                                                            0



                                      5,783   5,635
             5000                                                                                             -10
                                                        2,762   3,046
                             1,698                                            2,078   1,954
                     1,566

                0                                                                                             -20
                     company's       freight**, in    freight**, out           energy            total
                      vechiles*                                            consumption***



                                              14/15   15/16        related to sales %



*based on reported number of kilometres driven and the average emission of co2/km from the group's
vehicle fleet.
**based on reports from transport providers, plus own calculations using ecotransit.org.
***based on nordic electricity generation, where 1 kwh is estimated to generate 0.1 kg co2.
the way forward

the way forward
the basis of sustainable long-term growth for addtech lies in the balance between economic and social
requirements with account taken of long-term environmental aspects. addtech must therefore actively
address new issues, opportunities and problem situations in order to enable positive change and progress.
addtech 's vision is to be the leader in value-creating technology trading. being the leader involves
working to influence the trend in the industry and actively selecting the route to be taken by the company
- not being propelled along by other forces. the future for addtech lies is in being a part of pursuing a
sustainable technological development.

gri-index




                                                          16

gri-index

gri index
each year, the addtech group reports on its csr work by producing a sustainability report that follows the
guidelines of the global reporting initiatives (gri). this index shows which questions that have been
answered and where you can find the answers. source ar = annual report, sr = sustainability report.
the report complies with the guidelines of the global reporting initiative (gri), application level c.

      standard disclosures                                                             source page


1     strategy & analysis

1.1   statement from ceo about vision and strategy                                     ar    2-3

2     organisational profile

2.1   name of the organisation                                                         ar    97

2.2   primary brands, products, and/or services                                        ar    8-9

2.3   operational structure of the organisation                                        ar    7

2.4   location of organisation's headquarters                                          ar    97

2.5   countries where the organisation operates                                        ar    8-9, 11

2.6   nature of ownership and legal form                                               ar    24, 97

2.7   markets served                                                                   ar    8-9, 11

2.8   scale of the reporting organisation                                              ar    1

2.9   significant changes during the reporting period                                  ar    14

2.10 awards received in the reporting period                                                 not applicable

3     report parameters

      report profile

3.1   reporting period                                                                 sr    2-4

3.2   date of most recent report                                                       sr    1

3.3   reporting cycle                                                                  sr    4

3.4   contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents                 ar    97

      report content and boundaries

3.5   process for defining report content                                              ar    48

3.6   boundaries of the report                                                         sr    3-4

3.7   limitations on the scope or boundary of the report                               sr    3-4

3.8   basis for reporting on subsidiaries and outsourced operations                    ar,   48-58, 4
                                                                                       sr

3.10 effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the   sr    3-4
     reasons for such re-statement

      table of contents according to gri

3.12 table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in the report          sr    17-19




                                                        17

4     governance, commitments, and engagement

      governance

4.1   governance structure of the organisation                                       ar    28-39

4.2   indication on whether the chair of the highest governance body (board) is also a r   36-37
      an executive officer

4.3   information on whether the ceo is part of the highest governance body          ar    36-37

4.4   mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or        ar    103
      direction to the highest governance body or company management

4.8   internally developed statements of mission of values, codes of conduct, and    ar    12-13
      principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance

      stakeholder communication

4.14 stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation                                  sr    4

4.15 basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage      sr    4

4.16 approaches to stakeholder engagement                                            sr    4-7, 11-13

4.17 key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder dialogues and the            sr    2, 4, 11-13
     organisation's response to them

      labour practices and decent work performance indicators*

      employees - employment

la1 total workforce                                                                  ar    68

la2 rate of employee turnover                                                        sr    8

la7 rates of injury and occupational diseases                                        sr    12

      employees - training and education

la10 average hours of training                                                       sr    11

la12 percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career                sr    10
      development reviews

      diversity and equal opportunity

la13 composition of governance bodies based on indicators of diversity               ar    36-37

la14 ratio of basic salary of men to women                                           sr    9

      economic performance indicators*

      economic performance

ec1 economic value generated and distributed                                         sr    5

ec4 financial assistance received from public sector                                 sr    5


      environmental performance indicators*

      energy

en4 indirect energy consumption by primary source                                    sr    15




                                                       18

     compliance

en28 compliance with environmental laws and regulations                        sr   13-14


     emissions, effluence and waste

en29 environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and        sr   16
     transporting members of the workforce


     social performance indicators*

     corruption

s04 actions taken in response to incidents of corruption                       sr   12


     product responsibility performance indicators*

     compliance

s04 compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of   sr   13-14
    products and services



* the outcome of these perfomance indiciators is reported on www.addtech.com




                                                      19
