sustainability report
       2015




              1 5 0 1 y a m a t o r o a d
    b o c a     r a t o n , f l o r i d a 3 3 4 3 1


                        april 2015

table of contents
a message from our ceo, naren gursahaney.......................................................................3

a message from our vp of environmental, health & safety, jay small....................................3

our vision and values.........................................................................................................4

2015 goals........................................................................................................................5

environmental....................................................................................................................5

safety................................................................................................................................6

motor vehicle/fleet operations..........................................................................................7

wellness............................................................................................................................8

eh&s management system and compliance.......................................................................9

education and training.....................................................................................................10

leadership.......................................................................................................................11

communications...............................................................................................................12




                                                                                                                                   page 2

a message from our ceo, naren gursahaney
the adt corporation has one of the most trusted and well-known brands in
the security industry. we currently serve nearly seven million residential and
business customers, making us the largest company of our kind in both the
united states and canada. we deliver an integrated customer experience by
maintaining the industry’s largest sales, installation and service field force
and most robust monitoring network, all backed by the support of over 17,000
employees. we have a broad and pioneering set of products and services—from
interactive home and business solutions to home health services. these are
all designed to meet a range of customer needs for today’s active and mobile
lifestyles.

at adt, sustainability and corporate social responsibility are fundamental to our
success. we believe that this approach to sustainability helps create a long term
shared value for our customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders and the
communities where we live and work. through our initiatives and innovations, adt strives to deliver a
positive environmental footprint and work environment. adt’s “blueprint for sustainability” includes programs
which positively impact customers, employees and the environment. some of these are described in the pages
that follow.




a message from our vp of environmental, health & safety,
jay small
                                since becoming a public company in october 2012, we have made significant
                                investments and improvements in our environmental, health and safety (eh&s)
                                programs. in this short period of time, we have committed resources and put
                                in place programs to improve performance. as described in this report, the
                                programs are yielding positive results. we have fewer injuries per hundred
                                employees, we are reducing our impact on the environment.

                                 at adt, we take the safety of our team members and the environment seriously.
                                 in fact, we strive to work in an environment that is free from recognized hazards
and at the same time create minimal negative impact on the environment. we believe that all injuries are
preventable and that everyone should go home from work in the same condition, or better, then when they came
to work. as a company, we’ve developed and implemented policies and processes that will enable us to reduce
our impact on the environment. eh&s goals and objectives have been developed and placed in managers’ annual
performance reviews. each employee is expected to follow all eh&s rules and requirements as well as identify or
correct unsafe actions, behaviors, or situations. this is necessary if adt is going to meet its objectives.

i hope you find the information in this report valuable and would welcome any feedback you may have. at adt,
environment, health & safety matters.




                                                                                                   page 3

our vision and values
since our establishment as an independent public company
in october 2012, adt has built a foundation for a strong
environmental, health & safety culture. on the forefront of this
effort is our eh&s vision and values.

our vision is clear: to build a culture that promotes safe
behaviors on each task, every day, and results in:
1. zero incidents
2. enhanced employee wellness
3. minimized environmental impact

we recognized that for us to achieve this vision, we need to
incorporate our eh&s values focused on people, prevention
and accountability, into our business and the decisions we
make each day. our eh&s values are:

• people: we value the health and safety of 		
  our team members and customers above
  all else
  -    we actively champion safe behaviors for our
		     team members
  -    we provide our team members with the
		     necessary knowledge, training and tools to 		
		     model safe behaviors
  -    we promote a culture of wellness and encourage
		     healthy habits at work and home

• prevention: we believe all occupational injuries
  and illnesses, as well as environmental incidents
  are preventable
  -   we design work processes that allow us to perform our jobs in the safest and most sustainable way
		    possible, while delivering the highest quality services to our customers
  -   we utilize a comprehensive management system encompassing 15 elements around leadership,
		    training and accountability that will enable us to achieve our goals and objectives

• accountability: we comply with all applicable environment, health and safety requirements
  -  we are responsible for our own safety as well as the safety of our team members
  -  we empower our team members to intervene to prevent injuries and environmental incidents
  -  we are accountable for proactive prevention initiatives as well as performance




                                                                                                 page 4

2015 goals
environmental
                      fleet green                            5% of fleet         100% of            *50%
      0 spills       house gasses       building green     alternative fuel      e-waste         reduction
    & releases           co2-e          house gasses              or           submitted for      of waste
                     (metric tons)             5%               hybrid           re-use/         to landfill
                           5%                                  vehicles          recycle


since becoming a stand-alone company in october 2012, adt has committed significant resources to reduce
our impact on the environment. we have not experienced any reportable spills or releases to the environment.
in addition, during 2014 adt allocated approximately $870,000 us to reduce building greenhouse gasses at
our largest locations. these locations, before the efforts, accounted for approximately 54% of our total building
greenhouse gases. efficiency improvements are being made in the lighting, air handling and computer operations
at these eight locations. these improvements alone are expected to save 5.6m kilowatt hours and 3837 metric
tons of co2. we estimate that this will account for about a 4% reduction of our total greenhouse gas production.

adt has implemented programs to ensure ongoing compliance with environmental
regulations and to reduce waste. these include a waste recycling/diversion program
at all of our call centers and many of our office locations. since starting the recycling
effort we have seen our waste diversion percentage climb from 5% in 2012 to almost
30% in 2014. we have also developed a plan that will allow us to increase our
percentage of alternate fuel and hybrid vehicles in order to achieve our 2015 fleet
greenhouse gas goals.

programs that address our largest waste streams, electronic scrap and batteries
have been put in place. our program requires 100% recycling of all electronic scrap
from all of our field offices as well as requiring the return of all used batteries to
our field offices. electronic scrap and battery disposal are managed through the
use of adt-approved vendors.

as part of our environmental communications program, adt has developed and
circulated environmental absolutes, which communicate four key environmental
requirements to all employees. these absolutes are posted in all field offices.

we have also been investigating and implementing ways to reduce greenhouse
gasses from our fleet. since 2012, we have been purchasing more fuel efficient
vehicles and our average fleet miles per gallon have seen an improvement of approximately 5.3%.
this is a savings of over 300,000 gallons of fuel annually, or preventing over 3,150 metric tons of carbon dioxide
from entering the atmosphere. also, as of december 2014, approximately 6% of our fleet is capable of running
on alternative fuels, or are hybrid vehicles. we currently have plans to order two vans by the end of fiscal year
2015 which will run on compressed natural gas. additional hybrid vehicles will be purchased as well in an effort
to phase out the 74 gas-only powered vehicles used by our patrol group. assuming the hybrid vehicles meet our
requirements, we will order additional vehicles during the following replacement cycle.




                                                                                                      page 5

safety

                                        recordable         lost time          lost time
                       0 serious         injuries           injuries            days
   0 fatalities         injuries           66%                 66%               73%




adt has identified three-year safety goals based on the 2012 baseline designed to protect our most valuable
resource - our team members. while we are not yet at the end of the three year period, we have seen significant
improvements in all of our metrics.


   recordable         lost time            injury
    injuries           injuries           severity
       14%                21%                58%




our proactive prevention programs that have helped us achieve these reductions
include the investment of over $1,000,000 us to ensure our team members have
the requisite personal protective equipment (ppe) and training. this included the
purchase and distribution of ppe bags to all field and sales employees. additionally,
we have trained our field team to take a few minutes prior to the beginning of each
job to identify and control potential hazards. it is these efforts and programs that
are changing the safety culture and are helping to yield quantifiable results. we
have seen year-over-year improvements in all three safety metrics. as of the end
of fiscal year 2014, we have achieved a 14% reduction in our total recordable
incident rate from our 2012 baseline, a 21% reduction in our lost time injury rate and a
reduction in the number of days which were lost during the same period by 52%. we have reduced our lost
day severity rate by 55%. we have not experienced any work related fatalities and our serious injuries have been
reduced by 20% from the 2012 baseline.

in addition, adt has developed nine safety absolutes which are posted in every office and carried by all adt field
employees as part of their safety equipment. these absolutes are associated with nine safe behaviors that, when
followed, reduce the potential of serious injuries or fatalities.

specific programs have been implemented to address our most common hazards and risks and our most significant
types of injuries. these include:
• movesmart@ training for all field employees. this is an instructor led, interactive training course. movesmart
    transfers high-level mental and physical tools people need to dramatically reduce injuries and to take personal
    control of their own safety. approximately 2600 field technicians and managers have been trained to date and
    we have seen a 20% reduction in our non-motor vehicle sprains & strains.
• bulli ray@ - dog bite prevention training for field technicians and sales team members
• implementation of a jobsite observation process for managers, which includes visiting team members while
    they are on a job and having a conversation about what was observed. this may include such positive
    items as the appropriate completion of a job hazard analysis, proper use of ppe, or, in some situations, where
    concerns are identified, providing coaching and corrective feedback to ensure that expectations will be met in
    the future to prevent them from being injured.
• pre job planning/hazard identification using job hazard analysis
• monthly incident review meetings
• distribution of safety and environmental alerts



                                                                                                     page 6

motor vehicle/fleet operations

                    percent of fleet
   collisions per                       injuries per
                    in motor vehicle
   million miles                        million miles
                       collisions
         58%                                  73%
                           65%



adt operates a fleet of approximately 4500 vehicles in the u.s. and canada. programs have been put in place
to address both the hazards associated with driving the vehicles and the emissions they produce. as collisions
involving motor vehicles are one of our top causes of injuries, special programs have been put in place to address
the issues. these programs include mandatory driver safety training and our motor vehicle safety policy and
standard, which includes signing the adt driver code of conduct and compliance with our motor vehicle safety
absolutes. additionally, we are installing reflective tape on the rear of the vehicles to increase visibility and help
reduce rear-end collisions. these programs are yielding results as we have seen significant improvements from our
2012 baseline year.

specifically, our injuries per million miles driven have been reduced by 51%, collisions per million miles have
been reduced by 28% and the percent of fleet vehicles involved in a collision are down by 32%. adt is constantly
reviewing our fleet safety initiatives in order to determine if there are other programs that could be implemented to
help us prevent motor vehicle incidents and injuries.

the installation of drive cam cameras in 126 vehicles in two of our businesses have helped adt identify unsafe
actions and risky behavior. the cameras record triggering events that allow us to analyze these events for at-risk
behaviors and address them proactively, rather than reacting after a motor vehicle collision. plans are underway to
expand the program into targeted installation and service vehicles.

adt is also a member of the network of employers for traffic safety (nets). we benchmark our programs and the
three fleet metrics mentioned above, to determine if there are programs that have been effective at other companies
that could be implemented within adt.




                                                                                                     page 7

wellness
     personal                                              achieve
                                           100%
      health            100%                           wellness council
                                      local wellness
   assessment        tobacco free                        of america
                                         programs
      (pha)            facilities                        (welcoa)
                                       implemented
   participation                                           industry
       75%                                                  award


recognizing that our employees are our most valuable asset, adt has implemented a comprehensive wellness
program for both employees and their families. this program, known as healthy rewards, offers cash rewards, up
to $400 per year for employees and $200 per year for spouses/domestic partners, upon completion of an initial
health assessment and wellness-related activities. these activities include biometric screening and participation
in programs which may improve health. we have also implemented a tobacco-free policy at all of our locations. in
addition, there are programs to assist in stress management, weight control, sleep issues, and health improvement.
depending on the location and size, some of adt’s sites have fitness centers, medical clinics, and offer local
activities related to wellness.

participation levels continue to increase in our wellness programs. in 2014, we achieved over 50% of our employees
participating in the health assessment. employees were also engaged in a variety of wellness programs including
biometric screenings, coaching, challenge, and local activities as part of our healthy rewards program. we expect
that this will allow us to reach our goal of a 60% participation rate in the health assessment by the end of 2015.




                                                                                                   page 8

eh&s management system and compliance
adt’s eh&s management system policy was published shortly after we became
a public company in october 2012. the policy consists of 15 elements, which
describe requirements necessary to meet our eh&s vision and values.

adt’s eh&s management system provides a framework to put our vision and
values into practice by clearly stating expectations for compliance, accountability,
sustainability and continuous improvement. the success of each of these
elements is dependent on the implementation of a comprehensive approach
throughout north america. senior management must clearly communicate what
is expected by every manager and employee, and then we empower employees
to not only suggest and implement programs, but also to intervene in order to
prevent injuries. this helps us to achieve our goals and reach our vision.

the management system policy is applied across north america and addresses
the specific requirements to prevent injuries to our team members, environmental
incidents, and achieve our short-term goals and ultimately, our vision.




                       operations
  0 enforcement        implement                          subcontractors
                                         ehs audits
     actions          ehsms and                             meet adt
                                            with
  0 regulatory/     complete annual                          minimum
                                        passing score
   permit non-      self-assessment                        requirements
                                            100%
   compliance             100%                                100%


since october 2012, adt has received only 14 regulatory inspections and reviews
in canada and the united states combined, resulting in fines and penalties
totaling just $800 us. sites also perform their own eh&s self-assessments as
required in the eh&s management system policy. these internal audits evaluate
the effectiveness of the site’s implementation of the adt eh&s policies, standards
and any internally-developed programs to minimize hazards and risks. the results
of these self-assessments are entered into the adt eh&s reporting system, and
compliance gaps are tracked to closure to prevent recurrence and mitigate eh&s impacts at the site. all sites were
required to have their self-assessments completed by the end of the first quarter fiscal year 2015.

eh&s management system and compliance audits are also being conducted by a team of two to three trained
auditors from the corporate eh&s staff. to date, 16 area audits have been completed. the auditors have visited
over 30 sales and service offices, and interviewed over 300 employees and 150 managers. in addition, over
170 installation and service job sites were visited. the audits evaluate compliance with regulatory and adt
requirements, and compliance with our management system. gaps in compliance require managers to develop
specific corrective action plans which are tracked to closure in adt’s eh&s information system (enablon).
in 2015, we will audit another 39 sales and services offices.

the eh&s department helps individual locations comply with the requirements and prepare for the audits through
a comprehensive support program that includes eh&s guidance documents, model programs and procedures,
checklists and training.

                                                                                                    page 9

education and training
since 2012, the adt eh&s team joined forces with the operational support group to develop a three year training
strategy. the overall focus of the strategy is to assure adt provides regulatory-required eh&s training, as well as
training for non-regulated hazards that our team members may face on a daily bases (e.g. avoiding slips, trips and
falls, dog bite prevention through bulli ray® and movesmart®).




a total of 20 safety-related curriculums were developed and rolled out for new hires to provide a sound foundation
when starting their career at adt. in addition, all team members now have access to a series of courses that can
be used as part of their annual eh&s refresher training. curriculums are specific to the job classification and type
of work that is performed rather than a generic training program. for example, the risks and hazards a customer
care associate faces on a daily basis are much different than those of an installer or service technician. our
training programs target hazards team members may face daily. whether ergonomics at a work station, ladder
work in the field, or driving to make a sales call, adt provides safety and awareness training.

the eh&s content is housed on our internal learning management system (lms) and is now available from
any adt workstation. this provides an opportunity for our workers to access any of our eh&s training programs
remotely from their pc’s or laptops. our eh&s curriculum contains over 25 courses in the united states and an
additional 25 canada-specific courses. we offer content in english and french canadian. plans are in place
to update all of our training content over the next twelve months using vendors with expertise in safety training.

our required eh&s training goes beyond the mandated courses in our lms system. for our field personnel we
offer a weekly “tool box talk” that is available either electronically through our lms or can be printed out and
distributed at the local sales and service office. our operation support team also distributes robust monthly
eh&s training and testing collateral. this training targets our installers and service technicians and is specific to
the hazards they may face while working for adt.

finally, if an adt team member does sustain a workplace injury, the incident is evaluated. if there is information
that can be shared with all of our team members to help assure they don’t sustain the same type of incident, the
eh&s department will release a “safety alert.” the alerts are meant to heighten awareness and remind team
members of corrective actions they take to help ensure the incident is not repeated.




                                                                                                         page 10

leadership
an eh&s strategy cannot be effective without the proactive support and participation of executive leadership.
adt’s eh&s council meets on a monthly basis and is chaired by our chief executive officer. the council also
includes key members of the executive leadership team and senior functional leaders. in addition to chairing the
eh&s council, the ceo provides strategic direction, establishes company-wide targets and practices, and ensures
implementation of the overall eh&s program.

the adt vice president of eh&s establishes company-wide strategies, policies and standards; oversees company-
wide implementation, audits and performance; and report results to the ceo and the nominating and governance
committee of the board of directors each quarter.

this council is not unique to the corporate headquarters. council meetings are conducted monthly within each
region and area, and these are typically led by the regional general manager and area manager. key members
of these area councils include employee representatives, field management, and sales managers. all of the
councils follow the requirements outlined in the management system’s policy which includes the communication
of minutes and tracking of action items.




                                                                                                  page 11

communications




one of the foundations necessary to achieve adt’s eh&s vision and values is a strong communications
program. we have addressed this by putting in place a multi-faceted communication program which requires
the support of management and employees. in addition to developing the eh&s branding that is used for all
produced items and correspondence, safety alerts are distributed by the corporate eh&s team and these are
discussed and posted at each location. many sites have dedicated video screens which routinely post safety
information for general dissemination. as mentioned previously, key communications have also been distributed
in the form of both safety and environmental absolutes given to all employees. these absolutes are some of the
most important requirements which must be complied with in order to reduce the likelihood of serious injury to
employees and environmental incidents. the absolutes have been printed on luggage tags, which have been
placed on the safety ppe bags.




                              for questions or comments contact
                            corporate environmental, health & safety
                                        (561) 322-7175
                                   email: pnewman@adt.com
