sustainability report
     2014 & 2015


future is in our hands




                         1

2

table of contents

    about this report                                           5
    message to stakeholders                                     6
    vision and corporate principles                             8
    company profile                                             9
    products                                                    10
    industries & sectors                                        11
    operational structure, markets and international projects   11
    significant developments during reporting period            12
    memberships                                                 14

    approach to sustainability                                  15
    corporate governance                                        15
    sustainability management                                   16
    strategic sustainability issues                             17
    sustainability goals                                        18
    dialog with stakeholders                                    19
    management systems                                          20

    our economic performance                                    21
    operational and financial indicators                        21
    economic value generated and distributed                    21
    efficient use of raw materials                              22
    investments                                                 23

    our environmental performance                               25
    energy efficiency                                           26
    solid waste management                                      27
    water management                                            28
    reuse of waste water                                        29
    climate change and emission management                      31
    environment-friendly products                               33

    our social performance                                      34
    product responsibility in value chain                       34
    customer satisfaction                                       36
    employee satisfaction and engagement                        37
    occupational health and safety                              46
    emergency management                                        47

    appendix                                                    48
    performance indicators tables                               48
    gri tables                                                  52




                                                                     3

4

about this report

this is the fifth communication of progress by ak-kim since the company became a party to the
united nations global compact (ungc) on december 13th, 2007; and it is prepared in accordance
with the ‘core’ option of g4 sustainability reporting guidelines of global reporting initiative. the
report states ak-kim’s approach to the global principles besides the company’s goals determined
within this frame.

report content
this report is developed mainly in light of the opinions and expectations of our company’s senior
management in addition to key stakeholders - employees, customers and business partners.

boundaries and limitations
unless stated as otherwise, this report covers, without any limitations and boundaries, all services
and operations of ak-kim kimya sanayi ve ticaret a.ş. performed between january 1st, 2014 and
december 31st, 2015, at the production facilities located in yalova & çerkezköy and at company
head office in istanbul. (g4-17, g4-20)

this report includes all production facilities and the head office; but excludes sub-contractors for
logistics and sub-employers from which we receive support services at production sites. (g4-21)

our next report
reporting frequency is bi-annually. our next report will be issued in 2018, covering the sustainability
performance in 2016 & 2017.




                                                                                                          5

    message to
    stakeholders



                                                  ali raif dinçkök              onur kipri
                                                      chairman                general manager

    dear stakeholders,

    ak-kim is proud to present the 5th communication of progress covering our operations
    performed within the scope of our commitment to the united nations global compact.

    we held a sustainability workshop in 2014 to set our company strategies and create a
    roadmap with the participation of our entire senior management team. in consideration of
    ak-kim’s social, economic and environmental priorities and successful implementations,
    we identified high priority aspects to manage and areas of improvement, by taking our key
    stakeholders’ priorities into account as well. we are proud to be the first chemicals company
    in turkey to have organized such a workshop.

    in addition to the best practices in place, you can also review ak-kim’s managerial approach
    on social, economic and environmental issues concerning chemical industry in this report
    where the prioritized aspects constitute the main headings.

    we continuously endeavor to ensure that all company processes, from product design to
    after-sales services, produce results protecting human health and the environment. chemical
    industry, the third largest field of export in turkish economy following automotive and textile,
    is required to focus on innovation and technology. in addition, developing markets such as
    turkey have to invest in the industry to be effective within the global economy as well. in this
    regard, as ak-kim, we value r&d activities to be able to offer innovative and sustainable
    products. upon our application to the republic of turkey ministry of science, industry and
    technology, we were granted license on october 25th, 2013 as an “r&d center”. currently
    we employ 52 researchers to develop innovative products and solutions for different sectors.

    to this end, through studies of five years, we developed high performance hollow fiber
    based ultrafiltration module specially designed for ultrafiltration process and we launched
    the product in 2015. in this project that realized with an investment of 35 million usd, ak-
    kim started the production of the high technology and high value added equipment with
    the experience the company has gained in the field of water treatment chemicals. ak-kim
    ultrafiltration module encompasses many innovative features for perfect filtration.




6

“sustainability” stands as one of the corporate values in 2015-2019 strategical roadmap of
ak-kim. we have set strategic goals regarding employee engagement, environment and
health & safety subject to a group of critical success factors and various projects.

we also aimed at creating a company environment supporting sustainable employee
development. with this inspiration, we trained and encouraged our employees to enable
them to create and develop a sustainable life cycle culture, sustainable processes, products
and services in ak-kim. furthermore, we developed policies and implementations to ensure
employee engagement for sustainable human resources. the technical and personal
development training courses provided to our employees during 2014-2015 reporting period
is approximately 25 thousand hours.

another focus for our sustainability efforts has been occupational health & safety. ak-kim
continues to improve its systems and programs to mitigate and eliminate the potential risks
of workplace accidents in the future, as well as accidents which may happen during dispatch
and delivery of our products to our customers.

we will continue growing globally, keep developing innovative products and support
sustainable development. we will always give high priority to our responsibilities within the
scope of sustainability by enhancing dialog with our stakeholders and supporting voluntary
initiatives such as the responsible care program.

one of the well established chemical companies of turkey, ak-kim is pleased to share with
you its know-how, standards and policies with a sustainable production goal. we would
appreciate your feedback and opinions about the content of this report, as they would
enable us to create more value for you.

kind regards,


ali raif dinçkök                                                       onur kipri
    chairman                                                         general manager




                                                                                                7

    vision and corporate principles
    our mission: being a dynamic solution partner developing innovative products and services, creating
    value for the industry and its stakeholders.

    our vision: becoming the largest private chemical company in turkey and a global company with
    minimum 1 billion usd turnover by 2023.

    our values:



                                    sustainability: we work in accordance with our sustainability strate-
                                    gy and principles in all our processes.

                                    business ethics: we observe our code of business conduct in our
                                    relations with our colleagues and external business partners.

                                    occupatonal health & safety: occupational health & safety
                                    always comes first in all our production activities.

                                    customer oriented: customers are always at the center of our
                                    processes; we protect their rights and create value for them.

                                    innovation: we increase the company business value through new
                                    investments, ideas, projects and products.

                                    employee engagement: we add value to our employees and en-
                                    sure engagement through new career opportunities.

                                    communication: we foster transparent, clear, open communication
                                    based on trust.

                                    entrepreneurship: we value initiative and support new ideas and
                                    being open to change.




8

company profile
established in 1977 in yalova within akkök holding organization founded in 1952 by decedent raif
dinçkök, ak-kim has gradually broadened its production activities throughout years.

today ak-kim is a global player serving customers in five continents with its broad product portfolio
including chlor- alkali and derivatives, methylamines, persulfates, peroxides, bisulfites, textile
auxiliaries, pulp & paper and water treatment chemicals, cement and concrete additives.

ak-kim uses state-of-the-art and environmentally friendly technologies in its facilities to produce
more than 500 chemical raw materials and auxiliary products with a total capacity of 600 thousand
tons.

sodium metabisulphite, ammonium persulfate, potassium persulfate, dimethylacetamide,
hydrogenperoxide, sodiumpercarbonate are amongst other chemicals that are in the product
portfolio of ak-kim. these chemicals are produced using our own technology and they are first time
ever products in turkey.




about akkök holding
the holding maintains its business activities in chemicals sector with ak-kim, aksa akrilik and
dowaksa companies, in energy sector with akenerji, sedaş and sepaş enerji within akcez and in
real estate sector with its companies akmerkez gyo, akiş gyo and akgirişim. with more than 5,000
employees, akkök holding realized a combined turnover of 3.1 billion us dollars in 2015.




                                                                     real estate


chemicals




                                           energy




                                                                                                        9

     products



                • basic chemicals




                • textile chemicals




                • pulp & paper and water treatment chemicals




                • hollow fiber based ultrafiltration modules




                • cement grinding, concrete admixtures and 		
                  construction chemicals




                • project & engineering




10

industries & sectors
• home care, personal care• tekstil, elyaf ve kompozitler
• textiles, fiber and composites
• water treatment, conditioning and disinfection
• chemical, pharmaceutical, agricultural pesticides
• pulp & paper, cardboard, cleaning paper
• construction, concrete, cement
• metal, mining, drilling
• white appliances, kitchenware, ceramic & glass




operational structure, markets and
international projects
exporting products to 65 countries in five continents, ak-kim makes both direct sales and dealer/
agency based sales. ak-kim has been exporting its know-how and technologies to foreign companies
since 2002 and rendering all services, from engineering to turnkey contracting.




                                                                                                    11

     significant developments during reporting period

     2014

     • ak-kim betaine plant was commissioned. adwan ferric iii chloride plant project was completed.
     • ak-kim phase i sodium persulfate plant was established with production capacity of 1,200 tons/year.
     • ak-kim acquired water treatment chemicals business line of dostel group within akferal organization.
     • ak-kim received level gri a approval for 2013 sustainability report and won the lacp award.


     2015
     • ak-kim acquired total shares of gizem frit, second largest enamel and ceramic frit producer in the world.
     • ultrafiltration project, one of the most significant investments of ak-kim has been completed.
     • capacity increase project was signed for adwan chlorine alkali plant previously established by ak-kim.
     • ak-kim became entitled to obtain iso 14064 greenhouse gas inventory and iso 50001: 2011 energy 		
       management system certificates.
     • ak-kim iso 27001 information security management system was put into effect.




     awards
     ak-kim was awarded with the grand prize in “r&d project market”
     ak-kim was awarded with the grand prize in “r&d project market for chemicals and chemical
     products industry” organized by turkish exporters assembly (tim) and supported by tübitak
     (the scientific and technological research council of turkey).

     the support for the event came from istanbul chemicals and chemical products exporters’
     association (ikmib), mediterranean chemicals and chemical products exporters’ association
     (akmib) partnership and tübitak. ak-kim succeeded to take part in the shortlist of 30 firms
     among a total of 120 and was awarded with the grand prize in “dyes and adhesives” category
     with its “nanotech surface protection chemical” project.




12

ak-kim chemicals 2013 sustainability report is awarded by one of the world’s most
reputable communication platforms, lacp league of american communications
professionals, at the 2013-14 vision awards annual report competition. evaluation
of the reports in sustainability category brought ak-kim 97 points out of 100. the jury
selected ak-kim’s sustainability report as the 3rd best report among all the entries and
presented with the silver award.




                                                                                           13

     memberships

        associations on economy
        board member, sectoral assembly of the union of chambers and
        commodity exchanges of turkey
        board member, sectoral assembly of istanbul chamber of industry
        board member, turkish chemical manufacturers association
        president, yalova association of industrialists
        member, istanbul chamber of commerce
        member, istanbul commodity exchange
        member, istanbul union of mine and metal exporters
        member, central anatolian exporters union
        member, federation of industrial associations
        member, yalkim organized industrial zone
        member, carbon association
        member, chemport




                associations on environment
                member, environmental working group of istanbul chamber of industry
                member, environmental working group of the turkish industry and business association
                member, environmental working group of the turkish chemical manufacturers association
                member, turkish association of chemical tanker cleaning
                member, quality association of turkey
                member, turkish marine environment protection association (deniztemiz turmepa)




          partnerships in social responsibility projects
          board member, global compact local network (2013-present)
          member, corporate social responsibility association of turkey
          member, community volunteers foundation
          member, educational volunteers foundation of turkey
          member, turkish association for people management
          member, women entrepreneurs council of yalova chamber of industry and commerce
          member, quality association of turkey




14

approach to sustainability
corporate governance
akkök holding is aware of the importance of joint and participatory approaches in shaping the future of soci-
eties. therefore, the group signed the united nations global compact in late 2007 and thus assured that it
will protect rights of its employees, contribute to the society and act in an environmental-friendly manner in all
of its operations.

having reinforced its reliable and strong image with this initiative, ak-kim group continues its commitment to
fulfill voluntary responsibilities in global and sustainable development. a board member of ak-kim represents
akkök holding in the global compact local network.

board of directors
ak-kim kimya sanayi ve ticaret a.ş. is a non-public joint stock company. ak-kim board of directors is
comprised of nine members with a gender distribution of seven male and two female members. the chairman
of the board is not a member of the executive board. ceo represents the board of directors and has
executive responsibility.

within the social scope of the responsible care, the board gives the final approval for corporate social
responsibility projects. approval and authorization of all projects and budgets related to environmental
practices is also within the responsibility of the board of directors.

in terms of economic scope, the board’s responsibility includes approving the budgets of sustainability
practices and encouraging such practices in other companies of the akkök holding. all strategic issues within
the framework of sustainability are equally adopted by the board.

committees
akkök holding has a special committee focused solely on sustainability. ak-kim has committees for sustain-
ability, environment, occupational health & safety and labor rights.

additionally, akkök ethics board was established and commissioned in 2014. the board members are di-
rectors of audit, human resources and legal affairs departments of akkök holding. human resources
directors of each company within the group are also represented at the board.

the ethics board guides the group in thorough adoption and implementation of akkök business ethics prin-
ciples as fundamental and indispensable corporate values. akkök holding companies issue monthly bulletins
and run employee surveys to raise awareness in this regard.
                                                                                                                     15

     sustainability management
     ak-kim has voluntarily committed and approved sustainability initiatives in place.

     • ak-kim is one of the first turkish companies to commit to responsible care and implement the
       program. (february 11th, 1993)
     • ak-kim is one of the pioneering turkish companies to sign the un global compact.
       (december 13th, 2007)
     • ak-kim is a member of the executive board of the global compact local network, on behalf
       of akkök holding. (2013- 2016)

     responsible care is a program primarily considering the protection of human life, environment
     and natural resources in all stages of activities and giving particular importance to this consistently.

     the idea was initially suggested by the canadian chemical producers’ association in 1984; then
     it spread all over the world and today it is implemented in more than 50 countries. responsible
     care program is a voluntary initiative for the chemical industry. it is coordinated by the turkish
     chemical manufacturers association (tksd) in our country.

     in accordance with the responsible care program, ak-kim attaches importance to protection
     of the environment and human health as well as technical safety at every stage of feasibility,
     planning, project designing, assembly, production activities, transportation, maintenance, and
     other services.




16

strategic sustainability issues
as the leading chemicals producer of turkey, ak-kim makes five-year strategic plans in line with
the mission and vision to ensure continuity of growth. accordingly, we identified our sustainability
strategies in 2014 and held a workshop to design our roadmap. strategically material issues for
our company were examined, prioritized and provided with clear boundaries in three groups:
economic, environmental and social. thus, we created the ak-kim strategic sustainability
issues matrix. (g4-18, g4-19)




                                           ak-kim materiality matrix

                                                                                                                    high

                                                        human and labor rights    emergency management
   (assessments and decisions on ak-kim)




                                                        management
                                            community                                 product responsibility
                                                        climate change and emission             occupational
                                                        management                              health and safety

                                                             water management           customer satisfaction
   influence on stakeholders




                                                           solid waste management       process and product
                                                                                        innovation

                                                                   energy consumption and efficiency


                                                           use of renewable               employee satisfaction
                                                           resources

                                                                                       efficient use of raw
                                                                                       materials




  low                                             significance of impacts for ak-kim
                                                  (reputation, regulatory, financial, operational)




                                                                                                                           17

     sustainability goals
     strategic issues       goals set for previous reporting period                  current status

                                                                                     career maps were created for all employees during this reporting
                            drawing career maps to meet well-trained human
                                                                                     period. preparation of training and development plans to support
                            resource and career planning needs at ak-kim
                                                                                     this is ongoing.
     employee                                                                        as ak-kim we established an awarding system for employees
     satisfaction                                                                    to promote positive behavior and qualified implementations.
                            improving employee satisfaction                          we also implemented “great place to work” project as a pilot
                                                                                     implementation in r&d department and we decided to implement
                                                                                     the project in all departments of our company.
     human and labor        improving processes for management of human and          akkök holding professional code of ethics was issued and
     rights management      labor rights                                             trainings were provided to employees.
                            increasing number of emergency drills from 2 to 3
                                                                                     each plant performs emergency drills 3 times a year.
                            per year
     emergency
     management                                                                      fire trainings are taken from fleet command of the turkish naval
                            receiving fire trainings from the fleet command of
                                                                                     forces and kocaeli metropolitan municipality fire station training
                            the turkish naval forces
                                                                                     center (kobitem).
                                                                                     under the european agreement concerning the international
                            producing sustainable and environment-friendly           carriage of dangerous goods by road (adr), regulative
     product
                            products; ensuring traceable and sustainable             requirements and liabilities are fulfilled under the supervision
     responsibility
                            product responsibility processes                         of dangerous goods safety adviser during product loading,
                                                                                     handling, transportation and unloading processes.
                            assuring protection of all assets having contact with
                                                                                     information security item is included in company strategic plan
                            information, all information and information assets
     information security                                                            and relevant technology and infrastructure investments are
                            both internally and at/before all stakeholders to
                                                                                     planned.
                            ensure sustainability of all processes in ak-kim.
                            completing the safety report in accordance with the
                            council directive 96/82/ec of 9 december 1996            the safety report is delivered to the ministry of labor and social
     occupational health
                            on the control of major-accident hazards involving       security on june 29, 2016. safety report includes 18 folders and
     and safety
                            dangerous substances (seveso) and submitting the         is comprised of approximately 5,500 pages.
                            report to the ministry of labor and social security
                                                                                     sodium persulfate plant is completed and currently trial
                            restructuring the persulfate facility to reduce
                                                                                     productions are made. construction of ammonium persulfate
                            emission sources by 50%
     climate change                                                                  plant is still ongoing.
     and emission                                                                    a revision process with the purpose of improvement shall be
     management             replacing direct use of steam with the existing boiler   implemented in major portion of textile auxiliaries facility. boiler
                            system at textile auxiliaries facility                   system shall also be replaced within this scope during the
                                                                                     subsequent reporting period.
                                                                                     waste water produced by ak-kim is being sent to the joint waste
                                                                                     water treatment plant as of july 21, 2015. for this reason, the
                            joint waste water treatment project
                                                                                     treatment plant previously used is deactivated, resulting in power
     water management                                                                and resource savings.

                            using alternative water resources instead of limited
                                                                                     we continue to use dam water.
                            surface waters

                                                                                     first priority practice in waste process is to reduce the waste at
                                                                                     source, use it as secondary raw material and ensure recovery;
                            minimizing all sorts of wastes at source
                                                                                     and ensure disposal of the last remaining waste in proper ways
     solid waste                                                                     not harming the environment.
     management
                                                                                     we prefer processes which would generate less amount of waste
                            launching processes and technologies that generate
                                                                                     during the design stage of any current or future investments. for
                            less waste
                                                                                     instance, sodium and ammonium persulfate plants.

                                                                                     electrolyzer investment in persulfates facility was realized during
                            900,000 kwh/year energy saving with the
                                                                                     2014 and 2015, resulting in 800,000 kwh power savings
                            electrolyzer investment in persulfates facility
                                                                                     achieved.
     energy management
                            1,500,000 kwh energy saving with the activation of       1,600,000 kwh/year of electric power savings is ensured due to
                            sodium percarbonate (spc) facility                       optimization of compressed air consumption in spc plant.




18

dialog with stakeholders
ak-kim defines its stakeholders as “all people and institutions that are affected by our products,
services and operations and that might affect our company in reaching its strategic targets”.

we reviewed the existing stakeholder portfolio and prepared a stakeholder map during the
sustainability workshop we held in this reporting period with the participation of our senior
management team. during prioritization, we gave special importance to those that have high
influence on managing our impact on sustainability and those that might be most affected by our
operations. (g4-25)

in addition to these platforms, during the reporting period, we held a sustainability awareness
survey with the participation of all white-collar employees. with such practices we ensured
involvement of our employees in the reporting process. the survey included questions on all
sustainability issues related to the chemicals industry. the two main purposes of the survey were
to improve sustainability awareness in our employees and to receive their opinions on this issue.
during the reporting period, we run another awareness survey to learn about the opinions of our
dealers on our strategic issues. (g4-24)

feedback from the dealers revealed that ak-kim’s idea of sustainability has positive influence on
the subjects of occupational health and safety (92%), improving quality and durability of products
(75%) and preventing water pollution (75%). these subjects completely coincide with the material
sustainability issues we identified in the strategy workshop. (g4-27)


key stakeholders
• employees
• customers and dealers
• shareholders
• local authorities
• local communities
• public institutions
• suppliers
• media
• non profit organizations
• group companies
• students and potential employees

our key stakeholders and current communication platforms are provided in the following table.

 stakeholder             means of communication                                 frequency

                         employee satisfaction survey (ess), conversation
                                                                                ess: biannually; conversation meetings with
 employees               meetings with ceo, ak-kim social activities club
                                                                                general manager: once per 6 months
                         (asek), internal department meetings

                         customer satisfaction survey (css), dealer meetings,   css: annually - domestic and international,
 customers and dealers
                         fairs, product launches, customer visits               alternately; dealer meetings: annually;
 shareholders            board meetings                                         monthly
 local authorities       visits                                                 periodically
                         open door, akkök children’s festival, social           open door: upon request; akkök children’s
 local communities
                         responsibility projects                                festival: annually
 public institutions     visits                                                 periodically

 suppliers               supplier visits and audits                             periodically

(g4-26)

                                                                                                                              19

     management systems


     economic        iso 9001 quality management system (1995)




                     iso 14001 environmental management system (2004)
     environmental   iso 50001 energy management system (2015)
                     iso 14064international standard for ghg emissions inventories and
                     verification management system (2015)



                     ohsas 18001 occupational health and safety management
     social          system (2009)
                     iso 27001 information security management system (2015)




20

our economic performance



operational and financial indicators
                                               2014           2015
number of employees                             491            516
share of exports in total sale volume          20%            18%
number of main product groups                    28             30
total sales realized                    397,782 tons   394,685 tons


economic value generated and distributed
usd                                            2014           2015
economic value generated                159.188.627    176.326.791
revenues                                159.188.627    176.326.791
economic value distributed              176.896.743    185.473.450
operational costs                       135.170.381    168.857.005
employee wages and other benefits         9.649.772      8.710.097
payments to capital providers            22.687.527      2.981.985
payments to government                    9.250.966      4.714.281
community investments                       138.097        210.082

                                                                      21

     efficient use of raw materials
     ak-kim performs all production operations in its integrated production facilities. in other words,
     outputs of a facility are used as raw material in another facility. this brings us a considerable
     advantage in costs and competition. for instance, we not only produce and sell hydrogen peroxide,
     but also use it as raw material in another facility (sodium percarbonate). similarly, we produce and
     sell methylamines but we also produce dimethylformamide by using these methylamines.

     ak-kim has more than 20 facilities where more than 400 different materials and auxiliary raw
     materials for production. we also have a process development & technology transfer unit that
     benefits from the robust engineering infrastructure and team of ak-kim. thanks to this unit, we
     monitor efficiency of facilities, make improvements where required, and increase efficiency of raw
     materials. with the changes made in the process, the amount of scrap used in ferric iii chloride
     production increased. this sets a good example for both efficient use of raw materials and reuse
     of waste materials.

     ak-kim facilities also monitor raw material consumption with process control devices and improve
     processes when necessary. raw materials and products are properly stored and checked regularly
     for shelf life thanks to the computer-based storage management system. based upon the “first in
     first out” principle, these storage center practices reduce the loss of raw materials.

     among practices to involve employees in the resource use processes are including raw material
     efficiency into individual production goals, training the staff on raw material efficiency, and giving
     instructions to improve raw material efficiency.




22

investments
continuing the inorganic growth which would support achievement of future goals and taking
the available acquisition opportunities, ak-kim acquired full ownership of gizem frit in 2015,
the second largest enamel and ceramic frit producer in the world with a global market share of
11%. producer of enamel, ceramic, pigment and non-stick coating materials widely accepted in
international markets, gizem frit completed its composite ceramic facility investment expanded
its product range in 2015.

ak-kim allocates 4-5% of its total budget each year to r&d activities and technology investments.
the company restructured its r&d center in 2015. following the global trends, ak-kim’s r&d
center focuses on process improvement with performance chemicals and in addition to r&d on
fundamental chemicals; the center also conducts r&d for gizem frit for boron based chemicals,
biotechnology, nanotechnology, healthcare products and food additives. ak-kim r&d labs
developed 45 new products in 2014 and 39 in 2015.

phase i of the sodium persulfate facility with an annual capacity of 1,200 tons was commissioned
in 2015. the company targets to reach a total annual capacity of 7,200 tons by completing phase
ii in 2017 and phase iii in 2018. thus, ak-kim created value addition by manufacturing a raw
material in turkey which used to be entirely dependent on import in the past.

in 2015 ak-kim executed a new international engineering project for doubling the capacity of
chlorine alkali plant previously established by the company in mostaganem, algeria. the target
list of ak-kim for near future includes kazakhstan, iran and middle east countries.

shifting its r&d activities from chemical substances to high tech & high value added products,
ak-kim continues to take firm steps towards becoming one of the largest chemical companies of
turkey by 2023 with an annual sales turnover of minimum 1 billion usd.




                                                                                                    23

     ak-kim ultrafiltration plant investment
     ak-kim entered a new segment on water treatment technologies and started equipment production
     for the first time at 2015 year end. with r&d continued for five years, ak-kim developed the high
     performance hollow fiber based ultrafiltration module specifically designed for ultrafiltration systems
     with specifications superior than those of similar modules available in the market.

     annual production target planned for the ultrafiltration production plant located within 2,800 m2
     confined area in yalova is approximately 20,000 modules. 350 m2 of the total plant area is comprised
     of the laboratory and the pilot facility. the first and only producer within turkey and neighboring
     countries, ak-kim targets to reach an annual sales volume of 42-45 million usd upon starting to
     work with full capacity in this plant.

     ak-kim shall be creating valuable advantages for its customers due to being a manufacturer of water
     chemicals at the same time in addition to pre-sales project engineering support and after-sales
     technical support services provided.

     specially modified pvdf based fiber to
     • reduce the fouling
     • improve the permeability
     • controlled pore size and distribution
     • improved mechanical strength of the fiber

     unique module design
     • u-pvc tube allowing chemical resistance and uv protection
     • improved feed water circulation between the fibers
     • reduced sludge accumulation
     • facilitated back wash and air scouring
     • increased life time of the membrane
     • pur potting

     ak-kim ultrafiltration module can be used in many applications
     • industrial waste water treatment
     • municipal waste water treatment
     • effluent, brackish and surface water treatment
     • drinking water treatment
     • pretreatment for swro

     we can also offer
     • hollow fiber supply
     • squid design and supply including the backwashing, air scouring and chemical cleaning
       cycles depending on the quality of your feed water



24

our environmental
performance

akkök holding shows maximum effort to minimize its environmental impacts and aims to continuously
improve its environmental performance. sustainable growth has become one of the most important
current issues in today’s world where the natural environment is rapidly getting polluted and sources
getting scarce. a member company of akkök holding, ak-kim particularly values environmental
sustainability and aims at producing environmentally friendly products allowing reduction of chemicals
consumption.

taking every required measure to prevent environmental pollution in every process and prioritizing
environmentally friendly technologies in line with continuous improvement in all its operations, ak-kim
carefully considers the utility of power and natural resources both during the design of its processes and
during production stages. ak-kim intends to raise awareness on protection of the environment through
cooperation with suppliers and customers and works to reduce its environmental impact not only in
production phases, but also during the use of its products.

environmental activities are conducted by environmental specialists within health safety environment
(hse) department. all ak-kim employees are trained and competent in performing environmental as well
as occupational health and safety (ohs) activities; they assume responsibility and actively participate
in improvement efforts. improvement of environmental and ohs processes are material issues; root
- cause analyses are performed and concluded. there are a number of committees to improve these
processes, including the suggestion, emission, seveso (prevention of major industrial accidents),
energy management, odor group, ohs committees as well as the akçevre board coordinated by
akkök facilities in yalova.

as ak-kim, we provide energy efficiency trainings to all employees. waste and energy training was
provided to 14 employees in 2014 and to 445 employees in 2015. ak-kim allocated try 6,540,000 for
environmental and waste water treatment practices in 2014 and 2015.
                                                                                                             25

     energy efficiency
     efficient use of energy resources, energy saving and recovery has become important in every aspect
     of life with technological and industrial advances. efforts for establishing the iso 50001: 2011 energy
     management systems continued during 2015 to ensure two significant items in ak-kim’s agenda -
     sustainability of energy resources and decrease in emission of greenhouse gases and the company
     was qualified for the certificate in october 2015. energy management system is to be integrated in
     existing management systems to maximize the benefits; the system is also quite significant for cost
     reduction, easier legal compliance regarding ghg emissions, increased business performance and
     application to efficiency increasing projects.

     ak-kim purchases a portion of the energy and steam it uses from its sister company, aksa akrilik,
     and thus achieves cost advantage. energy consumption of the facilities is monitored through process
     control devices and improvements are made by production department when necessary. in addition,
     electricity and steam are directly purchased form auto producer and thus no additional emission is
     caused. all forklifts are electrical vehicles, causing no fossil fuel consumption or emission.

     in the facilities that ak-kim built with its own know-how and technology, energy efficiency and savings
     are given priority in the selection of processes and equipment. for instance, while establishing the
     ici-licensed chlorine alkali facility in 1992, ak-kim selected membrane process which is more
     environment-friendly compared to other processes. ak-kim has been the first company to implement
     the high-investment membrane technology, which does not generate hazardous waste as it does not
     use mercury in the process. (changes made in regulations in recent years ban the use of mercury
     based systems and therefore other chlorine alkali facilities in the world have recently started to
     replace mercury and asbestos-based processes with membrane systems.)

     employees are given individual targets not only for raw material efficiency, but also for that of energy.
     in addition, there are company instructions to improve the efficiency of raw materials.

     following savings were made during 2014 and 2015 as a result of the activities for increasing
     efficiency regarding power and steam consumptions:

     • 1,600,000 kwh/year of electric power due to optimization of compressed air consumption in
       spc plant,
     • 800,000 kwh energy by investment of electrolyzer in the persulphate plant,
     • 9,500 tons/year of steam due to optimization of steam consumption in dmac plant,
     • 385,000 kwh/year of electric power due to membrane replacement in chlor- alkali plant electrolyzers,
     • 200,000 kwh/year of electric power due to efficiency improvements in hydrogen and carbon 		
       monoxide plant for hydrogen compressor.

      secondary energy purchased and
      consumed from non-renewable energy        unit          2014          2015
      sources
      electricity                                gj        543.608       516.485
      secondary energy purchased and
      consumed from non-renewable energy        unit          2014          2015
      sources
      steam                                      gj        548.232       551.862
      secondary energy purchased and
      consumed from non-renewable energy        unit          2014          2015
      sources
      natural gas                               sm3       9.262.154    10.663.432


26

solid waste management
ak-kim separately collects and stores wastes in waste stations built within the field and ensure
proper recycling or disposal of wastes according to their qualities. hazardous wastes are stored
in standard temporary waste storages built in accordance with related laws and regulations.
these wastes are delivered to licensed recycling or disposal institutions by vehicles licensed by
the ministry of environment and urbanization.

ak-kim has a variety of projects to reduce wastes. for instance, r&d works are performed to
ensure that activated alumina wastes used in hydrogen peroxide production are used in the
ceramic industry as raw material or as concrete admixture, resulting in recovery of 200 tons of
activated alumina per year. in addition, personal scorecards of employees include targets for
reducing wastes.

another example is hydrochloric acid, one of the chemicals produced by ak-kim and used in
many areas, including metal cleaning. after being supplied to the galvanize industry, hydrochloric
acid is used in metal cleaning and then it becomes waste. this waste is called “ferric ii chloride
solution” or “rotten acid”. the waste is transferred from customers’ facilities with vehicles licensed
by the ministry of environment and urban planning and is then recovered at ak-kim’s ferric
iii chloride facility, which is also licensed by the ministry. after being processed, this waste is
turned into ferric iii chloride. ferric iii chloride is used in wastewater treatment. with this system,
environmental damage to be caused by rotten acid is prevented and the waste is recovered.
average amount of rotten acid or ferric ii chloride solution recovered per year is approximately
6,000 tons.

in addition to performing waste management practices, ak-kim also contributes to such processes
of its customers.

collecting the 44% of the paper and plastic packing materials of its products in 2014 and 48% in
2015, ak-kim contributed in recycling.



 waste weight by type and                                     discharge             2014                2015
                                  examples
 discharge method                                             method         total (tons/year)   total (tons/year)
                                  contaminated wastes (a)     incineration          91                 79
                                  process-generated
                                  wastes that are             incineration         664                536
 hazardous wastes (information    incinerated (b)
 on type, amount and discharge    waste oils (c)              recovery               3                  2
 in line with the official
 information given in hazardous   waste batteries (d)         landfill          0.0078                  0
 waste statement)                 contaminated galvanized
                                  barrels, plastic drums,     recovery             354                382
                                  ibc tanks
                                  inert wastes                landfill             520                227
                                         total (hazardous wastes)               1632,1              1226
                                  domestic wastes             landfill             200                250
                                  paper, cardboard,
 non-hazardous wastes             plastic, wood, glass etc.   recovery             240                209
                                  packaging wastes
                                  scrap, metal wastes         recovery             100                120
                                          total (hazardous wastes)                 540                579




                                                                                                                     27

     water management
     today, over one billion people have limited access to drinkable/fresh water throughout the world
     where only 2.5% of the total available water sources are drinkable. water shortage could turn into
     a serious crisis in many parts of the world within the next 20-25 years. therefore, efficient use of
     water and treatment & recovery of waste water becomes more and more important every day. sea
     water treatment is the alternative solution utilized where the above mentioned methods prove to be
     insufficient.

     efficient use and saving of water, which is one of the most vital resources for sustainable development,
     has an important role in ak-kim’s environmental practices. ak-kim procures the water used in its
     two factories in yalova from the gökçe dam and from aksa akrilik, which is a sister company. utility
     water is received directly from the dam. amount of utility water may differ in line with the increase in
     operational activities.

     water used in processes is procured from two sources. in the southern ak-kim facilities, water from
     the dam is softened before usage, whereas in the northern ak-kim facilities water is received from
     aksa akrilik. approximately 60-65% of water used in processes becomes product component and
     the rest becomes waste water. cooling water is taken from the dam and aksa and used in a closed
     circuit system. thus water is added only when there is loss due to evaporation/leakage. the water
     taken from the dam goes through a treatment system to be used as drinking water.

     in the production facilities in çerkezköy, untreated water is procured from the well within the borders
     of ak-kim. this untreated water is softened at the ak-kim facility and then used as process water
     and in steam generation. drinking water is outsourced.

     the personnel are given periodical training on efficient use of water and water savings. recent
     projects enabled significant savings in the amount of water consumed.

     water consumption
     (m3/year)


     2014                               2015




         785,000                              554,068



28

reuse of waste water
each of the two factories in yalova has its own waste water treatment facility. these facilities treat
waste water containing chemicals. in the southern ak-kim facilities, domestic waste water is
delivered to the sewage system to be treated at the treatment facility of the municipality, whereas
the northern ak-kim uses the existing waste water treatment facility for domestic waste water.

northern ak-kim waste water treatment facility is composed of physical treatment, chemical
treatment, biological treatment (anaerobic-nitrification-aerobic denitrification), and sludge
dewatering part. the water treated there is then discharged in accordance with the limits stated
in table 14.12 of the water pollution control regulations issued by the ministry of environment
and urbanization. southern ak-kim waste water treatment facility uses physical and chemical
treatment. the water treated there is then discharged in accordance with the limits stated in
table 19 of the water pollution control regulations issued by the ministry of environment and
urbanization.

in addition, 14,500 m3/year waste water generated in the sodium percarbonate facility is
recovered for reuse in the production system. in this way, not only water saving is achieved,
but also loss of products within the waste water is prevented. similarly, the water regained from
cooling water is used in watering green areas, thus enabling approximately 6,000 m3/year water
saving in the summer.

205,000 m3/year waste water was disposed of through treatment in 2014 and 219,350 m3/year
in 2015 at ak-kim yalova plant.


                                    water discharge (m3/year) ak-kim
          (location of discharge)




                                          231,000                 2014
marmara sea




                                          247,500                        2015



domestic and industrial waste water generated at the
production facilities in çerkezköy is treated at the waste
water treatment facility of the organized industrial zone.
18,500 m3/year waste water generated in çerkezköy
production facilities and recreational facilities is delivered
to the treatment facility of the organized industry zone.




                                                                                                         29

     joint treatment plant
     akkök initiated a “joint treatment plant” project at yalova production facilities in 2012 to make
     the energy and chemicals consumption more efficient. under this project the company decided to
     collect the waste water previously sent to different treatment plants and treat this aggregate waste
     water volume in one single plant. the joint treatment plant’s construction began in 2014. upon
     completion of the plant in july 2015, its operation is transferred to yalkim organized industrial
     zone. all companies at yalkim organized industrial zone started to send their waste water to
     yalkim organized industrial zone joint treatment plant to be treated.

     the joint treatment plant, now treating the entire volume of domestic and industrial waste water
     collected from yalkim organized industrial zone companies including akkök holding companies
     aksa, ak-kim and dowaksa, is established over approximately 17,303 m2 area. 18 million usd
     investment was made to establish this plant with a daily waste water flow meeting capacity
     of 15,000 m3. the plant includes physical treatment, chemical treatment, biological treatment
     and sludge dewatering units. the majority of the water treatment chemicals utilized in the joint
     plant are provided by ak-kim. in the plant, there is also a pilot plant where ak-kim ultrafiltration
     modules are used.

     aim of this project that is implemented to simplify treatment processes by using the synergic effect
     of waste water with different characteristics, to allow reuse of water by using advanced treatment
     (ultrafiltration) technologies), to ensure easy operation/maintenance, to optimize land and natural
     resource use in the production facility and to sustainably meet future increase in capacity.




30

climate change and emission management
ak-kim performs the following activities for fighting against climate change and for reduction of
emissions:

• selection of suitable technological equipment and process improvement
• assigning an odor team and making odor measurements
• calculating greenhouse gas emissions (carbon footprint)
• weather modeling
• making internal monitoring measurements

within the scope of these practices, ak-kim pays utmost attention to ensure that the state-of-the-
art equipment is purchased for existing or new production facilities and that environmental impact
of such equipment is minimal.

with the odor prevention team established with participation from various departments of the
company, emission sources in the facility are identified and such emissions are prevented. in
addition, in conformity with the directive on controlling odor-generating emissions, odor generated
at emission funnels are measured regularly.

emissions of facilities are stored in absorbers of process funnels before reaching out to the
atmosphere and are re-fed into the system. this way, air quality is maintained, resource use is
reduced, and chemicals are reused. in addition, organic steams are burned in the incinerator
system to avoid any environmental damage. 1,750 tons/year steam power is generated during
the incineration and this energy is used for heating the facilities.

air quality distribution modeling aims to identify how the polluters generated during our operations
(dust, co, nox, sox, voc, etc.) may be dispersed in the working area under existing meteorological
conditions and what may be the potential ground level precipitation of such pollutants.

during air pollution distribution modeling, the distribution of air pollutants in the atmosphere
are mathematically simulated by using parameters such as source data, meteorological data,
land forms, etc. related computer programs analyze mathematical equalities and algorithms of
pollutants. ak-kim performs all such practices within the coordination of management systems.




                                                                                                       31

     with a variety of emission measurement devices, ak-kim makes internal measurements in
     emergencies or pre-defined periods and thus prevents environmental pollution by timely
     intervention in case of any problems. in addition, ak-kim actively participates in activities of
     related non-governmental platforms, public institutions and business world and contributes to
     such practices.

     ak-kim conducts required operations regarding global warming and reduction of gas emissions
     causing global warming, the global issue which has gained even more importance after execution
     of kyoto protocol. ak-kim prepares greenhouse gas emission monitoring reports within this
     scope and has delivered the internal greenhouse gas emission monitoring plan to the ministry of
     environment and urbanization in 2014 in accordance with the communiqué on monitoring and
     reporting greenhouse gases. the company was qualified in 2015 for ‘‘iso 14064 greenhouse
     gases inventory’’, forming the basis of activities conducted to reduce carbon emissions. with this
     certificate, the company made a significant progress towards reduction of its carbon footprint
     through ensuring measurement of current emissions and approval of such measurements by an
     independent body.

     performing all operations and activities with the consciousness of environmental protection,
     these efforts of ak-kim to reduce carbon emissions is quite significant particularly in terms of
     sustainability and for solution of environmental issues. this certificate also enabled ak-kim to
     achieve the company goal of “making sustainability a company culture” included in the list of
     2015-2019 company strategies.




32

environment-friendly products
investigation of environmental dimension is among the acceptance criteria of a new chemical
designed with an r&d process. today, resource savings; especially energy and water is a
significant issue. in full awareness of our responsibility towards future generations, we, as ak-
kim, do not develop any products that could be harmful for the environment. in addition, we give
priority to efficient use and saving of existing resources while developing r&d projects.

ak-kim has adopted the vision of “offering tailor-made integrated solutions to its customers”.
one of the important aspects in its r&d practices is enabling customers to save resources
by improving processes through environment-friendly chemicals. other environment-friendly
chemicals developed at ak-kim r&d center and offered to customers during the reporting period
are listed below.




akua end 6133 and akua end 6140 - used as decolorant and for sedimentation in treatment
of particularly textile waste water and also for paint, pulp and paper, printing ink and similar industrial
waste waters. ensures reuse of treated water in appropriate processed and thus contributes to
water saving and reduction of sludge and waste amounts.

akua san 1012 - prevents corrosion without inhibiting heat transfer by creating a barrier between
the monomolecular film adsorbed on metal surfaces and water & metal. in this way the product
ensures efficient functioning of steam and condensate systems and prevents energy losses.

aksoft csk - used as cationic and organic softener in palette form by textile plants. this product
can dissolve in cold water contrary to the other commercially available products which can only
dissolve in hot water, and thus and helps save energy since it enables preparation of solutions with
cold water, eliminating the heating and post process cooling operations entirely.

aksoft cns - used as nonionic and organic softener in palette form by textile plants. this
product can dissolve in cold water contrary to the other commercially available products which can
only dissolve in hot water, and thus and helps save energy since it enables preparation of solutions
with cold water, eliminating the heating and post process cooling operations entirely.




                                                                                                              33

     our social performance



     product responsibility in value chain
     ak-kim r&d department closely monitoring the developments in the sector was established in 1996
     with the aim of ensuring the production of goods with high added value, working on product and
     technology development in areas that are likely to gain importance in the future, and improving the
     quality and reducing costs in current technologies and processes.

     the r&d center was certified by the ministry of science, industry and technology on october 25th,
     2013. the center continues operations with approximately 60 employees. ak-kim r&d directorate
     performs with the vision of “becoming a leading r&d center that generates know-how” and the
     mission of “offering chemical and engineering solutions that create value added products, processes
     and new implementation areas by using advanced technologies in performance, basic chemicals
     and byproducts”.




34

compliance with international and local regulations
reach (registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemicals)
ak-kim signed a contract with dinox handels gmbh, its representative company in europe,
for pre-registration and license procedures of reach (regulation on registration, evaluation,
authorization and restriction of chemicals). registration of all ak-kim products exported to
europe has been completed.

authorized economic operator certification
ak-kim’s eu distributor dinox handels gmbh has successfully obtained the aeo (authorized
economic operator) certification. with this certification, dinox possesses the conditions required
for safety of supply chain, starting from loading at the factory (ak-kim kimya san. ve tic. a.ş.)
until delivery to the end-user and the following rights:

• reliability
• accountability and traceability of commercial records
• financial competence
• security and safety standards
• material safety data sheet
• technical data sheet

certificate of approved economic operator implementation, which has facilitated ak-kim’s
import and export processes and made the company a trusted international merchant, shall
cease in august 2017. we have started the necessary procedures for obtaining the certificate of
approved economic operator. the company shall ensure receipt of this document within 2017,
as the substitute for the above mentioned certificate.

the directive of the european agreement concerning the international carriage of
dangerous goods by road and relevant practices
within the scope of this directive effective as of 2013, ak-kim:
• obtained hazardous material operation certification in 2014. has provided awareness trainings
  to employees on the directive.
• two employees were trained as hazardous material consultants and were certified as accordingly.
• audits transporters to ensure that they fulfill the requirements of the directive.
  (src5 inquiry, sign checks etc.)
• continues efforts to systemize its existing practices for conformity with the directive (integration
  software for alignment with the directive, software for hazardous material transportation etc.).

ak-kim has adopted and since then has been implementing the rules of the european agreement
concerning the international carriage of dangerous goods by road (known as adr) as early as
1997, whereas many articles of the directive started to be implemented in turkey in 2014.

ak-kim has long been monitoring national and international standards and obtains all certifications
and documents required for its facilities and products. within the scope of this principle, ak-kim
holds good manufacturing practice (gmp), product-based halal and kosher certifications as well
as biocidal product licenses.




                                                                                                         35

     customer satisfaction
     always attaching great importance to customer satisfaction, ak-kim runs domestic and international
     customer satisfaction surveys every year, alternately. with this survey, customers’ opinions on issues
     such as corporate image, products and production, pricing and payment terms, quality of logistics,
     quality and competence of technical support, and quality of sales and marketing are obtained.


     some customer assessments regarding ak-kim’s stand on a scale of 0-5 as taken from 2014
     customer satisfaction survey are provided below.



     reliable firm                                                     4,50

     environment friendly                                              4,22

     provides sufficient documents about products                      4,03

     informative labels on product packaging                           3,94

     produces high quality products at international standards         3,97


     ak-kim’s corporate image was assessed with quite high scores by both national and international
     customers. the company has planned to make improvements in line with the sub criteria included
     in the main aspects analyzed in this survey to increase customer satisfaction and loyalty.

     ak-kim considers each and every complaint that it handles in the customer relations management
     process as an opportunity for continuous development. we examine complaints in an objective,
     effective, fast and careful way and offer solutions. in parallel with this principle, we are always
     committed to improving our business processes in a way that meets customers’ expectations to
     avoid recurring complaints and to developing services to meet these expectations.

     in ak-kim, directorate of sales & marketing and management systems division are responsible for
     receiving oral and/or written complaints through related channels and informing the related parties
     that the complaint is being assessed by ak-kim. all complaints and other feedback are kept in
     records. according to the customer complaint evaluation process, once the complaint is received,
     the customer should be informed within 24 hours that the complaint is in process. monthly written
     customer complaint reports are shared with the management and related departments. on the
     other hand, complaints and response times are evaluated at monthly quality meetings and potential
     problems are identified to take actions.

     ak-kim has not experienced any violation of customer confidentiality or loss of customer data, nor
     has it received any complaints regarding this issue.




36

employee satisfaction and engagement
in order to identify employee satisfaction levels and, where necessary, to devise action plans to
improve satisfaction, ak-kim holds “employee satisfaction surveys”. given by an independent
consultancy firm, the survey covers employee satisfaction, loyalty and enthusiasm as well as
meaning of the work done, working conditions/environment/occupational health and safety,
information flow, communication and cooperation, personal/professional/career development,
performance management, employment conditions and job security, remuneration, manager,
recognition and appreciation, company management, company reputation and awareness. the
results of the survey are delivered to ak-kim by the consultancy firm.

these results are announced to employees and feedback received as a result of meetings with
employees is used to make an action plan. participation rate to the survey was 75% in 2014
and company reputation and awareness, working conditions/environment/occupational health
and safety, and meaning of the work done were identified as the top three areas that ak-kim
performed the best. as of 2015 end, average age of ak-kim employees is 36.3; average seniority
which indicates employee engagement is 8.5 years.




great place to work
employee survey “great place to work”, a method for hearing the “voice of employees” throughout
akkök holding was started to be used in 2015 as a tool of our “participative management”
approach.

“great place to work” predicates a trusted work environment where our employees can reliably
be engaged and get attached to, be proud of their workplace and the job they perform and work
in perfect harmony and cooperation with their colleagues.

our employee survey “great place to work” has been the approach we preferred, both for matching
with our group’s spiritual texture and for supporting our business ethics principles which we see
as one of the cornerstones of our corporate culture. providing us with opportunities which would
carry our company forward, this survey is an independent and contemporary management tool,
focusing on “reliability”, “respect”, “justice”, “pride”, “team spirit” dimensions of our current
business life and taking the picture of our actual status in these areas.

“great place to work” was implemented at r&d department as a pilot scheme in 2015 and is
planned to be run with all our employees in 2016.




idea factory
moreover, the “idea factory” covering all creative ideas and opinions of employees on issues
such as facilitating/accelerating work performance, increasing capacity, improving efficiency
(savings and cost reduction), reducing environmental impact, increasing customer satisfaction,
and contributing to the vision, mission and values of the company has started in 2015 to evaluate
the suggestions generated. out of 73 suggestions received, 22 were put into practice, achieving
a hit rate of 30%.

                                                                                                    37

     working standards and human rights

     recruiting professionals based upon criteria such as knowledge, talents, competence and
     experience, ak-kim focuses on bringing the creativity of human resources to the forefront by using
     a human-centered management system. the company offers employees a working environment
     that is in compliance with the international standards of occupational health and safety.

     always valuing its employees and respecting employee rights, ak-kim signs a contract with new
     employees, which is drawn in line with valid laws and which includes mutual responsibilities of
     parties, namely the company and the employee. in addition, the personnel regulations guide
     that is given to all new employees includes information on working conditions, benefits, and rights
     of employees starting from the first day at work until resignation. personnel regulations guide is
     updated in accordance with legal regulations and developing needs.

     ak-kim bestows rights to its employees beyond the limits required by the laws and international
     standards. we closely monitor legal regulations and inform our employees on changes in laws-
     practices concerning them. ak-kim adopts the fundamental principle of creating a working
     environment that encourages cooperation, requires mutual respect, avoids harassment and
     non-professional behaviors, and offers equal opportunities to employees. each employee is
     responsible against associates and the company to prevent such behaviors and incidents.

     employees are notified of significant operational changes that might affect them by taking legal
     notification and notice periods into consideration prior to implementation. at akkök holding,
     operational decisions are implemented in accordance with the personnel directives prepared
     on the basis of the labor code and related regulations. the reasonable notice stated by the
     laws is performed within the manner and time given in the personnel directives. significant
     changes such as salary change, workplace change, secondment, substitution, additional duty,
     temporary business relationships are declared in writing by the human resources department
     and employees accept the receipt of these notifications.




38

responsibilities and job descriptions of new employees are clearly defined. in case of changes
in duties and responsibilities, the employee is notified in writing and approval is obtained. all
practices such as changing roles and rotations are implemented by the directorate of human
resources and management systems. there is no forced-labor practice at ak-kim and there are
no related risks.

article 51 paragraph c of the constitution provides all employees with the right to establish trade
unions. at ak-kim, there is full compliance with related laws and regulations. employees are fully
involved in company practices and process and their opinions and suggestions are taken into
consideration.


in addition to monthly wages, ak-kim offers benefits such as free transportation, lunch, four
bonuses per year, private health insurance, advance payments for health, housing and education,
and social aids (marriage, children, birth/death, fuel, food and clothing aids) as well as vehicles
and mobile phones for senior executives in order to improve employee loyalty and productivity.
limited time (temporary) employees also benefit from the wages, meals, shuttle bus and
workplace healthcare unit services but are not qualified for benefits paid in cash and personal
health insurance provided to full time employees.




                                                                                                      39

     equal opportunities
     ak-kim does make any discrimination between candidates based on their language, race,
     gender, political view, belief, religion, or sect and provide them equal opportunities in exercising
     the recruitment, career planning, training, development etc. processes.

     at recruitment and hiring stage, we try to engage with candidates possessing the education,
     knowledge, talents, competence, and experience required by the relevant job, compatible for our
     corporate culture and values and capable of carrying us to the future.

     we use contemporary assessment methods supporting objective decision making in recruitment
     and hiring process and act in line with “right person for the right job” principle. human resource
     planning is made by taking ak-kim’s strategic plans and medium and long-term targets into
     consideration.

     all ak-kim employees benefit from all rights granted by the labor code 4857 and are given
     annual leaves. in addition, employees have private health insurance. recruitment and placement
     process is performed by the directorate of human resources and management systems.
     candidates below the age of 18 are not invited for interviews. ak-kim’s contractors are required
     to avoid child labor as well. it is an indispensable ethical value for ak-kim to work with suppliers
     and subcontractors that refrain from violating human rights such as forced or child labor.

     all vacancies are announced within the company and as a company policy, competent candidates
     recommended by employees are included in the recruitment process. ak-kim prefers candidates
     residing within the vicinity of the company’s location for filling the open job positions.

     ak-kim applies the hay group wage management system in order to maintain competitive wage
     levels of employees, to give the same wages for identical positions in the market, and to be fair in
     wages. the company pays attention to making payments on time and avoiding any unrecorded
     payments. none of the employees throughout the company is paid below the minimum wage.

     minimum wage for 2015 was 1,273 try (gross). in accordance with ak-kim’s remuneration
     policy, the starting rate for new employees at ak-kim is approximately 37.6% higher than the
     minimum wage. wages do not vary depending on the gender of the employee.




40

akkök young talent pool

each year in march, candidates newly graduated from the target universities mutually identified
by akkök holding companies or candidates with 0-3 years of work experience are selected from
those applying to the group’s job posts on kariyer.net portal.

we offer intern positions to university students during summer time and to high school students
during winter time. ak-kim serves various industry groups due to its large product portfolio,
including textile, metal, food, cleaning, water treatment, pulp & paper, pharmaceutical and
construction industries, which is a great opportunity for these students to gain experience on many
different fields. students are given the chance to be interns in departments they selected during
their applications and can find many processes from production to quality control, engineering
and sales under the same roof. thus, they can personally observe the working environment and
the tasks performed in the fields where they would like to have their career development. this
opportunity offered in drawing their career lines is a great advantage for them. interns are mainly
selected among students from departments of target universities including particularly chemical
engineering and chemistry as well as mechanical, electrical, electronic, industrial, environmental
engineering departments; and also from economic and administrative sciences department
although this happens less frequent.



career planning and talent management
with career planning and talent management, ak-kim aims at determining the need for human
resources capable of carrying the company to the future, determining at early stages the potential
group/company employees which could meet these needs and providing them with the required
professional know-how, skills and development opportunities. to this end, integral and systematic
implementations at group level coordinated by akkök holding are in place, such as assessment
center, leadership potential inventory, personality inventory, 360 degree evaluation etc. personal
development plans are created for the relevant employees at the end of the above mentioned
implementations and realization of these plans is monitored.

career planning and talent management process helps us effectively provide back-ups for critical
positions in companies/group and ensure a sustainable performance.




                                                                                                      41

     performance management system
     with the aim of improving efficiency and achieving continuous development, ak-kim applies a
     performance management system that effectively and objectively evaluates individual and team
     targets in a way that is integrated with department, directorate and company goals. performance
     management system was cascaded throughout the company in 2013 and employee performance
     is evaluated in terms of:

     • operational level – production tonnage and efficiency target
     • other positions – company targets or individual targets

     results achieved through annual evaluation of individual targets and quarterly evaluation of sales
     and team targets with the performance management system form inputs for variable income
     system, bonus system, training and development, and career planning and talent management
     processes.

     there were 114 employees with individual target cards in 2014. this is 84.4% of the employees
     included in performance management system. there were 119 employees with individual target
     cards in 2015. this is 87.3% of the employees included in performance management system.
     ak-kim attaches importance to rotation and promotion/assignment to various functions and
     employees are given priority in new positions/vacancies.

     in the reporting period, promotions and job rotations of 41 employees were carried out.



     trainings
     ak-kim aims to invest in people and encourage personal improvement by adopting practices
     based upon continuous development in line with corporate strategies and targets. while preparing
     the annual training plan, training needs of employees are identified and these trainings are given
     throughout the year in accordance to the plan.

     professional and personal development of our employees is important for us. our directorates
     determine the training needs each year to create a training plan according to which we ensure
     technical and skills development of our employees.

     during preparation of this training plan we mainly focus on the requests received from employees
     and we believe that this, together with our “right person for the right job” approach, provides
     motivation and ensures job satisfaction.




42

2014 trainings
optimum balance model training, initiated in 2013 for company managers, was continued during
2014 and 2015 also. the objectives of this training are to enable the employees to comprehend
their own job identities and the work environment they are in, to change their own habits, and to
understand other peers and colleagues they meet throughout their business lives.

optimum balance model training stage 2 was given to directors and department managers and
optimum balance model training stage 1 to unit managers in 2014. optimum balance model
training was also continued in 2015 for employees working in specialist position.

all managers were given generation blend in business life training in 2014 to raise awareness
about generation y. sailing and paintball events were organized in 2014 to enhance “team work,
communication and cooperation”.

in addition, a sustainability survey was held and employee evaluations on potential economic,
social and environmental impact that are/should be managed within the framework of sustainability
management process were received. while employee feedback was received, awareness in
employees on material sustainability issues in the industry was also created.


2015 trainings
business conduct principles training including human rights module was given to senior
managers and directors in 2014 and to all employees throughout the company in 2015. total
amount of business conduct training (employee*hours) provided in 2015 was 1,616 and total
number of participating employees was 152.

some of the career and personal development trainings provided to employees in 2015 are as
follows:
• change management
• effective people management
• initiative and innovation
• leadership in the speed of trust
• leader’s place in hr processes
• problem solution techniques
• strategic management
• leadership & coaching for high performance teams

additionally, we support career and personal developments of our employees attending college for
master’s and/or phd degree by giving them paid leave for 1 day per week during their academic
terms.


 training investments

 by type of training                       unit            2014              2015

 technical trainings                       hour            6,513             8,573

 personal development trainings            hour            1.582             3.091




                                                                                                    43

     employee communication
     aiming to create open and transparent communication with all stakeholders, ak-kim launched
     the open door policy in 1999 to ensure that employees can easily reach their managers about
     every issue. ak-kim transformed this policy into a corporate social responsibility project and
     opened its facilities to official institutions and organizations as well as students -from primary
     school to college- that would like to visit the company and get information. numerous visitors
     were accepted to ak-kim facilities during 2014 and 2015 within the scope of our open door
     policy.

     furthermore, we have organized “dialog with general manager” meetings where working
     conditions are discussed by employees with high level of transparency and also various other
     events. in addition to the foregoing, a cocktail has started to be arranged every 6 months since
     the beginning of 2015 for new hires with the participation of general manager and the new hires’
     managers.

     events gathering management and employees together and contributing to their amalgamation are
     organized by ak-kim social activities club (asek). such events include travels and trips, theater,
     meal organizations with the purpose of enhancing intradepartmental communication, picnics and
     new year party and dinner for the retired organized each year for our retired employees.

     celebrating employees’ birthdays with small memorial gifts each year, ak-kim gave employees little
     lösev magnets in 2014 and thus donated the amounts to lösev, the foundation for children
     with leukemia. in 2015 the gift took the form of donation to tev in the names of employees,
     contributing to education of successful and talented young people in need of financial support.

     ak-kim portal containing information on employee birthdays, weddings, having newborns, new
     employees, resigns, announcements, useful links, etc. not only allows employees to have easy
     access to information, but also contributes to a higher level of internal communication within the
     company. ak-kim updated the portal with new technologies in 2015.




44

ak-kim employee rewards

seniority plate: employees having served for 5 years and multiples of 5 years (5, 10, 15 etc. years)
are rewarded with a seniority plate to show appreciation for their long service and work in ak-kim.

retirement plate: employees leaving ak-kim by retirement after serving the company for long
years are awarded with a retirement plate to show appreciation for their long service and work.

idea factory award: idea factory system covering all creative opinions of employees on issues
such as facilitating/accelerating work performance, increasing capacity, improving efficiency
(savings and cost reduction), reducing environmental impact, increasing customer satisfaction, and
contributing to the vision, mission and values of the company is put in effect in december 2014.

invention award: this is for rewarding employees developing ideas for a product and/or method
with specific technical features for solution of a specific technological problem.

success award: this is for rewarding employees contributing to ebitda, increasing customer and/
or employee satisfaction, raising company reputation, contributing to organizational values, ethical
values and corporate culture and contributing to successes creating difference at a level worth of
rewarding.

instant rewarding: this is for rewarding and appreciation of any behavior, practice, task completed,
activity, suggestion (not entered in suggestion system) etc. setting an example for other employees
and not covered in other employee rewarding categories.

model ohs employee: each month, employees meeting the selection criteria in line with the
opinion of workplace physician and approval of ohs board are rewarded.

model ohs team: we started implementing “model ohs team” in october 2014.

the criteria for selection of model ohs team are:
 • model ohs team is selected quarterly in case there is a group meeting the selection criteria.
   this team is selected by ohs board in consideration of the following criteria:
 • team continuously and strictly follows the group’s ohs rules within the site they are responsible
   for and sets an example to other employees and groups with their work,
 • team ensures other employees working at the site in their responsibility area continuously and
   strictly observe the ohs rules, no team member receives any warnings and/or have an
   occupational accident within the year,
 • team members contribute to reporting of unsafe situations, conditions and acts,
 • team makes improvements to create a safe working environment at the site in their
   responsibility area,
 • team observes the hygiene rules and ensures that the common areas within the site in their
   responsibility area are kept clean and in good order.
the group, meeting the selection criteria within the site for which they are responsible, are selected
quarterly by occupational health & safety board.




                                                                                                         45

     occupational health and safety
     possessing the ohsas 18001 occupational health and safety management system certificate
     since april 2009 and paying close attention to employee health, ak-kim identifies and evaluates
     risks and takes precautions to minimize their effects in order to prevent injuries and health
     problems during all kinds of operations in our workplaces. we continuously monitor and improve
     occupational health and safety management and performance.

     setting, implementing and checking targets to improve its ohs performance, ak-kim currently
     employs (all full-time employees) 1 class a occupational safety specialist, 1 class b occupational
     safety specialist, 3 occupational safety field operators and 1 half-time workplace physician and
     1 full-time nurse.

     procedures related to occupational health and safety, projects to increase awareness of
     employees, trainings, drills, practices, controls, documentation of ohs management system,
     achieving continuity, and conformity with ohs legislation and institutions that we are a member
     of are being implemented in the company for approximately 20 years. with the aim of improving
     employee interest in ohs, employees setting example in terms of ohs are rewarded monthly.
     within the scope of this practice, 24 employees were rewarded with certificates of appreciation
     and gold coins as exemplary personnel in 2014 and 2015. workplace health and safety unit
     was established in 2010 and this unit reports directly to the health safety environment (hse)
     department.

     in 2014 & 2015, ak-kim held 26 emergency drills, mainly on fire, gas leak, and evacuation. in
     addition, “near-miss incidents” identified by employees are reported to the occupational health
     and safety unit and corrective and preventive actions are taken periodically. among our projects
     for 2016 are establishment of behavior oriented occupational safety system and expanding the
     ohs habit to all ak-kim employees.

     pursuant to ak-kim’s occupational health & safety (ohs) policy, ohs practices are not only
     limited to the company’s own operations and employees; suppliers’ audits with an agenda
     including ohs issues are conducted and ohs trainings are provided not only to company
     employees but also to contractors’ employees as well.


     occupational health and safety                                        all employees

     occupational health and safety trainings   unit                 2014                  2015

     total hours of ohs trainings               hour                4.545,95           6684,43

     ohs training hours                         hour/employee         11                   14




46

emergency management
emergency means collapse, breakdown, explosion, cleavage, split, fire and chemical leakage
that may cause loss of life and property and that may result from natural disasters (earthquake,
flood, storm, etc.), actions such as sabotage and attack, system and/or human errors, or any
incident outside ak-kim.

emergency actions are taken to return to normal operations by troubleshooting in case of collapse,
breakdown, cleavage, split, explosion, storm, abnormal climate change, fire and chemical
leakage. these actions may include emergency alarm-evacuation, firefighting, fighting dangerous
gas leakages, combating flood, controlling chemical spills and leakages, measures taken before
and after earthquakes, rescue and technical repair activities, first aid, social services, etc.

emergencies such as failing to achieve waste water treatment regulations, unexpected spills,
unexpected burdens, etc. are stated in operation instructions for waste water treatment facilities
of ak-kim. “instructions for notification of incidents at ak-kim yalova factories” is implemented
in case of sabotage, bomb threats, social up rises, etc.

ak-kim general manager is also the emergency director of the company. he is responsible for
managing the emergency. in his absence, production director shall be responsible. in the absence
of production director, human resources and management systems director and management
systems director manage the emergency. emergency director assigned for çerkezköy plant is
the plant manager and financial affairs director for the head office.

a protocol was signed with kocaeli metropolitan municipality fire station training center
(kobitem) in line with the 2015 training plan to train and improve employees for interventions
and actions to take during emergencies. employees involved in production had the priority to be
sent to a 16-hour training conducted at kobitem facilities.

also in 2015, a crisis committee was established for providing timely and proper information
to all our stakeholders during a potential crisis or emergency. senior managers included in this
body chaired by general manager received crisis communication training during the reporting
time. also, ak-kim crisis management and communication procedure were prepared within this
context.




                                                                                                     47

     appendix
     performance indicators tables
     employees                           unit         2014   2015
     total                               people       492    516
     professional level - female         people        92     99
     professional level – male           people        113    128
     operational level - female          people          7      7
     operational level - male            people        280    282
     by gender                           unit         2014   2015
                                         people         98    106
      female
                                         percentage   20%    21%
                                         people        394    410
      male
                                         percentage   80%    79%
     by age                              unit         2014   2015
                                         people        117    143
      30 and below
                                         percentage   24%    28%
                                         people        334    339
      30 - 50
                                         percentage   68%    66%
                                         people         41     34
      50 and over
                                         percentage    8%     7%
     by location                         unit         2014   2015
                                         people         48     48
      istanbul
                                         percentage   10%     9%
                                         people        420    444
      yalova
                                         percentage   85%    86%
                                         people         24     24
      çerkezköy
                                         percentage    5%     5%
     other groups                        unit         2014   2015
                                         people          1      1
      expat
                                         percentage    0%     0%
                                         people         12     12
      disabled
                                         percentage   12%    11%
     by management category              unit         2014   2015
                                         people          9      9
      senior management
                                         percentage    2%     2%
                                         people         52     59
      mid-level management
                                         percentage   11%    11%
                                         people         77     89
      non-executive professional level
                                         percentage   16%    17%
                                         people        354    359
      operational level
                                         percentage   72%    70%
     female employees in management      unit         2014   2015
      senior management                  percentage    2%     2%
      mid-level management               percentage   16%    15%
      non-executive professional level   percentage   37%    42%
      operational level                  percentage   45%    42%


48

new employee hires                         unit                                2014          2015

by gender                                  unit                                2014          2015
 female                                                                           8             18
                                           new employee - person
 male                                                                            30             53
by age                                     unit                                2014          2015
 30 and below                                                                    24             42
 30 - 50                                   new employee - person                 13             28
 50 and over                                                                      1                1
by location                                unit                                2014          2015
 istanbul                                                                         8             10
 yalova                                    new employee - person                 29             61
 çerkezköy                                                                        1                0




occupational health and safety                           all employees          female employees
occupational health and safety
                                        unit               2014      2015             2014   2015
trainings
 total ohs trainings                    hour               4.546    6.685              905   1.373
 people given ohs trainings             person              492          516            98    106
 hours of ohs trainings                 hour/person         10.6    13.78              9.2   12.95
accidents                               unit               2014      2015             2014   2015
 all injuries except first aid level    per year               4           5             0      0
 accidents involving death              per year               0           0             0
 accidents requiring medical report *   per year               0           2             0      0
 accident frequency                     rate                3.75         4.6             0      0
 accident severity                      rate                7.49    55.22                0      0
lost days                               unit               2014      2015             2014   2015
 lost days due to workplace accidents   day/year               8          62             0      0
 frequency of occupational diseases     day/year               0           0             0      0
 absenteeism / due to health issues     day/year           1.070    1.707              462    746




                                                                                                       49

     employees on maternal leave (2014)                                       total     female    male

     employees who earned the right for maternal leave                         3              3     0

     employees who had maternal leave                                          3              3     0

     employees who returned after maternal leave                               3              3     0

     employees who returned after maternal leave and worked for at least 12
                                                                               3              3     0
     months afterwards



     employees on maternal leave (2015)                                       total     female    male

     employees who earned the right for maternal leave                          9             9     0

     employees who had maternal leave                                           9             9     0

     employees who returned after maternal leave                                9             9     0

     employees who returned after maternal leave and worked for at least
                                                                                9             9     0
     12 months afterwards




     training investments in employees                unit                            2014         2015

     full-time employees                              unit                            2014         2015
     total training hours                             hours                           8,095       11,664

     total number of trainees                         people                           492          516

     senior and mid-level executive – female          average hours                    22.7         20.3

     senior and mid-level executive – male            average hours                    19.0         25.9

     non-executive professional level - female        average hours                    10.1         39.3

     non-executive professional level – male          average hours                     5.3         33.3

     operational level – female                       average hours                    1.44          9.3

     operational level – male                         average hours                    2.21             5




     training investments in employees                unit                            2014         2015

     by type of training                              unit                            2014         2015
     technical trainings                              hour                            6,513        8,573

     personal development trainings                   hour                            1,582        3,091




50

direct energy consumption based upon primary
energy source
non-renewable direct energy sources – purchased                unit                2014               2015
                                                               sm3             9,262,154        10,663,432
natural gas
                                                               gj               354,369            407,982
                                                               ton              121,298            135,815
diesel
                                                               gj                  2,733             3,061
                                                               ton               19,440             16,735
gasoline
                                                               gj                   438                377
total direct energy consumption                                gj               357,541            411,420

indirect energy consumption based upon primary energy source
energy purchased from non-renewable energy sources
                                                               unit                2014               2015
and consumed
                                                               kwh           151,003,430       143,469,203
 electricity
                                                               gj               543,608            516,485
 steam                                                         ton              548,232            551,862

total water consumption

source: dam water                                              unit                2014               2015

 water                                                         1,000 m3/yr          785                554

total waste water discharge

where: marmara sea                                             unit                2014               2015

waste water discharge                                          1,000 m3/yr          231              247.5

direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions
                                                               unit                2014               2015
direct co2 emissions                                           tco2e             10.850             16.457

indirect co2 emissions                                         tco2e             87.180             84.910

total co2 emissions                                            tco2e             98.030            101.367

major air emissions

by type                                                        unit                2014               2015

total (co, so2, no, no2, chlorine , powder, voc, tvoc, etc.)   1,000 kg/hr         12.95   not measured yet




                                                                                                              51

     general standard notices

     strategy and analysis

     g4-1 (ceo letter)                            pages 6-7

     organizational profile

     g4-3 (organization name)                     back cover page

     g4-4 (brands, products and services)         pages 9-11

     g4-5 (location)                              istanbul, turkey

     g4-6 (countries)                             pages 9-11

     g4-7 (legal form)                            incorporation

     g4-8 (markets)                               pages 9-11

     g4-9 (scale)                                 pages 9-11

     g4-10 (employee profile)                     page 48

     g4-11 (collective bargaining)                page 38

     g4-12 (supply chain)                         pages 40-46

                                                  no changes in company's capital structure during the
     g4-13 (changes)
                                                  operating period.

                                                  the company operates in compliance with all applicable
     g4-14 (precautionary approach)
                                                  laws and regulations.

     g4-15 (external principles)                  page 5

     g4-16 (memberships)                          page 14

     identified material aspects and boundaries

     g4-17 (entities reported)                    page 5

     g4-18 (process of aspect boundaries)         page 17

     g4-19 (material aspects)                     page 17

     g4-20 (aspect boundaries within)             page 5

     g4-21 (aspect boundaries outside)            page 5

     g4-22 (restatements)                         company management approach statements.

     g4-23 (changes in scope and boundaries)      no changes since the last report.




52

stakeholder engagement

g4-24 (stakeholders engaged)               page 19

g4-25 (identification of stakeholders)     page 19

g4-26 (engagement methods and frequency)   page 19

g4-27 (key topics of stakeholders)         page 19

report profile

g4-28 (reporting period)                   page 5

g4-29 (previous report)                    2013

g4-30 (reporting cycle)                    biennially

g4-31 (contact point)                      page 54

g4-32 (gri info)                           pages 52-53

g4-33 (external assurance)                 no external audits were conducted.

governance

g4-34 (governance structure)               pages 15-16

ethics and integrity

g4-56 (values)                             page 8




general standard notices

high priority items                        dma and indicators

employment                                 pages 37-46

occupational health and safety             pages 46-49

human and labor rights                     pages 37-46

product responsibility                     pages 34-35

energy and emissions                       pages 26- 31-32

waste water and other wastes               pages 28, 29




                                                                                53

     sibel keçeci
     human resources & management systems director
     sibel.bekler@akkim.com.tr


     ipek badırgalı
     corporate communications division manager
     ibadirgali@akkim.com.tr


     ece eriş
     management systems specialist
     ece.eris@akkim.com.tr




                            graphic design by




elif özkul gökmen           özge kaner
elif@sercomconsulting.com   ozgekaner@fikriferah.com
t: +90 533 648 07 40        t: +90 533 273 14 96

55

               ak-kim kimya sanayi ve tic. a.ş.

vişnezade mah. süleyman seba cad. no: 82 maçka-istanbul/türkiye
          t: +90(212) 381 71 00 - f: +90(212) 259 12 92

                      www.akkim.com.tr
