s u s ta i n a b i lt y r e p o r t
a l s t r i a o f f i c e r e i t- ag
e      d     i    t      i   o      n
2            0            1         4
there is no one-size-fits-all ap
proach to sustainability nor any
magic formula that can improve
the impact of any company on
its stakeholders improving our
non-financial results is an on
going process that only works
if it is done naturally. we will
have succeeded when, in a similar
fashion to monsieur jourdain in
the middle class gentlemen by
moliere, we will live sustainably
without even thinking about it
although our reporting is still
to be perfected, our approach
is starting to bear tangible re
sults. we have changed our en
ergy procurement policy and
are switching our entire con
tractinto renewable energy

                   content
              key metrics                           2
                                                   22
                                                   22
  company     management letter                  44 4
              about this report                     6
              alstria’s csr policy                  8
              alstria’s sustainability model       10
              stakeholder engagement               12
              governance, commitments and          22
              engagement                           22
                                                   32
                                                   32
 mundsburg    location and history                 32
ofﬁce tower   redevelopment                        34
              conclusions and achievements         35
                                                   40
                                                   40
   economy    economic performance                 40
                                                   40
                                                   40
environment   managing our portfolio sustainably   46
                                                   46
                                                   46
     social   social responsibility                62
                                                   62
                                                   62
  appendix    gri and epra content index           78
              property consumption data            86
              analysed assets                      90
              glossary                             92
              editorial comment                    96

alstria sustainability report 2014

   2    key metrics 2013




       key metrics 2013 (2012)
       change 2012 – 2013
                                                         lettable area
                                     76 (84) poperties   894 (929) k sqm

       economic performance




       market value
       eur 1.6 (1.6) bn

       revenues           +2.9%
       eur 104.2 (101.3) m/annum

       ffo                +3.9%
       eur 45.3 (43.6) m/annum




       contractual rent    +1.1%
       eur 106.7 (105.5) m/annum



       social performance




                                       24 (23) male employees




       44 (38) female employees       68            +11%
                                                    (61) employees

                              environmental performance
                              ghg intensity from building energy –21.0%
                              only landlord-obtained
vacancy –2.3pp       co2      5.12 (6.53) kg co2e/sqm/year
9.1 (11.4)%                   128.0 (163.3) kg co2e/workstation/year
of lettable area              coverage 51% (50%) of buildings




                              building water intensity           +21.9%
                              0.39 (0.32) cbm/sqm/year
                              9.7 (7.9) cbm/workstation/year
                              coverage 90% (88%) of buildings


                              building energy intensity        +1.0%
                              205 (203) kwh/sqm/year
                              5,113 (5,064) kwh/workstation/year
                              coverage 90% (88%) of buildings


                              building waste intensity           –15.2%
                              excluding construction waste
                              2.06 (2.43) kg/sqm/year
                              0.051 (0.061) t/workstation/year
                              coverage 68% (55%) of buildings




                                                    annual
          employee turnover           eur
          5.8 (10) %                                training
                                      2.0 k         costs per
          –4.2pp                      (2.1 k)       employee




                                    absence
                                                    –0.5pp
                                    +3.3 (3.8) %
female absence     male absence
4.0 (4.7) %        2.3 (2.3)%

alstria sustainability report 2014

   4    management letter




       ladies and gentlemen
       dear stakeholders
       there is no one-size-ﬁts-all approach to sustainability, nor any magic
       formula that can improve the impact of any company on its stake-
       holders. improving our non-ﬁnancial results is an ongoing process
       that only works if it is done naturally. we will have succeeded when,
       in a similar fashion to monsieur jourdain in the middle class gen-
       tlemen by moliere, we will live sustainably without even thinking
       about it.
       although our reporting is still to be perfected, our approach is starting
       to bear tangible results. we have changed our energy procurement
       policy and are switching our entire contract into renewable energy,
       and, whenever we have the opportunity and the possibility, changing
       our heating system into district heating. whenever we need to work
       on lighting, it becomes automatic to switch the systems to led, and
       if we work on a roof, the question of whether or not to implement
       solar panels also comes automatically.




                                   olivier elamine
                            chief executive ofﬁcer (ceo)

as a result of this our scope 1 and 2 emissions have gone down
dramatically, which earned alstria its ﬁrst cdp climate action award.
as we hinted last year, we have not been submitting data to the
global real estate sustainability benchmark (gresb) this year, as
our concerns have not been yet taken into consideration; however,
we have made the gresb data available on our website for those
of you who need them.
we hope you will enjoy reading this report as much as we have
enjoyed preparing it. we are always happy to engage with you on
any corporate social responsibility (csr ) topic, and look forward
to a constructive discussion.
                              kind regards




                          alexander dexne
                    chief financial ofﬁcer (cfo)

alstria sustainability report 2014

   6    company




       about this report
       h ow to r e a d t h is r ep o rt
       this is the ﬁfth sustainability report provided by alstria. the sustain-
       ability report provides its readers with the most valuable informa-
       tion, in the most efﬁcient way, about our engagement in the ﬁeld
       of sustainability. it aims to explain and illustrate our sustainability
       approach, which is based on the three-pillar concept. furthermore,
       we describe concrete measures within our sustainability framework
       and how we engaged in 2013. targets are therefore derived from
       these measures and monitored (for more information please refer
       to » pages 12 to 19).
       sustainability topics are also increasingly integrated in our annual
       report » part i and ii.



       r e p o r t i n g                              p e r i o d
       alstria reports annually on sustainability within the company. al-
       though publication dates differ, the sustainability reporting cycle is
       aligned with the ﬁnancial reporting cycle. this report covers activities
       of the ﬁnancial year 2013 (january 1, 2013, to december 31, 2013)
       and should be read together with the annual report 2013 » parts i
       and ii. the annual report is available on alstria’s website: » http://
       www.alstria.com/en/investors/reports-events/ﬁnancial-reports/
       date/2013/.

       whenever possible, we have provided 2012 and 2011 data. the
       report has been written in accordance with the global reporting
       initiative (gri) 3.1 guidelines and the construction and real estate
       sector supplement (cress), as well as the european public real
       estate association (epra) best practices recommendations on sus-
       tainability reporting.

scope                   of            reporting
alstria’s activities did not change over the reporting period and no
signiﬁcant changes are planned for the upcoming years. the consoli-
dated ﬁnancial statements of alstria ofﬁce reit-ag and its subsidiaries
(together the ‘alstria group’) have been prepared in accordance with
the international financial reporting standards (ifrs) of the inter-
national accounting standards board (iasb).
unless otherwise stated, economic and social data refer to the alstria
group.

environmental data refer to assets directly held by the alstria group
(excluding joint ventures). in order to align with the international
framework of the greenhouse gas (ghg) protocol initiative, we
follow the operational approach when it comes to data evaluation.
this approach clearly identiﬁes emissions where we have direct con-
trol over our own emissions and where emissions accrue due to the
company’s activity. scope 1 and scope 2 represent emissions which
are related to our operations, and scope 3 represents all emissions
that occur in the value chain. it also includes downstream activities
such as leased assets. the information from tenants’ consumption,
which is published under scope 3, depends on data that is provided
to us by our tenants. in addition, no adjustments for special circum-
stances were made, such as weather patterns or age of building.
the calculation methods and the number and share of assets included
in the calculation are stated in the notes for each relevant indicator.



like-for-like                              approach
not only do we report on the absolute consumption for each year,
but we also want to compare data on an annual basis. therefore we
use the like-for-like approach in our portfolio for better comparability
between the reported years. the like-for-like approach disregards
assets which have been added or excluded from the portfolio during
the reporting frame period and solely focuses on the ones that have
contributed during the entire period. we report on the like-for-like
changes with respect to the total consumption of our tenants for
electricity, heating, co2 emissions and water.
it should, however, be noted that the like-for-like comparison only
applies to the absolute indicators, whereas intensity indicators look
at the total portfolio at the date of reporting.

alstria sustainability report 2014

   8    company




       alstria’s
       csr policy
       alstria’s business model can be summarised as follows: we invest the
       company’s equity into real estate assets which we manage for the
       long term. our business cycle is long by deﬁnition. real estate time
       passes slowly. it can take up to four or ﬁve years to plan and prop-
       erly refurbish a property and lease it completely. the building itself
       should be designed to ﬁt tenants’ needs for the next 20 to 30 years.

       given the limited trading approach to our business, sustainability
       comes as a natural feature within alstria. any decision we make will
       inﬂuence the company for a long time. and most of the decisions
       are deﬁnitive. once a decision is executed, there is no turning back,
       no changes are possible or they are only marginal or very expensive.
       as a commercial organisation, our main goal is to yield the best
       risk-adjusted return on the equity of the company over time.

       our sustainability approach is based on the three-pillar model. any
       business decision will have an impact on each of the pillars. we will
       achieve the greatest proﬁt over time by following the middle path,
       which maximises the returns on each of the three pillars.

       any decision that considers environmental and social aspects will economy
       enhance the economics of alstria’s operations over the long run, as it
       will minimise the risk on the value of our assets and, in the best case
       scenario, improve the value by increasing the underlying land value.

       taking this into account allows us to reduce the speed of obsoles- environment
       cence of our assets and increase the attractiveness of our ofﬁces
       to our tenants.

       unlike other businesses, our success is tied to the location in which social
       we invest and therefore we have a vested interest in the strong
       development of the local community.

our aim is the further improvement of our data collection, data
measurement and, of course, the sustainability reporting itself on
an ongoing basis. we have, however, tried as much as possible to
underline the shortcuts which we have taken from time to time. the
decision to get approximate data was, in a limited number of cases,
also driven by the three-pillar approach. here we felt that the cost/
beneﬁt analysis was better as an estimation rather than providing
more precise ﬁgures.

as a listed and customer-oriented company, alstria has manifold
relationships with stakeholders involved in our business. our most
important stakeholders are our investors, our tenants, our employees
and the community in which we operate. we believe that each of
these stakeholder groups has a vested interest in each of the three
sustainability ﬁelds.

we always strive to work closely with stakeholders across a broad
front, creating shareholder value, working for the beneﬁt of our
tenants, providing a healthy and secure working environment and
enhancing the quality of life in the communities surrounding the
assets in which we invest.

alstria sustainability report 2014

10      company




       alstria’s
       sustainability
       model
       alstria’s sustainability model is based on the threepillar approach,
       with the impact of business based on the following pillars:




            › economy                › environment           › social
       our day-to-day business decisions can impact each and every one
       of alstria’s stakeholders directly or indirectly through one or other
       pillar. being sustainable means trying to strike the right balance for
       every stakeholder, and every pillar.




                                        people          planet
                                           social       environment



                                                          community




                                       employees



          investors                      returns (economy)                      neighbours
                                                             tenants

                       o u r             s u s ta i n a b i l i t y
                       fr a me work is ba sed on our
                       s ta k e h o l d e r e n g a g e m e n t
                       with our ﬁrst sustainability report we set up a framework which
                       explains our approach towards csr, our stakeholder engagement
                       and the impact of alstria’s csr policy on our daily business. the
                       framework provides a basis for continual improvement in the future,
                       to achieve our goals and set new ones as we move forward.

key achievements in 2013, the ‘green lease’ project group was awarded the sustain-
                 ability award 2013 by the ‘immobilienmanager’ for its excellent and
                 interdisciplinary work on the ‘green lease’ recommendations. in
                 addition, we began to change the energy supplier for our properties
                 to 100% ‘green electricity’, which is produced without any emissions.
                 in 2013, 21% of our portfolio was supplied by it. in the future we will
                 increase the number of ‘green supplied’ properties, with the aim of
                 switching all our electricity procurement to emission-free electricity.
                 furthermore, the company continued to support its employees by
                 improving standards in administration and recruiting and setting up
                 new programmes and initivatives. one such programme is a family
                 advice service, which alstria has offered to its employees since the
                 beginning of 2013. another achievement concerning alstria’s em-
                 ployees is the successful implementation of a trainee programme as
                 from may 2013.

        challenges even if we make progress, data gathering was, is and will be one of
                   our greatest challenges in the future, as energy consumption and
                   ghg emissions within our portfolio are mainly produced by our ten-
                   ants. we therefore rely on their cooperation and share the responsi-
                   bility to reduce energy consumption and ghg emissions.

    future targets our goal is to identify room for improvement within our sustainability
                   framework, take the right actions, monitor the progress and continu-
                   ally improve. it is a matter of course that we report on our progress,
                   which is stated on each stakeholder group under ‘how we engage’.
                   instead of resting on our laurels, we further develop our targets in line
                   with the existing ones and try to improve our sustainable engagement
                   and transparency in reporting. by 2015, we aim to evaluate 100%
                   of our assets, monitor the data and derive measures.

alstria sustainability report 2014

12      company




       stakeholder
       engagement
       considering the different needs and focuses
       of each of our stakeholders, our approach to
       sustainability aims at ﬁnding the right balance
       between the needs of each stakeholder
       group.




       i n v e s t o r s t                                    e    n     a       n      t      s

       we stand for                                      we stand for
       › creating sustainable value and sustainable › a good and long-term tenant relationship
         investment decisions                         › our own property management
       › transparency and relialibility towards our › direct communication with our tenants
         shareholders                                 › full support of tentants’ requirements
       › a direct contact to our shareholders         › efﬁcient and sustainable ofﬁce space
       › regular ﬁnancial and sustainable reporting › regular site visits by our teams
         as well as press conferences                 › regular meetings and constructive discus-
       › the participation in industry discussions for sions with our tenants
         relevant reporting indicators
       › discussions on road shows and property
         tours
       › modern communication tools such as fa-
         cebook and twitter

      targets                                     targets
      › increase the basis of energy consumption › enable our tenants to get direct access to
        and ghg emission data of our assets to       relevant data by 2016
        100 % by 2015 (scope 1 and 2)              › implement a ‘green lease’ clause in our
      › meet all global reporting initiative (gri) standard contracts
        criteria by 2015                           › improve our technical asset management
      › report annually on carbon footprint to the by 2016
        carbon disclosure project (cdp), on 100 %
        of our assets by 2015 (scope 1 and 2)

e m p l o y e e s c o m m u n i t y

we stand for                                we stand for
› equal opportunities, health management, › being a responsible citizen
  as well as a strong team spirit           › respecting the interests and quality of life
› a constantly improving human resource of communities
  management process                        › the support of local economy, entrepre-
› speciﬁc training and fostering of talents neurs and initiatives
› talent management, individual support and › our code of conduct, which deﬁnes our
  the personal development of our emplo-      legal guidelines and supports our commit-
  yees                                        ment to integrity
› flat hierarchies and open communication › beneﬁcial rental agreements for social and
› a diverse workforce                         cultural facilities
› a ﬂexible working time model


targets                                  targets
› keep annual employee turnover rate be- › support at least two social and cultural
  low 10 %                                  projects per year by providing vacant space
› improve standardised administration and at preferential terms
  recruiting processes                    › improve market transparency by suppor-
› implement management by objectives        ting at least two transparency initiatives
                                          › be continuously involved in academic stu-
                                            dies and support at least one academic
                                            research work every year

alstria sustainability report 2014

14      company




       our investors
       values
       › promote transparency
       › retain reliability
       › create long-term value

       our cash ﬂow strategy enables us to conduct capital increases and optimise cash
       allows an attractive dividend policy.                                   ﬂow generation
       based on recent transactions and a tight cost control, alstria was able
       to strengthen its cash ﬂow. for ﬁnancial year 2013 we were able to
       keep the dividend per share at eur 0.50 (2012: eur 0.50 per share).

       creating sustainable value means investing in the existing assets to maintain the
       maintain the quality of our portfolio.                               quality of the
       in 2013, we invested around eur 14.5 m (2012: eur 12.9 m) in portfolio
       ongoing refurbishment projects (excluding joint ventures). of this
       eur 14.5 m, around eur 6.5 m refers to development projects. the
       main part of investment was connected to the refurbishment of the
       hamburg buildings holstenhof (kaiser-wilhelm-straße 79 – 87) and
       schaartor (schaartor 1), as well as the property at arndtstraße 1 in
       hanover.

       we show our industry leadership by taking an active role in the act proactively
       market.                                                                 on the market
       alstria’s investor relations activities continued to focus on informing
       investors, ﬁnancial analysts and the business press about alstria’s
       development. we had more than 200 meetings with investors and
       analysts, and presented the company on 31 investor conferences,
       seminars or roadshows.

       alstria’s acquisition strategy is focused on assets that we feel present optimise
       the most attractive risk-return proﬁle in the current market.            risk-return matrix
       in 2013, we sold eight assets in smaller cities, which did not belong
       to our core investment regions, and immediately reinvested the funds
       in our strategic core areas düsseldorf and stuttgart.

take tomorrow’s we consider sustainable refurbishment for every development pro-
      needs into ject, as it is an investment for a lifetime.
   consideration by mid-2014, the refurbishment and modernisation process of the
                 historic building holstenhof in hamburg will be completed. while
                 safeguarding its historical look, the building will meet all requirements
                 of a modern ofﬁce building. therefore, it will achieve a certiﬁcation as
                 a green building according to breeam (establishment environmental
                 assessment methodology) standards.

favour long-term alstria only invests in assets which will sustain our growth require-
   view to short- ments and deliver returns over a long time.
      term trade based on a survey of ipd (investment property database), alstria’s
                  property portfolio has delivered the highest total return relative to the
                  german ofﬁce benchmark annualised over three years 2011 to 2013.

 implement best- we constantly improve our reporting to better meet investors’ and
in-class reporting stakeholders’ needs.
                   alstria has been awarded for its transparent and best-in-class report-
                   ing by various organisations.

  improve corpo- a growing interest of our investors in the sustainable approach of
 rate governance alstria increases our own engagement in sustainability reporting.
and transparency we continued to report our carbon emissions and climate change
                 strategy to the ‘carbon disclosure project’ which aims to set up a
                 global database for carbon emissions.

alstria sustainability report 2014

16      company




       our tenants
       values
       › maintain long-term tenant relationships
       › improve transparency and property management
       › provide efﬁcient and sustainable of space

       a structured property management ensures the quality of our work       enhance trans-
       and improves communication with our tenants.                           parency in terms
       over recent years, alstria has continuously integrated property man-   of invoicing and
       agement into its value chain, allowing a better communication with     reporting
       our tenants.

       we organise regular meetings with our key tenants to maintain a maintain
       constant dialogue.                                                   constant dialogue
       in 2013, alstria maintained constant dialogue with key decision mak-
       ers at the level of our tenants.

       it is a matter of course to have a close relationship with our tenants understand ten-
       for a better mutual understanding.                                     ants’ needs and
       in our daily work we ensure that our real estate operations teams deliver solutions
       are always available to respond to tenant concerns and to develop
       ideas and solutions.

       we are engaged in different working groups to pursue opportunities     encourage
       to reduce a building’s environmental footprint.                        tenants to adopt
       the ‘green leases’ working group continued improving the regu-         sustainable
       latory recommendations for landlords and tenants which include,        behaviour
       among other things, measures for energy saving or regulations of
       utility costs to support sustainable behaviour.

    sustainable alstria’s development projects are focused on the sustainable mod-
    certiﬁcation ernisation of existing buildings.
       of assets for our development project ‘holstenhof’ (in hamburg), which
                 started 2013 and is going to be ﬁnished in 2014, we aim to achieve
                 a breeam ‘good’ certiﬁcation.

optimisation of a ﬂexible ﬂoor plan allows us to realise various ofﬁce concepts for
 workspace use our tenants. in cooperation with our tenants, we respond to their
                individual needs.
                alstria has two employees working full-time on ofﬁce planning.
                in 2013 they worked on around 520 ofﬁce plannings projects for
                our tenants.

        improve a comprehensive and improved data management allows efﬁcient
     knowledge processes within the company.
   of the assets alstria improves its it infrastructure constantly in order to have a
                 detailed and extensive overview of all important data and to enhance
                 data management.

alstria sustainability report 2014

18      company




       our employees
       values
       › support entrepreneurship
       › encourage initiative
       › promote equal chances

       we believe in positive and respectful communication, a cooperative fair and balanced
       management style and we focus on developing our employees.         hr policy
       the management board pays attention to diversity in management
       positions. as at december 31, 2013, 44 % of these positions were
       held by female employees.

       alstria offers a convertible proﬁt participation rights programme as      remuneration
       part of the overall remuneration package to its employees. this allows    package includes
       our employee to participate in the future success of the company          share-based
       and the development of its shareprice.                                    component
       of the 97,300 certiﬁcates issued in 2013, the market conditions were
       fulﬁlled until the end of the ﬁnancial year 2013. total expenses relat-
       ing to convertible proﬁt participation rights were eur 665 k in 2013.

       as a growing company we feel responsible for encouraging and encourage team
       maintaining a team relationship and for keeping up the team spirit relationship
       of a dynamic start-up-culture.
       alstria holds a team workshop every year. each department introduces
       new projects. additional teambuilding measures, open-space and
       open-door policies strengthen the corporate climate.

 non-discrimina- we value diversity in our workforce, and seek to create an environ-
     tion policy ment that allows us to recruit and retain a diverse workforce.
                 our non-discrimination policy is described in the code of conduct
                 which is presented to every employee on a yearly basis.

          support we believe that training our employees regularly forms the basis for
        education sustaining a high level of know-how and motivation.
                  in 2013, we implemented a trainee programme to support the edu-
                  cation of young professionals. each employee also received 25 hours
                  of training. we offer workshops, internal training as well as individual
                  support each year.

take into account we use several strategies and tactics to engage with employees. our
      employees’ management style is based on intensive communication to meet
   speciﬁc needs employees’ needs.
                  our employee turnover rate was 5.8% in 2013. we see this as a re-
                  sult of our new management structures and employee engagement.

alstria sustainability report 2014

20      company




       community
       values
       › be responsible citizens
       › support local economy
       › remain fair and open partner

       our refurbishment projects strive to strike the right balance between support and
       the spirit of the asset and its history, and its future needs to meet maintain histori-
       tenant demand for the foreseeable future.                             cal buildings
       since end 2012, alstria has been busy refurbishing the holstenhof, a
       listed art noveau building erected in 1900/01, thus creating unique,
       modernised ofﬁce spaces in the centre of hamburg.

       we work hand-in-hand with local authorities during a development participate in city
       process. only the close collaboration of all involved parties will lead redevelopment
       to success.
       in cooperation with its joint venture partner quantum, alstria
       has refurbished the kaisergalerie, which is located in hamburg’s
       high street area and will accommodate ﬁrst-class retail stores
       from 2014. our engagement supports the efforts of the city of
       hamburg to further improve the attractiveness of the bid (busi-
       ness improvement district) ‘passagenviertel’ in the inner city.

       we strategically engage third-party local suppliers for our develop- engage with local
       ment projects as well as for the regular maintenance of our buildings. suppliers
       we have a responsible contracting policy and engage, whenever
       possible, local smes (small and medium-sized enterprises). further-
       more alstria is conducting a green list, comprising suppliers that have
       proven to be reliable. in 2013, we continued to working with local
       smes and hired 689 local suppliers.

       alstria runs a perennial review and investment plan for the ﬁre and improve health,
       safety measures in its assets.                                         safety and
       in 2013, we invested around eur 700 k in measures which were environment
       solely focused on improving the safety of our assets for its occupiers
       (2012: eur 400 k).

   engage in best-   we regard responsible and transparent corporate governance as a
in-class corporate   central challenge and indispensable prerequisite for the creation of
       governance    sustainable value for shareholders and stakeholders.
         measures    alstria meets the highest standards in corporate governance. in 2012,
                     the company implemented the new corporate governance guidelines
                     regarding the independence of the supervisory board. the implemen-
                     tation of those new guidelines was reviewed and conﬁrmed in 2013.

     engage with     alstria is engaged in several discussion groups regarding issues such
   local, national   as accounting, sustainability, transparency and climate protection.
and international    in 2013, alstria joined the ‘umweltpartnerschaft hamburg’ to work
    organisations    on and discuss different eco-political topics. alstria actively supports
                     the working groups of epra (european public real estate associ-
                     ation) and the gri, who are continuously enhancing sustainability
                     reporting standards. alstria also continued to participate in a number
                     of public comment consultations from the european union, the
                     iasb, gri, bafin and esma.

         support we support research concerning real estate by funding certain studies
     fundamental and by providing relevant data.
            r&d alstria continued to fund the ‘competence center real estate invest-
                 ment trust’ at the ebs university, real estate management institute
                 (remi). in close cooperation with the university, alstria supported
                 students in preparing their dissertations.

alstria sustainability report 2014

22      company




       governance,
       commitments
       and engagement
       co r p o r at e                   governance
       good corporate governance is an essential precondition for the
       company’s success. it provides a legal and factual framework and
       promotes transparency, accountability, dealing appropriately with
       risks and sound business practices.
       alstria complies with the german corporate governance code. the
       company’s declaration of compliance with the recommendations of
       the german corporate governance code is published on alstria’s web-
       site: » www.alstria.com/en/investors/corporate-governance/code/

       a full description of the structure and the functioning of the su-
       pervisory board and management board, including their purpose,
       powers, limitations, activities and remuneration policies, is printed
       in the annual report for the ﬁnancial year ended december 31,
       2013 » part ii/ii, pages 100 to 117. the annual report can also be
       found at » http://www.alstria.com/en/investors/reports-events/
       ﬁnancial-reports/date/2013/



       ethics                   and        compliance
       as the good reputation of alstria and the trust of our business part-
       ners, shareholders, employees and of the public crucially depends
       on the behaviour of each of our employees, alstria’s management
       and its employees are committed to a code of conduct. the correct
       behaviour for all employees of the group is thus deﬁned. in 2012,
       the regulations within the code of conduct were updated. the
       new regulations were explained and illustrated to all employees on
       the basis of compliance training. in 2013 there have not been any
       further updates to the code of conduct.

                    the employee handbook consists, among others, of the following
                    guidelines:

1. code of          › general requirements of behaviour:
   conduct             – legal compliance
                       – no acceptance/granting of advantages, which also includes
                         business relations with tenants, service providers and other bu-
                         siness partners
                       – ‘green list’ of approved suppliers
                       – leadership and example: executives have, in their exemplary
                         function, a responsibility to be compliant with the code of con-
                         duct
                       – conﬂicts of interests
                       – insider information
                       – no discrimination
                       – whistle-blower hotline

2. procurement      › ensure the centrally controlled, structured procurement and the
                      purchase of technical material and the continuous documentation
                      of the observance of competence guidelines

3. equal treatment › implementation of equal opportunities within the company for
   of employees        employees
   and prohibition › means for avoiding discrimination
   of discrimination › obligations under this guideline
                     › new hiring
                     › remuneration
4. prohibition of   › responsibility for adhering to these guidelines
   harassment at    › the role of the management board and supervisors
   the workplace    › the role of employees
                    › the role of the company
                    › special complaint and investigation procedures
5. money            › guidelines to sensitise all employees to money laundering and
   laundering         to ensure that money laundering is prevented
                    › reporting and record-keeping obligations
                    › rules of conduct

alstria sustainability report 2014

24      company




       co r p o r at e                    governance
       the employee handbook is distributed to all employees, who are
       asked to conﬁrm their acceptance of its terms in writing. the code
       of conduct is presented during periodic compliance training. the
       training programme was set up to reinforce employees’ awareness
       of the requirements of the compliance book, containing the code
       of conduct as well as the company’s internal policies. this training
       programme takes place on a regular basis. since 2011, the range
       concerning procurement and signatures, as well as the four-eyes
       principle, has been part of the training programme.

       alstria has set up a compliance organisation to further strengthen the
       implementation of alstria’s ethical standards within the company.
       the compliance ofﬁcer reports directly to the chairman of the
       management board. employees with concerns about compliance
       or ethics are invited to contact the compliance ofﬁcer directly or
       via an external whistle-blower hotline, through which employees
       can anonymously report any violations of the code of conduct or
       the company’s internal guidelines. our code of conduct is explicit
       in the protection of the whistle-blower. no incidents were reported
       to this line in 2013.

       our compliance organisation collects all complaints, breaches and
       actions taken relating to the code of conduct, all company policies
       or any unlawful behaviour and initiates needed actions or ﬁnes. as
       a result, in 2013 one contractual partner did not act in compliance
       with alstria’s code of conduct and the contractual relationship had
       to be terminated.

       with respect to certain activities which are considered as having a
       high compliance risk, alstria evaluates its service providers before
       entering into a business relationship with them. we have therefore
       established a ‘green list’ which includes all the providers with whom
       the company is allowed to enter into a business relationship. con-
       tractors on the green list have been screened for reputation and
       market behaviour prior to the company engaging in any business.
       alstria adheres to national and european regulations on the reporting
       of compliance breaches to ﬁnancial authorities.

risks            and           opportunities
alstria has implemented a structured risk management and an early
warning system in accordance with section 91 (2) of the german
stock corporation act (aktg). all risks are recorded, evaluated and
monitored on an at least quarterly basis.

the aim of alstria group’s risk management strategy is to minimise
or, where possible, completely avoid the risks associated with entre-
preneurial activity in order to safeguard the group against potential
losses and risks. for alstria, risk management is the targeted securing
of existing and future potential for success, along with improving
the quality of the company’s planning processes.

for a detailed description of the company’s risk management, please
refer to the section ‘report on risks and opportunities’ in the annual
report 2013 » part ii/ii, pages 19 to 27.

in order to ensure a useful identiﬁcation of risks and opportunities, it
is necessary to cope with all relevant risks which result from changes
and events out of internal and external processes.

from a sustainable point of view, we consider potential consequences
of climate change in our risk and business strategy. as a real estate
owner, and a long-term holder of assets, alstria takes a long-term
view on its standing investments. within its investment decisions, the
company takes into consideration the expected change in behaviour
of its customers (corporate tenants) over a period of 10 to 20 years.

to counter the climate change and to protect the environment, we
try to focus on upgrading existing buildings into more modern and
more environmentally friendly ones and not to cover green land
with buildings.

alstria sustainability report 2014

26      company




       we believe that climate change, increased energy costs and changes
       in human behaviour will fundamentally change the way the urban
       landscape is constructed over time. our scale of time is long enough
       to consider the concrete effects of climate change on day-to-day life.
       speciﬁc consideration is taken of the accessibility of alstria’s assets
       by public transportation, or integration of these assets within a living
       environment which provides access to essential day-to-day needs,
       limiting the usage of cars.

       considering the long-term nature of our business, and the immov-
       able nature of our assets, it is important to take into consideration
       the development of climate change on our future prospects.

       the following potential sustainable risks and the methods to pre-
       vent these risks demonstrate the importance of dealing with climate
       change and its potential future effects for alstria.



       the following opportunities result from the risks described:
       › increasing the attractiveness of our assets in the leasing markets
       › better control on the speed of obsolescence of the assets
       › safeguarding historical assets and architectural patrimonial value
       as we are aware of alstria’s responsibility towards its stakeholders, we
       do not only consider economic risks and opportunities within our risk
       management approach, but also environmental and social issues for
       the company’s long-term success. alstria aims to identify proposals
       for improvements and to take corrective measures when necessary.

        driven by regulation
risks   › strict legislation amendments
           – energy saving regulation (enev) in germany
           – energy transition in germany with the conclusion of the with-
             drawal from nuclear power by 2022
        › energy efﬁciency will be affected
           – by 2020, 30 % of the electricity should come from renewable
             energies
        › high investments in building and construction of the assets at the
          required level
methods › monitor legislative risks in order to take these necessary changes
          into consideration when we acquire or refurbish an asset
        › invest in monitoring systems to improve the sustainability data
          gathering
        › engage in regulatory and economic lobby groups
        › invest in the assets to keep them on a contemporary level
        driven by changes in physical climate system*
risks   › more extreme events, such as heat periods, changes in temperature
          extremes, high signiﬁcant precipitation, heavy wind speeds and
          heavy hail
        › sea level rise
methods › monitor climate change on an ongoing process
        › take advantage of the weather extremes, e. g. use of solar cells,
          rainwater tank, recycling rainwater

        driven by changes in other climate-related developments
risks   › changes in tenants’ behaviour requiring ‘green rental space’
        › failure to understand and respond to the communication needs
          of investors and analysts
        › failure to ﬁnd and retain tenants, because of changing climate
          awareness
methods › consideration of assets’ location within their environment at the
          time of an acquisition
        › one of our acquisition criteria is the access to existing or planned
          public transportation
        › early recognition of the ﬁnancial needs to upgrade a building
        › consideration of tenants’ climate-related demands
        › encourage tenants to adopt sustainable behaviour
        › support and maintain historical buildings
        › sustainable certiﬁcation of assets


            * source: federal environment agency.

alstria sustainability report 2014

28      company




       engagement in sustainabilit y
       alstria is engaged in the highest level of industry discussions with
       regard to sustainability. the management board of alstria has been
       involved in the gri g4 emission working group, helping to develop
       the new g4 standard. the gri g4 offers reporting principles, stand-
       ard disclosures and an implementation manual for the preparation
       of sustainability reports.

       furthermore, alstria has been involved in several working groups at
       the european public real estate association (epra), including the
       epra sustainability committee. epra is a well-known international
       index which tracks the performance of the largest european and
       north american listed property companies. it represents the inter-
       ests of the major european property management companies and
       supports the development and market presence of these companies.

       for our results, we have been rated as ‘prime’ in the real estate
       sector by the oekom research ag. oekom research ag is one of the
       world’s leading rating agencies and provides a crucial advantage in
       the segment of sustainable investments. the classiﬁcation as ‘prime’
       qualiﬁes our market-traded securities as a sustainable investment
       from an environmental and social point of view.

       alstria is also a member of the german sustainable building council
       (‘deutsche gesellschaft für nachhaltiges bauen’, dgnb).

       finally, we engage with our stakeholders on sustainability issues on
       our corporate blog » www.alstria.blogspot.com and twitter » www.
       twitter.com/alstria_reit, facebook » www.facebook.com/alstriareit,
       and youtube » www.youtube.com/alstria.

                 awa r d s a n d ac h i e v e m e n t s
                 alstria was ranked highly in numerous national and international
                 surveys for its engagement, projects and reporting.

sustainability   › the ‘green lease’ project group was awarded the sustainability
       award       award by the ‘immobilienmanager’ for its work on the ‘green
                   lease‘ recommendations

social media     › social media award by dr. zitelmannpb for the best facebook
                   network 2013

        epra     › epra gold award for our annul report 2013
                 › epra bronze award for our sustainability report 2013
          ipd    › specialist property investment award 2013 for germany, for the
                   best annualised total return for a german ofﬁce portfolio in the
                   period 2010 – 2012



                 alstria is a member of the
                 f o l low i n g                o rg a n i s at i o n s
                 german sustainable                european public
                 building council                  real estate association




                 zentraler immobilien              umweltpartnerschaft
                 ausschuss                         hamburg

mundsburg
o f f i c e to w e r

the mundsburg ofﬁce tower was erected
between 1969 and 1971 and is situated
between the two hamburg districts,
uhlenhorst and barmbek. as a mixed-
use building it houses ofﬁces, residences
and a shopping centre. with its height of
approximately 100 m the ofﬁce tower is one
of hamburg’s tallest and best-known ofﬁce
buildings in the city.
after 40 years of existence without any
substantial refurbishment, the building
was entirely redeveloped by alstria between
2010 and 2012.

alstria sustainability report 2014

32      mundsburg ofﬁce tower




       lo c at i o n                   and            history
       the name ‘mundsburg’ refers to an area in hamburg that is situated
       in the hamburg district barmbek-süd. the three nearly 100-m-high
       tower buildings of the mundsburg are widely visible in the silhouette
       of hamburg. they mark the entrance to barmbek. the ensemble is
       listed as one of hamburg’s historic monuments.

       the name of the area is dated to the former owner and wine mer-
       chant johann heinrich mund. in 1721 he bought the farmyard
       ‘immenhöfe’ on the left side of the river alster and built his main
       farm building. the homestead was named after him, ‘mundsburg’
       and was used as a farm with some livestock. during the industri-
       alisation of the 19th century the area evolved rapidly and at the
       beginning of the 20th century, the city expanded and it developed
       into a heavily built-up city district.

       the historical buildings along the hamburger straße with around
       300 shops and restaurants were completely destroyed during world
       war ii. in the 1950s the idea arose to combine all properties along
       the street into one big development with a shopping mall and
       ofﬁce/residential towers. the shopping mall opened in 1970 and
       still operates under the name ‘hamburger meile’. the mundsburg
       is the head building of this development and the ﬁrst building block
       in this district coming from the city centre.

       with ofﬁce, residential, shopping and sport activities under one roof,
       the mundsburg represents the life style model of the 1970s. in the
       late ‘90s the base building was modiﬁed and after an additional
       multiplex cinema was added, the links connections were destroyed.
       today the mundsburg consists of approximately 12,500 sqm shop-
       ping mall, the residential tower with 165 apartments, the ofﬁce
       tower and 300 car parking spaces.

                 the location and infrastructure of the mundsburg within the city of
                 hamburg is ideal. close by is a metro station, bicycle speed lanes,
                 two parking houses and, with the local suppliers in the mall and the
                 other utilities, this historical site can be rated as a very attractive
                 urban district.

                 after completion of the mundsburg ofﬁce tower in mid 2013, alstria
                 began redeveloping the base structure of the mundsburg center. in
                 2015 this redevelopment will be ﬁnished and the whole of munds-
                 burg will be restored to its former glory.



                 building key facts ofﬁce tower

                 year of construction 1969 – 1973
                 redevelopment tower 2010 – 2012
                 redevelopment center 2013 – 2015




ofﬁce tower                              lettable area approx. 9,500 sqm
4–24th ﬂoor




                                                 location
                                                 hamburger straße 1–15
                                                 22083 hamburg, germany

shopping mall/                           lettable area approx. 12,200 sqm
base building
1–3rd ﬂoor

alstria sustainability report 2014

34      mundsburg ofﬁce tower




       r e d e v e l o p m e n t
       the redevelopment of the building was necessary given that after
       40 years of use, the ofﬁce areas did not meet today’s demands for
       a modern and economic working space. the energy efﬁciency and
       sustainability of the building were especially suboptimal.

       the main aim was to create ﬂexible ofﬁce spaces with state-of-the-
       art building services. the interior space was completely redesigned
       and the ofﬁce structure optimised with a much improved comfort
       level, although more work stations could still be implemented.

       to enhance the overall energy efﬁciency of the building, the façade
       needed to be completely rebuilt and improved for the winter and
       summer periods. it was essential that the character of the façade was
       not changed as the tower is listed as a monument building. after the
       development, the mundsburg ofﬁce tower is again fully integrated
       into its surroundings and embodies a major point of reference within
       the cityscape of hamburg.

       an essential element of the technical modernisation was the complete
       replacement of all building services. all components were in a very
       poor condition and therefore very inefﬁcient. due to an upgraded
       façade the new building services are very efﬁcient and energy-saving.
       the ofﬁce users have a much higher comfort level with these systems.
       the existing foyer needed a redesign as it was very small and
       non-representative. now the lobby is generous, bright, inviting and
       suitable for wheelchair use.

       › replacement of existing façade with a new metal curtain wall with in detail
         triple glazing and integrated sunshades. the remaining parapet
         was thermally insulated.

       › redesign of the interior with raised ﬂoors, lightweight partition
         walls, new doors and heating/cooling ceilings for maximum ﬂe-
         xibility.

       › refurbishment of all sanitary installations and ﬁxtures.
       › new heating, mechanical ventilation with heat recovery, instru-
         mentation and control, electric services and lighting.

       › redesign of the entry foyer.

conclusions and achievements
since the beginning of 2013 the building has been occupied and,
for the ﬁrst time after the redevelopment, the energy consumption
is metered. in 2013 more than half of the building was let which is
nearly the same situation as before the redevelopment. therefore
the consumption from 2008/2009 can be easily compared with the
consumption from the year 2013.

it was important to verify if the theoretical design calculation was
met in practice.



theoretical energy consumption 2010


     50        100   150   200   250    300       350   400   450



        70           78 % savings         321
       kwh/sqm   251 kwh/sqm a            kwh/sqm

       after     2,539,710 kwh            before
       redevelopment                      redevelopment
       70 kwh/sqm a                       321 kwh/sqm a
       713,745 kwh/a                      3,253,452 kwh/a



metered energy consumption 2013


     50        100   150   200   250    300       350   400   450



      57             81% savings         305
     kwh/sqm     248 kwh/sqm a          kwh/sqm

     after       2,509,600 kwh          before
     redevelopment                      redevelopment
     57 kwh/sqm a                       305 kwh/sqm a
     576,328 kwh/a                      3,085,928 kwh/a

alstria sustainability report 2014

36      mundsburg ofﬁce tower




       what impact does green certiﬁcation have?
       the mundsburg ofﬁce tower was one of the ﬁrst assets in germany
       to achieve a dgnb silver certiﬁcation (for refurbishment of existing
       building). however, the performance described herein was not the
       result of the certiﬁcation process. the green building process did not
       per se add anything to the building efﬁciency and its performance,
       as it had little impact on the technical planning of the asset. neither
       it did materially impact the leasing prospect of the asset, as the
       pre-let of the building was achieved pre-certiﬁcation. as such this
       ﬁrst experience that alstria had with green building tends to sustain
       our initial feeling that green certiﬁcation in germany is much more
       about communication and marketing than it is about improving the
       environmental footprint.


       district heating consumtion in mwh/year                                   heating

       before redevelopment                                           3,086
       after redevelopment             576
       savings                                                 – 81 %

       the actual consumption for heating in 2013 conﬁrms the saving po-
       tentials of the design calculation. approximately 80% of the heating
       energy could be saved as predicted. this is equivalent to approx-
       imately 2,500,000 kwh (2.5 gwh) per year and corresponds to
       the energy consumption of approximately 170 typical households*.
       thanks to the redevelopment of the ofﬁce tower the co2-emission
       can be reduced by 1,103 t per year.

                                                                                 2.5 gwh / year
                                                                                        =
                                                                                 heating of 170
                                                                                 households/year
                                                                                       =
                                                                                 reduction of
                                                                                 1,103 co2t / year




       * www.destatis.de

     electricity electricity consumption (common areas) in mwh/year

                     before redevelopment                                                   481
                     after redevelopment                            198
                     savings                                                – 59 %

                     after the modernisation, the electricity consumption in the common
                     areas was reduced by more than half. this positive outcome is due to
                     the usage of modern building services like new mechanical ventila-
                     tion, new lifts and led-lighting. in 2013 approximately 284,000 kwh
                     of electricity was saved. this relates to the electricity consumption
                     of approximately 95 typical households*. the co2-emission was
                     reduced by 125 t / year.
284 mwh / year
          =
 electricity of 95
households/year
         =
    reduction of
 125 co2t / year



     gross rent                               additional
                                          service charge               gross rent
                     before redevelopment      7– 8 € /sqm               18 € /sqm
                     after redevelopment          3 € /sqm               19 € /sqm

                     the redevelopment of the mundsburg ofﬁce tower not only helps
                     to reduce large amounts of carbon dioxide emission every year but
                     it also offers state-of-the-art ofﬁces for nearly the same gross rent
                     as prior to the refurbishment.
                     beforehand a typical tenant was paying around 7 to 8 € per sqm for
                     additional service charges including heating/cooling and common
                     areas electricity. thanks to the replacement of the façade and building
                     services, these additional charges could be reduced to just 3 €/sqm,
                     even though the energy prices grew substantially in the last couple
                     of years. having new designed ofﬁces with much improved work-
                     ing conditions, the gross rent (net rent + additional service charges)
                     increased only marginally from about 18 €/sqm to approx. 19 €/sqm.
                      it appears that a substantial redevelopment like the mundsburg
                     ofﬁce tower doesn’t necessarily lead to additional costs for the
                     tenants. a win-win-win situation for the environment, the tenants
                     and alstria!
                     * energieagentur nrw: ‘wo bleibt der strom?’ (pdf), düsseldorf 2011.

we act reliably and generate profit in a
responsible manner. our economic approach
regarding sustainability always takes into
account the consequences of our actions in
order to fulﬁl the responsibility towards our
stakeholders. this is an important approach
to create long-term conﬁdence and success.


alstria sustainability report 2014

40      economy




       economic
       performance
       the            financial                          year                2 0 13
       in the ﬁnancial year 2013 alstria developed according to plan. both
       revenues (approximately eur 104 m) and funds from operations
       (ffo) (approximately eur 45 m) were in line with the forecast for
       the reporting period. our revenues grew by 2.9% and our ffo per
       share improved by 4.0%. based on our very consistent strategy, we
       have been able to annually increase our ffo per share by on average
       8.2% since 2010, despite the letting market environment being ﬂat.

       in 2013, we reﬁnanced more than two-thirds of our debt. in early financial
       june we issued our ﬁrst convertible bond at a volume of eur 79 m, activities
       and in late september we managed the early extension of our syn-
       dicated loan with a volume of eur 544 m. the average maturity of
       our total debt more than doubled to 5.3 years.

       investment decisions at alstria are based on the analyses of the acquisitions
       local markets and on the adequacy of a building within its local
       environment in terms of location, size and quality. alstria’s strategy
       is to enter new markets and build critical mass through long-term
       secured assets. in light of this approach, in 2013 alstria added two
       properties and approximately 16,900 sqm of lettable space to the
       portfolio, helping to reinforce its position in two of its core markets,
       namely stuttgart and düsseldorf.

       leasing activity was very successful in 2013. alstria signed new leasing activities
       leases* totalling approximately 35,600 sqm and prolonged lease
       agreements of around 49,000 sqm. this resulted in a decrease of
       the vacancy rate by 230 basis points (bsp) to 9.1% or 81,300 sqm.
       in addition, over 60 % (of lettable area) of the lease agreements,
       which were due to expire in 2013, could be retained during the year.
       with the successful lease-up of 7,700 sqm of ofﬁce and additional
       space at hans-böckler-straße 36, alstria signed one of the largest
       new leasing contracts in düsseldorf in the reporting year.
       in terms of letting achievements, another climax was the signing of
       an agreement with a new tenant for the property ernsthaldenstraße
       17, stuttgart, for which a ﬁve-year contract comprising around
       2,500 sqm of ofﬁce and ancillary space has been signed.


       * new leases correspond to lease of vacant space. it does not account for any lease
         renewal, prolongation or tenant exercise of renewal option.

                    moreover, alstria also successfully leased areas of those assets which
                    are undergoing refurbishment measures. one example is the signing
                    of a long-term lease for 4,000 sqm of ofﬁce and ancillary space at
                    schaartor 1, hamburg, with a leading advertising agency in germany.

                    for further information about our economic performance in
                    2013, please refer to our annual report 2013 part i and part ii
                    » http://www.alstria.com/investors/reports-events/ﬁnancial-reports/
                    date/2013/.

  68 employees the investment of over eur 33 m in the refurbishment, development
 and four times and regular maintenance of alstria’s buildings in 2013 corresponds
more supported to the support of around 267 jobs (2012: 263 jobs supported; 2011:
                291 jobs supported), on top of the 68 employees* of alstria. with
                51.7% of our suppliers and contractors being locally based (2012:
                52.6 %; 2011: 49.6 %), we invested a great deal in the local economy.
                we tend to hire suppliers and contractors based on the surroundings
                of our assets to support the local economy.



 hired suppliers    number of suppliers hired                                                  689
                                                                               646       644
                    in the reporting period                              582
                        non-local (nationwide)
                                                         391 385
                        local (next to our assets)




                                                           2011            2012            2013

jobs supported         alstria’s employees at                  291
                                                                               263             267
      by alstria       the end of the period
                       jobs supported in the
                       construction sector
                       by alstria
                                                          50              61              68


                                                            2011           2012            2013
                    * the difference between this number and the numbers reported in the annual report
                      2013 part ii/ii result from german accounting principles (hgb) where employees on
                      parental leave are not included in the total employee number.

alstria sustainability report 2014

42      economy




       where does it go?
       2013, in eur m

       remuneration                                                other
       of capital                    78.6 55.1               stakeholders
                 banks
                                                       employees
                 39.1
                                                                 7.8

                 shareholders                  13.5 government
                 39.5
                                              4.1 of which as agent

                                                      community
                                                           33.8
                                            13.0 of which as agent



       c a sh                   flow               be t ween
       s t a k e h o l d e r s
       alstria’s operations have a ﬁnancial impact on several stakeholders
       such as tenants, employees, shareholders and banks.

       the company redistributes most of its ﬁnancial resources to its
       shareholders, to its lenders, to the government, to its service provid-
       ers and the wider community, and to its employees. as a reit (real
       estate investment trust), alstria barely keeps any of the proceeds
       generated for itself. by doing so, alstria remunerates the capital it
       employs (both debt and equity), participates in government ﬁnance
       through taxes and stimulates the underlying economy by spending
       on its assets and paying wages and salaries.

r ece n t d e v e lo pm e n t i n 2014
alstria had a good start at the beginning of 2014. having reﬁnanced
two-thirds of our long-term debt on favorable terms in 2013, we
continued our efforts in the ﬁrst quarter of 2014 with the reﬁnancing
of two further loans to the amount of eur 121 m, replacing our
maturing debt in 2014 and 2015. the new credit agreements have an
average term of 8.5 years and secure the attractive current ﬁnanc-
ing conditions on a long-term basis. with our recent reﬁnancings
in place, the average debt maturity increases to approximately six
years. we now have no substantial ﬁnancing needs until mid-2018.

moreover, a special success in the ﬁrst quarter of 2014 was the
agreement of a long-term lease in our bamler service park in essen,
where we were able to re-let 8,900 sqm of ofﬁce space, directly
replacing an upcoming lease expiry in 2015.



epr a perfor m ance me a sures
the epra performance measures are the key indicators for inves-
tors in the real estate sector and bring overall transparency to the
industry sector.
             best practices recommendations
             on sustainability reporting
                                                               % change
key ﬁgures                       2013         2012    2011    2012 – 2013
1. epra earnings
   per share in eur                0.57        0.55   0.50            3.6
2. epra nav
   per share in eur              10.63        10.98   11.32         – 3.2
3. epra nnnav
   per share in eur              10.68        10.50   10.71           1.7
4. (a) epra niy in %                5.6         5.7     5.8         – 1.8
   (b) epra ‘topped-up’
       niy in %                     5.8         5.7     5.8           1.8
5. epra vacancy rate in %           6.8         8.0     6.5          – 15
6. epra cost ratio in %            21.4        21.4    24.0           0.9

as users of the real estate sector are among the main consumers
of energy and among the major producers of total greenhouse
gas (ghg) emissions, we are fully aware of the role we and our
assets play in creating and maintaining a sustainable environment.
with our focus on sustainable asset and portfolio management,
and on sustainable refurbishment measures, we are trying to live
up to this role.


alstria sustainability report 2014

46      environment




       managing
       our portfolio
       sustainably
       managing the portfolio in a sustainable manner implies properly
       measuring our impact and acting in order to limit it. during the year,
       we have concentrated on further integrating sustainability in our
       real estate operations teams and especially into our development
       projects. the awareness and importance of sustainability at alstria
       is thus increased. the focus is on combining modern techniques and
       energy efﬁciency with the requirements of our tenants.

       in order to better understand the company’s impact on its environ-
       ment, we started to build-up a meaningful environmental reporting
       system in 2010. the collection of data is a large-scale, complex
       process, as we depend on the reliance of our tenants’ consumption
       data. in close collaboration with our tenants, we have been able to
       reach a stable level of coverage of our reporting base.

       a stringent reporting base allows us to use the data for our envi-
       ronmental balance sheet, as well as to derive measures from data
       evaluation. by identifying the priority targets, data evaluation helps
       us to steer the company’s investments into ﬁelds that are linked to
       sustainability.



      analysed assets
      of the total lettable area in %
                                     90 90         92 91

                              69             70
              57 54                                           57        59
         47                                                        52




        ’11 ’12 ’13          ’11 ’12 ’13     ’11 ’12 ’13      ’11 ’12 ’13
          electricity           heating           water          waste

               reporting me thodology
               following this reporting period, alstria has created a meaningful
               and comparable database covering ﬁve years of consumption for a
               large part of its portfolio.
               the boundaries for alstria’s environmental reporting are described
               in detail at the beginning of the report » page 8 to 9.

               we have measured the consumption and emission data of our
               portfolio, including heat, electricity and water. in 2013, the car-
               bon footprint of our portfolio totalled 90.4 kg co2e/sqm* (2012:
               89.6 kg co2e/sqm**). however, we are aware that the data col-
               lection is not yet fully complete as data on tenants’ consumption is
               not always available to alstria.

               changes in consumption might result from a change of the tenants’
               usage, improvements in the granularity of the data collection, a
               change in the vacancy rate, or external weather factors such as a
               cold and long winter, or a very hot summer. no adjustments have
               been made to express vacancy, the age of a building or weather
               conditions.



               environmental footprint of a building
               average absorption of energy, water and waste per sqm in 2013



                                                                         ghg

                                                                 co2     90.4 kg/sqm

energy intensity                                                         waste

94 kwh/sqm + 111 kwh/sqm                                                 2.1 kg/sqm

water                                                                    waste water
0.39 cbm/sqm                                                             0.39 (e)1) cbm/sqm
               1)
                    (e) = estimated on the basis of water consumption.




                     * 2013: 67 assets of our portfolio.
                    ** 2012: 73 assets of our portfolio.

alstria sustainability report 2014

48      environment




       portfolio emissions and resource
       consumption from tenant areas
       the following description of consumption data reﬂects the perfor-
       mance of the tenant areas of our portfolio in 2013.

       we were able to measure the energy data from long-distance heating
       heating, oil and gas of around 90% of the total lettable area of
       894,400 sqm in 2013 (2012: 90%; 2011: 69%). regarding the abso-
       lute performance measures (total energy consumption from heating
       and cooling) in 2013, our tenants consumed almost 860 mwh more
       than in 2012 (an increase of approximately 5.6 kwh/sqm in 2013),
       although the lettable area of the accounted assets was slightly lower
       than 2012 (approximately – 3.4%). we assume that the increase is
       caused by the very long heating period at the beginning of 2013.
       nevertheless, the like-for-like approach shows the opposite, as the
       total energy consumption for district heating and cooling decreased
       by almost 900 mwh.

                      best practices recommendations
                      on sustainability reporting
                                                                                        % change
       absolute performance measures                       2013        2012       2011 2012–2013
       total energy from district heating and cooling
       in kwh                                         75,416,657 74,555,370 52,090,493
       coverage by number of properties                  67 of 67   73 of 84   53 of 80

       like-for-like performance measures
       total energy from district heating and cooling
       in kwh                                         50,344,158    51,249,114 51,458,902    –1.8
       coverage by number of properties                  46 of 76     46 of 76    46 of 76

       intensity indicators
       total energy from district heating and cooling
       kwh/sqm/year                                           94            89         87    5.6
       kwh/workstation/year                               2,346         2,218       2,182
       coverage by number of properties                 67 of 76      73 of 84   53 of 80

         electricity around 54% of the total lettable area was considered for electricity
                     consumption in 2013 (2012: 57%; 2011: 47%). the decrease of
                     the total energy consumption from electricity (–13%) can only be
                     partially explained by the less lettable area that was considered for
                     electricity consumption in 2013 (– 3%). the like-for-like approach
                     shows the same energy consumption tendency, as the total ﬁgure
                     for electricity dropped more than one million kwh.




             best practices recommendations
             on sustainability reporting
                                                                                % change
absolute performance measures                     2013         2012       2011 2012–2013
total energy consumption from electricity
in kwh                                        53,620,870 60,020,585 47,263,909
coverage by number of properties                 31 of 76   35 of 84   30 of 80

like-for-like performance measures
total energy consumption from electricity
in kwh                                        46,743,229 47,850,182 46,931,160       – 2.3
coverage by number of properties                 26 of 76   26 of 80  26 of 80

intensity indicators
total energy consumption from electricity
and cooling
kwh/sqm/year                                        111         114         118      – 2.6
kwh/workstation/year                              2,767      2,846       2,944
coverage by number of properties                31 of 76   35 of 84    30 of 80

alstria sustainability report 2014

50      environment




       in 2013, the total energy intensity in alstria’s portfolio (tenant areas) energy intensity
       increased 2 kwh per sqm and about 50 kwh per workstation. the
       greenprint performance reporttm shows for ofﬁce buildings in the
       emea (europe, the middle east and africa) region an energy inten-
       sity of 237 kwh/sqm (median) and for germany an energy intensity
       of 218 kwh/sqm (median). this is 15.6% and 6.3%, respectively,
       higher than the energy intensity of alstria’s portfolio:*

                       best practices recommendations
                       on sustainability reporting
                                                                                                    % change
       intensity indicators                                  2013           2012           2011    2012–2013
       total annual energy consumption
       kwh/sqm/year                                           205           203              205         1.0
       kwh/workstation/year                                  5,113        5,064            5,126
       coverage by number of properties                   67 of 76      73 of 84        55 of 80




       in 2013, the emission of indirect ghg per sqm was nearly stable ghg emissions
       (+ 0.8 kg co2e/sqm between 2012 and 2013). as a result of the
       decreased like-for-like performance measure of electricity, heating co2
       and cooling, the ghg emissions dropped by nearly 900 t co2e on
       the same property basis in the reporting years.

                       best practices recommendations
                       on sustainability reporting
                                                                                                    % change
       absolute performance measures                        2013           2012             2011   2012–2013
       total indirect ghg emissions metric tco2 e          56,929         5,372          43,833
       coverage by number of properties                   67 of 76      73 of 84        55 of 80

       like-for-like performance measures
       total indirect ghg emissions metric tco2 e          42,833        43,721          42,900         –2.0
       coverage by number of properties                   46 of 76      46 of 46        46 of 76

       intensity indicators
       total indirect ghg emissions
       kg co2 e/sqm/year                                      90.4          89.6            90.4         1.0
       kg co2 e/workstation/year                            2,256         2,234           2,262
       coverage by number of properties                   67 of 76      73 of 84        55 of 80




       * greenprint performance reporttm, volume 5, 2013 by uli greenprint center for
         building performance.

             water in 2013, we were able to collect the data of around 91% of the
                   total lettable area (2012: 92%; 2011: 70%). the like-for-like ap-
                   proach shows that water withdrawal increased by approximately
                   44.500 cbm or 70 l/sqm in 2013 on the same property basis in the
                   reporting years.
                   the greenprint performance reporttm shows for ofﬁce buildings a
                   water intensity of 0.5 cqm/sqm, which is 48% higher than the water
                   intensity of alstria’s portfolio.*

                       some of our tenants stated that the increase in water consumption
                       resulted from work on renovation, maintenance and breakdown
                       repairs.

             best practices recommendations
             on sustainability reporting
                                                                                         % change
absolute performance measures                    2013           2012          2011      2012–2013
total water withdrawal in cmb                  313,318       270,630       181,205
coverage by number of properties               69 of 76      74 of 84      57 of 80

like-for-like performance measures
total water withdrawal in m³                  238,395        193,929       177,805            22.9
coverage by number of properties               51 of 76      54 of 80      51 of 76

intensity indicators
total water withdrawal
m³/sqm/year                                       0.39           0.32          0.30           21.9
m³/workstation/year                                9.7            7.9           7.4
coverage by number of properties               69 of 76      74 of 84      57 of 80




                       * greenprint performance report™, volume 5, 2013 by uli greenprint center for
                         building performance.

alstria sustainability report 2014

52      environment




       wa s t e m a n a g e m e n t w i t h i n
       a l s t r i a s                        p o rt f o l i o
       in 2013, around 59% of the total lettable area was evaluated for
       our tenants’ waste volume (2012: 52%; 2011: 56%). although we
       evaluated the waste volume for 8% more lettable area, the total
       measure shows that our tenants generated in total 95 t less waste
       (0.37 kg less waste per sqm or 9.4 kg per workstation) in 2013.
       as a contrast, the like-for-like approach indicates the amount of waste
       increased by 43 t on the same property basis in the reporting years.

                       best practices recommendations
                       on sustainability reporting
                                                                        % change
       absolute performance measures               2013           2012 2012–2013
       waste for recycling in t                      545            447
       organic waste in t                              30            32
       paper, cardboard in t                         158            106
       residual waste in t                           348            592
       total in t                                  1,081          1,176
       coverage by number of properties          52 of 76      46 of 84

       like-for-like performance measures
       waste for recycling in t              478                   433
       organic waste in t                     30                     30
       paper, cardboard in t                 112                     98
       residual waste in t                   294                   310
       total in t                            914                   871       4.9
       coverage by number of properties  40 of 76              40 of 76

       intensity indicators
       waste for recycling in kg/sqm/year               1.04      0.92
       organic waste in kg/sqm/year                     0.06      0.07
       paper, cardboard in kg/sqm/year                  0.30      0.22
       residual waste in kg/sqm/year                    0.66      1.22
       total in kg/workstation/year                     2.06      2.43     –15.2
       waste for recycling
       in t/workstation/year                        0.026        0.023
       organic waste
       in t/workstation/year                        0.001        0.002
       paper, cardboard
       in t/workstation/year                        0.008        0.005
       residual waste
       in t/workstation/year                       0.017         0.031
       total in t/workstation/year                 0.051         0.061     –15.2
       coverage by number of properties          52 of 76      46 of 84

   refurbishment in the course of the refurbishment of buildings, construction waste
  produces waste is generated which affects the environment, depending on the type
but saves material of waste and its treatment. we report about the waste of our de-
                   velopment projects on a regular basis. however, a comparison of
                   data is not possible because of the different designs of buildings
                   and thus different types of waste. in addition, our development
                   projects are at different stages, so that even a comparison between
                   two reporting periods of one project is not possible. the disposal of
                   construction waste is performed only by local waste management
                   companies as well as licenced companies for hazardous waste. to
                   our knowledge, the waste is properly disposed of in germany and
                   not abroad. in 2013, construction waste was generated during the
                   refurbishment of three hamburg assets: schaartor 1, mundsburg
                   center and holstenhof. there have not been any deconstruction
                   activities in 2012.

                                             despite the production of waste during re-
construction waste          unit     2013    furbishment/deconstruction activities, we
construction waste, mixed   cbm       360    would like to highlight that our approach
demolition waste,                            to retroﬁtting assets generates much low-
concrete, bricks             cbm     2878    er waste, and utilises much fewer resources
demolition waste                             and less energy than the full demolition and
contaminated                 cbm        23
                                             rebuilding of an asset. although the main
gypsum-based building
materials                    cbm      486
                                             factor for us in deciding between reconstruc-
insulating material          cbm        94   tions and retroﬁtting is economic, if the two
total                       cbm      3480    options yield similar economic results, we
construction waste, mixed       t      110   would always choose to retroﬁt and to use
demolition waste,                            the existing structure (‘grey energy’) as much
concrete, bricks                t        5   as possible on environmental grounds.
gypsum-based building
materials                       t     166
insulating material             t       2
wood                            t     101
mixed metals                    t      36
bituminous mixtures             t      39
contaminated wood, glas,
syntetics                       t      13
total                           t     189

alstria sustainability report 2014

54      environment




       a l s t r i a’ s c a r b o n f o ot pr i n t

       global overview of ghg
       emissions by source tco2e               2013        2012       2011
       scope 1
       company vehicles                            8         29         39
       total scope 1                               8         29         39
       scope 2
       alstria’s consumption                       66        72         60
       ofﬁces – controlled common parts        2,962      2,249        842
       scope savings ('green electricity')      – 688
       number of buildings covered           40 of 46   33 of 46   21 of 43
       total scope 2                           2,274     2,321         902
       scope 3
       business travel                             61         63       134
       employee commuting                          68         72         67
       tenant consumption                     49,696     59,473     43,833
       numbers of buildings covered          67 of 76   73 of 84   55 of 80
       total scope 3                         49,825     59,608     44,034
       scope 1 and 2
       in relation to scope 3 in %                 5          4          2


       alstria’s carbon footprint totalled 2,477 tco2e in 2013 (2012:
       2,485 tco2e; 2011: 1,142 tco2). our own consumption is described
       in detail in the section ‘emissions and resource consumption from
       alstria’s operations’. electricity and heating consumption were not
       the only sources of emissions from our operations. we also cause
       co2 emissions during our business travel and employee commuting.
       in 2013, we took 516 business trips by plane (2012: 391; 2011: 606),
       which represent a cumulative distance of approximately 362,347 km
       (2012: 511,075 km; 2011: 718,300 km).

to state the results of 2013, the decrease of the ghg emissions by
21 tco2e of our company vehicles can be explained using a differ-
ent calculation method. in 2012 we summed up the total usage
(including private rides) of our company cars and analysed the total
generated ghg emissions, whereas in 2013 we only analysed the
emissions generated by business usage of our company vehicles.

we try as much as we can to reduce our carbon footprint. this can
be illustrated by the commuting allowance we have offered our
employees since 2009, by which we subsidise a local public transport
ticket to encourage the use of this environmentally-friendly means
of commuter transportation, rather than cars. about half of alstria’s
employees made use of the company’s subsidy in 2012 and 2013.
in 2013 an employee of alstria initiated the acquisition of an electric
company car. this eco-friendly car generates no emissions on the
road.

another milestone for the reduction of ghg emissions was the
change to green electricity for the controlled common areas. with
100% emission-free electricity, alstria saved 688 tco2e in 2013,
which corresponds to a reduction of 42% compared to 2012. for
2014 the saving will be even higher as more assets will switch to
green electricity.



leading                        by           ex a mple
alstria occupies ofﬁce space for its own operations. as a company
working in one of our assets, we want to lead by example and have
therefore implemented a number of measures that we recommend
to our tenants. today, we have rainwater harvesting (‘grey water
usage’), which recycles the rainwater into the undrinkable water
distribution system, thus reducing the amount of water needed to
operate the building.

alstria sustainability report 2014

56      environment




       the following description of consumption data reﬂects the perfor- alstria‘s
       mance of alstria’s operations within the ofﬁces (in hamburg and consumption
       dusseldorf) that alstria used for itself in 2013 compared to 2012.

       total energy from district heating and cooling in kwh                  heating
                                          91,254
                                             98,173

       alstria’s own energy consumption from long-distance heating was
       64 kwh/sqm in 2013 (2012: 76 kwh/sqm). our total energy from
       district heating and cooling decreased therefore by approximately
       7,000 kwh.


       total energy consumption from electricity in kwh                       electricity
                           57,468
                                 54,292

       the electricity consumption for alstria’s offices increased to
       40 kwh/sqm (2012: 32 kwh/sqm; 2011: 32 kwh/sqm). the installed
       solar panels on the roof of the building in hamburg generated around
       1,739 kwh (2012: 2,286 kwh), which were fed into the power grid
       and covered around 3% of alstria’s energy consumption.



       total annual energy consumption in kwh                                 energy intensity
                                                                148,722
                                                                  152,465

       the total energy intensity for alstria’s ofﬁces, which is the sum
       of energy consumption from heating and electricity, was at
       104 kwh/sqm in 2013 (2012: 108 kwh/sqm; 2011: 100 kwh/sqm).



       total water withdrawal by source in cbm                                water
                                                                  316
                                                                 308

       the water consumption of alstria’s ofﬁces in hamburg and dus-
       seldorf was 0.23 cbm/sqm in 2013 (2012: 0.20 cbm/sqm; 2011:
       0.26 cbm/sqm). in our hamburg ofﬁce we consumed 0.22 cbm/
       sqm of water. by harvesting and reusing rainwater we saved approx.
       0.17 cbm/sqm (2012: 0,13 cqm/sqm) or in total 201 cbm of ground
       water. in our dusseldorf ofﬁce the consumption was 0.25 cbm/sqm.

        waste total waste in t
                                                                             6
                                                         4

                 in 2013, alstria created in total 2 t more waste than in 2012.



ghg emissions total indirect ghg emissions in metric tco2e
                                                                        66
         co2
                                                                             72



                 the figures of 2013 illustrate the impact of the new office in
                 dusseldorf on the consumption data of alstria. the new ofﬁce had a
                 direct impact on the increases, because 2013 is the ﬁrst year where
                 all ﬁgures were completely reported and analysed (the new ofﬁce
                 opened in mid-2012).

                 however, the data also shows that even though alstria opened a
                 new ofﬁce, not every type of consumption increased. alstria’s em-
                 ployees already try to behave more sustainably. this can be seen,
                 for example, by the heating energy that decreased 12 kwh per sqm
                 and the resulting energy intensity per sqm which dropped 4 kwh in
                 2013. our aim for 2015 is to also reduce the remaining consumption
                 of electricity, water and waste.


                 alstria‘s ofﬁces vs. alstria‘s portfolio in 2013
                   alstria   portfolio
                                                                          difference
                 energy intensity in kwh/sqm/year                                 %
                                             104
                                                                                  –46.7
                                                                     195

                 indirect ghg emissions in kg co2e/sqm/year
                                             45.9
                                                                                  –46.6
                                                                     86.0

                 water withdrawal by source in cbm/sqm/year
                                             0.22
                                                                                  – 43.6
                                                                     0.39

alstria sustainability report 2014

58      environment




       e n v i ro n m e n ta l e n g ag e m e n t
       as a long-term holder of real estate, the main objective of refurbish- life-cycle
       ment measures is to create efﬁcient ofﬁce space, but also to reduce costing: the basis
       energy consumption and occupancy costs for the tenant.                  of alstria’s refur-
                                                                               bishment policy
       in the course of refurbishment and regular maintenance of buildings,
       we take into consideration not only the initial costs of the refurbish-
       ment but also the overall costs of running the assets in our building
       design. life-cycle costing is the abc of our refurbishment policy.
       our business model involves an annual review of each of the assets
       in order to determine the needs for preventive capital expenditure
       and renovations. to sustain a high quality level, in 2013 alstria in-
       vested around eur 14.5 m in ongoing refurbishment projects.

       in 2013, expenditures that can be directly related to the improve-
       ment of environmental performance of existing assets amounted
       to eur 1.9 m. these are mainly invested in projects such as the
       improvement or renewal of windows, facades and heating systems
       (2012: eur 1.3 m; 2011: eur 2.02 m). the eur 1.9 m of invest-
       ment represents around 1.8% of alstria’s total revenues during the
       reporting year (2012: 1.3%; 2011: 2.00%).



       life-cycle of a building

                               demolition   pre development
                                                  development



               occupancy/                              occupancy/
                  tenancy                              tenancy

            refurbishment

                                                    modernisation

                                     occupancy/
                                     tenancy

  green lease in 2012, the ‘green lease’ working group published its regulatory
 working group recommendations. the catalogue consists of 50 recommendations
               for ‘green leases’ to manage a building sustainably. these include
               conditions with rights, obligations and requested actions for tenants
               and landlords of commercial properties. the speciﬁc lease terms
               include various topics such as measures for energy saving, stand-
               ards for the annual electricity and water consumption per working
               space and separate waste collection. in 2013, the ‘green lease’
               working group was awarded the sustainability award 2013 by the
               ‘immobilienmanager’ for its excellent and interdisciplinary work on
               the ‘green lease’ recommendations.

 engagement in alstria regularly reports to the carbon disclosure project every year.
green reporting the carbon disclosure project is an organisation holding the larg-
                est database of corporate climate change information in the world.
                we provided our ghg emission database as well as our corporate
                climate change strategy.
                furthermore, we are involved with s-i-r-e, which stands for sustain-
                able investment in real estate. this international research pro-
                gramme has developed a sustainability scorecard for real estate
                companies. the scorecard is focused on the minimum requirements
                of gri and cress. for further information please refer to » www.
                s-i-r-e.org.

engagement in in 2013, alstria joined the ‘umweltpartnerschaft hamburg’ which is
 local matters a voluntary partnership between the city of hamburg and various
               companies to manage the challenges of climate protection together.
               this initiative brings different partners from the economy, politics
               and administration together to discuss different eco-political topics.
               for further information please refer to » http://www.hamburg.de/
               umweltpartnerschaft/.



                    r ece n t d e v e lo pm e n t i n 2014
                    in 2014 alstria received the cdp climate action award for the
                    reduction of our scope 1 and 2 emissions. this was achieved by
                    changing the electricity supplier for the common areas of approxi-
                    mately 21% of alstria’s portfolio to emission-free electricity in 2013.
                    in 2014, even more properties will be supplied by green electricity.

as a real estate owner we have a responsibility
to our tenants, communities and employees.
alstria aims to be a well-regarded and reliable
landlord, a responsible employer and a good
corporate citizen.


alstria sustainability report 2014

62      social




       social
       responsibility
       we have a responsibilit y to
       our tenants, loc al commu-
       n i t i e s a n d o u r e m ploy e e s
       through its business activities, alstria has a great inﬂuence on its social
       environment. dealing responsibly with our tenants, our employees
       and the local community is of great importance to us. it is a matter
       of course to have a good relationship with our tenants, to understand
       their individual needs and to deliver appropriate solutions.

       with every asset and business decision, we take into consideration
       indoor air quality, the visual comfort of the occupant, the quality of
       the workspace environment etc. with reference to our development
       projects, we are fully aware of our responsibility towards our tenants
       and the local community. we therefore communicate up-front all
       relevant information about our development projects to affected
       tenants and the immediate neighbours. on construction sites we
       measure the incremental noise that is generated by our activities.
       we also make sure that our contractual partners use modern equip-
       ment to keep the noise level to a minimum. we always try to ﬁnd
       solutions, such as shifting site activities, with approval, to saturdays
       to reduce the impact on our tenants. it is also a matter of course
       that we implement the legal requirements of our business practices
       through our general terms and conditions, as well as our building
       contracts for undeclared work, work permits, work on sundays,
       public holidays and minimum pay. for further information please
       refer to our general terms and conditions on our website » www.
       alstria.com/agb/.

the key to long-term success is based on alstria’s employees. the
know-how, engagement and motivation of our employees play
a crucial role in operating the company successfully. therefore,
alstria seeks ways to create an attractive and professional working
environment for them. among others, alstria has implemented indi-
vidual support programmes to ensure their satisfaction and alstria’s
long-term corporate success. for further information please refer to
» pages 72 to 75.

as a long-term-oriented real estate company we have a great
interest in supporting projects which inﬂuence the social and cultural
environment. regarding the refurbishment of the holstenhof in 2013,
we reconstructed and saved the historic façade of the art nouveau
kontorhaus. due to its refurbishment, the holstenhof remains the
most striking building in hamburgs kaiser-wilhelm-straße and adds
value to hamburg’s city centre.

apart from our social and development projects, we also offer
beneﬁcial rental agreements to start-up enterprises. in 2013, we
supported an art gallery with such a rental agreement. we also
provide vacant areas to beneﬁcial events.

alstria sustainability report 2014

64      social




       active and forsighted engagement
       since the company’s foundation, we have participated in account-
       ing, regulation and sustainability discussions. we have broadened
       our engagement with national and international initiatives to take
       part in different working groups in the real estate sector. one im-
       portant reason for this contribution is our vision of increasing trans-
       parency in the real estate sector. this engagement provides us with
       the opportunity to meet all regulatory requirements, to react at an
       early stage to new trends and even to set new trends.

       among others, we are a member of the german sustainable building
       council (dgnb), epra (european public real estate association), zia
       (zentraler immobilienausschuss), dirk (deutscher investor relations
       verband e. v.) and the real estate share initiative. for an explanation
       of these initiatives please see the glossary on » pages 92 to 95.

       together with the real estate management institute (remi) of
       the ebs university, alstria founded the ‘competence centre real
       estate investment trust’. it offers the opportunity for experts and
       students to exchange know-how and experience. by going through
       the ‘competence centre’, questions concerning optimal capital
       structure or cash ﬂow management can be answered and analysed
       interdisciplinary by the ebs-remi.

       we have also designed and initiated, along with ipd, the german
       ofﬁce rent reversion index (dmx), which has been published
       every year since 2007 and shows the reversion potential of the main
       german ofﬁce markets. market participants are able to compare
       their rents, operating costs or expenses, with the current develop-
       ment on the german market. this can help companies and inves-
       tors to make better-educated investment decisions and provide the
       market with a new key indicator. the complete dmx results are
       available from ipd free of charge at » www.ipd.com/germany or
       by sending an e-mail to » germany@ipd.com.

       in 2013, we spent over eur 133 k (2012: eur 141 k) and around
       70,5 working hours to support and participate in these associations.

safeguarding his toric al
buildings                         and             c u lt u r e
in our day-to-day asset management, we embrace the support and
maintenance of historical buildings. it is our responsibility to preserve
places of cultural interest. with our refurbishment projects, we give
new life to these places while keeping the original essence intact.

in 2013, we refurbished the most striking building in hamburgs
kaiser-wilhelm-straße: the holstenhof. the art nouveau kontorhaus
was designed by albert lindhorst in 1900/01. its design exagger-
ates the epochal trend with its dissolution of the lower façade into
glass surfaces.

to protect its historical look and the cultural value, the entire holsten-
hof was extensively revitalised while saving the historic façade. to
make this development project possible, alstria had a close working
relationship with hamburg’s ministry of culture and the ofﬁce for
the protection of historic buildings during the whole refurbishment
period.



s o c i a l                          p r o j e c t s
not only does alstria take environmental values into account, but also
social values and thus supports the initiative ‘viva con agua’. the
objective is to enable people who are living in developing countries
to gain access to drinking water. sixty per cent of ‘viva con agua’s’
proﬁt goes to long-term drinking water projects by purchasing water
bottles from the initiative. in 2013, we supported the project with
over eur 1,800 (2012: over eur 1,600). in addition, alstria only
buys ‘fair trade coffee’ for its ofﬁces in hamburg and dusseldorf to
support better trading and working conditions.

alstria sustainability report 2014

66      social




       o u r                         e m p l o y e e s
       as the employees are our most important asset within alstria, we be- managing our
       lieve in the positive impact of a professional and strategic human re- people
       sources management. as we reported last year, the focus in january
       2012 of the newly established hr department was professionalising
       the hr administration, building an efﬁcient and strengths-based
       recruiting process and strengthening the management structures
       within our company.

       in 2013 we continued on this path. alstria launched a trainee
       programme to support long-term succession planning within the
       company and to increase internal interdisciplinary cooperation.
       commencing may 2013, we frequently hire young professionals
       to complete a two-year trainee programme especially designed to
       educate about our real estate business and the corporate culture.
       throughout this process we also further optimised recruiting meth-
       ods. we established so-called ‘assessment days’ especially for young
       professionals, with the aim of getting to know the candidate in the
       best possible way, as well as for the candidate to learn about alstria’s
       culture and people. recruiting people goes hand in hand with high
       responsibility – we take recruitment seriously.

diversity it is a principle of alstria to create the same working environments
          for all employees, including the selection, hiring and training of
          employees as well as working conditions and the termination of an
          employment relationship.

            the management board pays attention to diversity in ﬁlling its
            management positions and aims to consciously consider women
            for these positions. as at december 31, 2013, 44% of the manage-
            ment positions at alstria were held by female employees (2012: 44%;
            2011: 50%). as in 2012, 75% of these female positions were ﬁlled
            by part-time employees (2012: 75%), which demonstrates alstria’s
            support of diversity and ﬂexible working conditions.



            number of new and leaving employees by gender



    2013
                              –2                          6

                              –2                3

     2012
            –7                                                              12

                                   –1                         7

     2011
                         –3                                       8

                        –3                                    7

alstria sustainability report 2014

68      social




       e m p l o y e e                                     n u m b e r s
       as of december 31, 2013, the total number of employees was at 68*
       (2012: 61 employees; 2011: 50 employees). alstria employed 24 men
       and 44 women (2012: 23 men/38 women), showing a female to
       male ratio of 183% (2012: 165%).

       at alstria, a female employee earned in 2013 on average 28 % less
       than a male employee (2012: 18% less; 2011: 14% less). compar-
       ing salaries of equivalent positions, the salaries don’t differ more
       than +/– 6%.



       female to male ratio 2013




                                                              183 %




                 44                                                             24
             2012: 38                                                       2012: 23
             2011: 33                                                       2011: 17




       w o r k                         d e p a r t m e n t s
       more than half of alstria’s employees are dedicated to the man-
       agement, acquisition and development of real estate (decem-
       ber 31, 2013: 38 employees; december 31, 2012: 36 employees).
       the remainder of alstria’s workforce is spread between supportive
       departments such as ﬁnance reporting and controlling, legal and
       compliance, and administration (december 31, 2013: 30 employees;
       december 31, 2012: 25 employees).



       * the difference between this number and the number presented in the annual report 2013
         results from german gaap (hgb) principles which do not allow to include employees who are
         on parental leave in the total number of employees.

work departments 2013

admin & finance                                               operations
     female: 23                                               female: 21
       male: 9                                                male: 17

management board                                              transactions &
     administration                                           market intelligence
 finance, legal, hr                                           development
                                                              real estate operations




he alth                              m anagement
we also strive to reduce the risk of absenteeism. the number of
absent days per employee was 7.9 in 2013 and 9.7 in 2012, which
equates to an absentee rate of 3.3% in 2013 (female: 4.0%, male:
2.2%) and in 2012 3.8% (female: 4.7%, male: 2.3%), i. e. 3.3 %*
of alstria’s total workforce during the year 2013 could not operate
due to illness. lost days are scheduled work days and counted from
the ﬁrst day of absenteeism.

on average, german employees were absent 19 days** due to
illness in 2013. in comparison, alstria was able to undercut this rate
by around eleven days. among the actions taken by alstria to limit
the risk of sick days, the company offers its employees a free vac-
cine against inﬂuenza. in 2013 and 2012, around 25% of alstria’s
employees made use of this opportunity each year.

as an employer it is in our responsibility to offer adequate job posi-
tions for chronically ill employees and to integrate them in our daily
work. in such cases we have long prelimenary conversations with
the affected employee and offer individual solutions.



* calculation: absent days/(total working days during the year × average number of employees
    during the year).
* * according to ‘aok bundesverband’, www.aok-bv.de.

alstria sustainability report 2014

70      social




       average absent
       in days per employee

               11.4
                                     9.7
                                                        7.9




              2011                   2012              2013

       employees by age group
       number of employees 2011                  2012        2013

                                            36
                                      31

                              23
                      20
         18
                16
                                                        12
                                                              10
                                                  7
                                                                    2     2       2
              21 – 30              31 – 40            41 – 50           51 – 67

       new and leaving employees by age group
       number of employees 2011  2012   2013
                10

          7
                                      6
                        5      5
                                             4
                                                  2      2          2
                                                                          1
                                                                0            0
              21 – 30              31 – 40            41 – 50        51 – 67
          0                                                     0   0 0
                      –1              –1          –1                        –1
                                            –2          –2
                              –4
                –5

                     safety and health management
                     alstria has a health and safety policy and, in addition to the legal
                     requirements, implemented some best-in-class practices. alstria
                     has a safety commissioner who checks the ofﬁces in hamburg and
                     dusseldorf regularly so that alstria consistently maintains a high
                     safety level. in addition, alstria encourages all employees to attend
                     ﬁrst-aid courses and training to widen their knowledge.



workplace design a good and healthy workplace design is essential in delivering good
                 working results. among others, alstria has implemented the following
                 practices in its own ofﬁce:

                                            › natural daylight for all workstations and
                                               meeting rooms
                                            › individual heating regulation and internal
                                               sunshades to provide thermal comfort
                                            › closed rooms which offer privacy of
                                               speech and which control the noise in the
                                               open space area




                                            › recreation room and other facilities like a
                                               roof terrace, shower facilities and secure
                                               cycle storage




                                            › a document management system to
                                              facilitate the storage of original documen-
                                              tation
                                            › availability of headsets to facilitate intense
                                              usage of the phone
                                            › docking station, regular keyboards and
                                              wide screens for easier operation of laptops

alstria sustainability report 2014

72      social




       in the last two years, alstria has gradually changed the lighting of work
       the individual working places to led. every time an old light bulb environment
       breaks, it is replaced by new led bulbs.
       in addition, alstria uses wax printers for all printing processes in
       its ofﬁces, which are much healthier for the employees and the
       environment. these printers don’t work with noxious toner but with
       non-toxic ‘coloursticks’ which don’t produce any dust exposure.

       alstria supports its employees with a ﬂexible work-time model. work time model
       the model is called ‘vertrauensarbeitszeit’ which means that each
       employee is free to arrange his or her personal time model in coop-
       eration with the manager, according to business needs. furthermore,
       the company has a policy to support young parents who want to
       re-enter the workforce after their parental leave by providing them
       with ﬂexible working times and individual support for child care.
       this can be a part-time, job-sharing position. the new family advice
       service supports, for example, by an emergency back-up childcare
       service up to 10 days per year, the ﬂexibility of the employees and
       increases their work life balance. moreover, alstria offers the option
       of a sabbatical.


       total number of employees in work time models 2013

                      full-time             part-time




                          62                    6
                       2012: 56               2012: 5
                       2011: 46               2011: 4

                                training hours
         24                   per employee in 2013                   28
                                     1,619
       2012: 35                total amount of                    2012: 31
       2011: 23                 training hours                    2011: 37
                                  2012: 1,846
                                  2011: 1,184

                                  eur 128 k
                               training purpose
                                2012: eur 116 k
                                 2011: eur 59 k



       training alstria encourages its employees in undertaking further training.
                it is in alstria’s interest that all employees are up to date with their
                knowledge and that they extend their qualiﬁcations where needed.
                they are also supported by ﬂexible working time for academic
                studies as well as granted training costs. beside external training,
                alstria also offers internal training in business-relevant areas. in
                addition, all employees have the option of taking part in weekly
                english classes. the participation is voluntary and for free.

                   in 2013 we spent around eur 128 k on training (2012: eur 116 k;
                   2011: eur 59 k). each employee received on average 25 hours of
                   training during the year (2012: 32 hours; 2011: 25 hours).

                   in comparison to the previous year the total amount of training hours
                   decreased from 1,864 in 2012 to 1,619 in 2013 (2011: 1.184 hours).
                   female employees received 24 training hours and male employees
                   received 28 training hours in 2013 (2012: female 35 hours and male
                   31 hours; 2011: female 23 hours and male 37 hours).

other beneﬁts alstria supports its employees with various other beneﬁts. we make
              an individual transportation contribution to each employee and we
              have a progressive vacation model in place. alstria also maintains a
              generous company pension scheme.
              in addition, we organise yearly team events to foster team-spirit and
              we support and encourage our employees to take part in regular
              sports events.

alstria sustainability report 2014

74      social




       r e m u n e r a t i o n

       the remuneration system for the members of the management board management
       is determined by the supervisory board and is reviewed regularly. the board
       supervisory board is of the opinion that an adequate remuneration remuneration
       for the members of the management board is provided, which is
       based on customary market terms and conditions and, in particular,
       also takes into account the lasting success of the company. the
       remuneration system for the members of the management board
       was developed by involving an external, independent remuneration
       expert and was approved by the shareholders in the general meet-
       ing for ﬁnancial year 2009; since then it has been applied without
       change. the remuneration structure complies with the german stock
       corporation act (aktg) and – except for the deviations declared in
       the compliance statement according to sec. 161 aktg – with the
       recommendations of the german corporate governance code.

       the supervisory board determines a target remuneration for each
       board member. the target remuneration consists of a ﬁxed basic sal-
       ary, a short-term and a long-term variable component and ancillary
       beneﬁts (beneﬁts in kind) for each management board member.

       the majority of the target remuneration is made up of variable
       components which are dependent on achieving annual or multi-year
       targets. the system also provides caps for the different variable
       elements of the remuneration.

       for a detailed description of the management board remuneration,
       please refer to the section ‘remuneration report’ in the annual
       report 2013 » part ii/ii, pages 111 to 117.

employee proﬁt the ﬁrst version of the convertible proﬁt participation programme,
  participation established in 2007, was renewed by the supervisory board in 2012.
   programme under the current programme a maximum of 500,000 certiﬁcates
                in an aggregate nominal amount of up to eur 500 k may be issued.
                the certiﬁcates are issued as non-transferable rights and are neither
                sellable nor pledgeable or otherwise chargeable. during its term,
                each certiﬁcate entitles the holder to a preferred payment from the
                company’s annual nett proﬁt. the proﬁt share corresponds to the
                dividend per share of the company for a full business year of the
                company.

                    a total of 604,650 certiﬁcates were issued in the course of the em-
                    ployee proﬁt participation programmes within recent years. so far
                    106,000 certiﬁcates issued on june 4, 2009, and 85,000 certiﬁcates
                    issued on may 18, 2012, were converted into alstria shares. of the
                    97,300 certiﬁcates issued on june 7, 2013, the market conditions
                    were fulﬁlled until the end of the ﬁnancial year 2013. until now,
                    90,100 certiﬁcates have been forfeited – either due to termination
                    of employment or because the performance goals for the conversion
                    were not met.

                    for a detailed description of the employee proﬁt participation pro-
                    gramme, please refer to the section ‘convertible proﬁt participation
                    rights programme’ in the annual report 2013 » part ii/ii, pages 83
                    to 85.

     additional in addition to the mandatory social pension provision, in 2010 alstria
   pension plan introduced a pension plan for all employees (excluding the man-
                agement board). alstria contributes to the plan at the same rate and
                alongside each of the employees up to a maximum of eur 1,320
                per year.



alstria sustainability report 2014

78      appendix




       gri and epra
       content index
       this is alstria’s ﬁfth sustainability report. it informs the reader of our report
       key achievements, challenges and future targets. we have noted that parameters
       environmental data collection and measurement is still a challenge.
       but we continue to make progress and widen our database. our aim
       is to increase the number of analysed assets, ﬁgures and calculations
       to 100 % in 2015 (scope 1 and 2) in order to strengthen the validity
       of our disclosures. the evaluated database becomes more compa-
       rable with every new reporting year, as the collected database itself
       increases our knowledge about the consumption development of our
       assets. we are pleased to share these results with our stakeholders
       and we are committed to making further progress.

       the report covers the operations and employer practices of alstria.
       sustainability ﬁgures for the governance, economic, environmental
       and social section refer to the ﬁnancial year 2013 (january 1, 2013 to
       december 31, 2013), unless otherwise stated. alstria’s sustainability
       report follows the global reporting initiative (gri) g3.1 framework
       covering economic, environmental and social performance. the gri
       contains globally applicable guidelines for sustainability reporting.
       in addition, the epra best practice recommendations and the con-
       struction and real estate sector supplements are applied, as they
       were developed speciﬁcally for the real estate sector. the content
       index states where in the present report the standard disclosures
       and indicators of the gri and epra are dealt with, as well as the
       degree to which each indicator is fulﬁlled.

       for more information on gri, visit » www.globalreporting.org, for
       epra visit » www.epra.com and for cress visit » https://www.
       globalreporting.org/reporting/sector-guidance/sector-guidance/
       construction-and-real-estate/.

       if you have any questions relating to this report or our sustainability
       activities, please contact us via e-mail at » sustainability@alstria.de
       or visit » www.alstria.com/en/sustainability/.

       data for the economic section relate to the alstria group excluding
       joint ventures as presented in the annual report 2013 » part ii/ii.

       this report reﬂects the gri level b (self-declared). it has therefore
       not been reviewed externally.

gri/epra index                      n     p s         gri/epra index                  n    p s
1. strategy and analysis                              4. governance, commitments,
1.1   statement from the most                            and engagement
      senior decision maker of the                    4.1 governance structure       [1] 22–23
      organization                      4–5           4.2 indicate whether the chair
1.2 description of key impacts,                            of the highest governance
      risks, and opportunities         22–27               body is also an executive
2. organizational proﬁle                                   ofﬁcer                    [2]
2.1 name of the organization            2–3           4.3    number of members of the
                                                             highest governance body
2.2 primary brands, products,                                that are independent and/or         4–5,
      and/or services                   2–3                  non-executive members                22
2.3 operational structure of the                      4.4    mechanisms for sharehold-
      organization                      2–3                  ers and employees to pro-
2.4 location of organization’s                               vide recommendations or
      headquarters                      2–3                  direction to the highest
2.5 number of countries                 2–3                  governance body                [3]
2.6 nature of ownership and                           4.5    linkage between com-
      legal form                        2–3                  pensation for members of
                                                             governance bodies and the
2.7 markets served                      2–3
                                                             organization’s performance [4]
2.8 scale of the reporting
                                                      4.6    process for the highest
      organization                      2–3
                                                             governance body to avoid
2.9 signiﬁcant changes during                                conﬂicts of interest           [5]
      the period regarding size,
                                                      4.7    qualiﬁcations and expertise
      structure, or ownership            6–7
                                                             of the members of the high-
2.10 awards received                     29                  est governance body and its
3. report parameters                                         committees                     [5]
3.1 reporting period                      6           4.8    internally developed state-
3.2 date of most recent                                      ments of mission or values,
      previous report               nov. 5, 2013             codes of conduct, and
                                                             principles                         22–23
3.3 reporting cycle                      78
                                                      4.9    procedures of the highest
3.4 contact point                        96                  governance body for
3.5 process for deﬁning report                               overseeing the organiza-
      content                            78                  tion’s identiﬁcation and
3.6 boundary of the report              78,                  management of economic,
                                      83–85                  environmental, and social
                                                             performance                         4–5
3.7 limitations on the scope or          78,
      boundary of the report           83–85          4.10   process for evaluating
                                                             the highest governance
3.8 basis for reporting on
                                                             body’s own sustainability
      joint ventures, subsidiaries,
                                                             performance                    [4]
      leased facilities, outsourced      78,
      operations                       83–85          4.11   precautionary approach         [6]
3.9 data measurement                    78,           4.12   external charters, principles,
      techniques                      83–85                  or other initiatives           [7]
3.10 explanation of the effect                        4.13   memberships in associations        28–29
      of any re-statements                    n. r.   4.14   list of stakeholder
3.11 signiﬁcant changes from                                 groups engaged by the
      previous reporting periods              n. r.          organization                       12–21
3.12 gri index                         78–85          4.15   basis for identiﬁcation and
                                                             selection of stakeholders
3.13 external assurance for the
                                                             with whom to engage                12–21
      report                             78

alstria sustainability report 2014

80      appendix




       gri/epra index                      n     p s          gri/epra index                      n     p s
       4.16 approaches to stakeholder                         en12 impacts of activities on bio-
             engagement                        12–21               diversity in protected areas [16]         n. r.
       4.17 key topics and concerns                           emissions, efﬂuents, and waste
             of stakeholders              [8]                 en16 direct and indirect ghg
       economic performance indicators (ec)                        emissions**                   [14] 50, 54
       management approach                      4–5,          en17 other indirect ghg emissi-
                                               40–43               ons**                         [14] 50, 54
       economic performance                                   cre3 greenhouse gas intensity
       ec1 direct economic value gen-                              from                               50, 54
             erated and distributed       [9] 40–43           cre4 greenhouse gas intensity
       ec2 risks and opportunities due                             from construction activity         50, 54
            to climate change                  25–27          en18 initiatives to reduce green-
       ec3 deﬁned beneﬁt plan                                      house gas emissions                58–59
             obligations                       73–74          en19 emissions of ozone-deplet-
       ec4 financial assistance from                               ing substances by weight
            government                   [10]                 en20 no, so, and other signif-
       market presence                                             icant air emissions by type
                                                                   and weight
       ec6 locally-based suppliers               41
                                                              en21 water discharge by quality
       ec7 senior management hired                                 and destination               [17] 51, 56
            from the local community [11]
                                                              en22 waste by type and disposal
       indirect economic impacts                                   method**                      [18] 52–53
       ec8 infrastructure investments           42,           en23 number and volume of
            for public beneﬁt                  62–63               signiﬁcant spills
       environmental performance indicators                   en24*weight of transported
       (en)                                                        hazardous waste                    52–53
       management approach                    46–59           cre5 land remediated                     n. r.
       materials                                              products and services
       en1 materials used                                     en26 initiatives to mitigate
       en2 percentage of materials                                 environmental impacts of
            used that are recycled                                 products and services              52–59
       energy                                                 en27 percentage of products sold
       en3 direct energy consumpti-                                and their packaging materi-
            on**                         [12] 47–56                als that are reclaimed              n. r.
       en4 indirect energy consump-                           compliance
            tion**                       [13] 47–56           en28 fines and sanctions for non-
       cre1 building energy intensity**        47–56               compliance of environmen-
                                                                   tal laws                      [19] 22–23
       en5 energy saved due to
            conversation and efﬁency                          transport
            improvements                      54–55           en29*signiﬁcant environmental
       en6 energy-efﬁcient initiatives**       47–56               impacts of transporting              54
       en7* reduction of indirect energy                      overall
            consumption                  [14] 54–55           en30*environmental protection
       water                                                       expenditures                       58–59
       en8 water withdrawal**            [15] 51, 56          labor practices and decent work per-
                                                              formance indicators (la)
       en9* water sources                [15] 51, 56
                                                              management approach                      4–5,
       en10*percentage of water recy-
                                                                                                      62–75
            cled and reused              [17] 51, 56
                                                              employment
       cre2 building water intensity**         51, 56
                                                              la1 workforce by type              [20] 69–71
       biodiversity
                                                              la2 employee turnover                   67, 70
       en11 land owned in protected
            areas and areas of high                                beneﬁts provided to
                                                              la3*
            diversity                    [16]         n. r.        employees                          71–75

gri/epra index                      n     p s    gri/epra index                        n     p s
la15 return to work and reten-                   child labor
      tion rates after parental                  hr6 child labor                      [30] 22–23
      leave, by gender             [21]
                                                 forced and compulsory labor
labor/management relations
                                                 hr7 forced and compulsory
la4 employees covered by                              labor                           [19] 22–23
      collective bargaining
      agreements                         n. r.   assessment
la5 minimum notice period re-                    hr10 operations that have been
      garding operational changes        n. r.        subject to human rights
                                                      reviews                         [31] 22–23
occupational health and safety
                                                 remediation
la7 injuries, occupational diseas-
      es, lost days, absenteeism,                hr11 number of grievances relat-
      and number of work-related                      ed to human rights ﬁled         [32] 22–23
      fatalities                   [22] 70       social performance indicators (so)
cre6 health and safety manage-                   management approach                       22–23,
      ment system                  [23] 51–52                                              62–75
la8 education, training, coun-                   community
      seling, prevention, and                    so1 programs that assess and
      risk-control programs        [24] 73            manage impacts of opera-
training and education                                tions on communities                 62–66
la10 training hours                [25] 73       so9 operations with signiﬁcant
la11*programs for skills                              potential or actual negative
      management                         73           and positive impacts on
                                                      local communities                    62–63
la12* percentage of employees re-
      ceiving regular performance                so10 prevention and mitigation
      and career development                          measures implemented in
      reviews                            73           operations                           62–63
diversity and equal opportunity                  cre7 number of persons volun-
                                                      tarily/ involuntarily displaced
la13 composition of governance                        and/or resettled
      bodies and breakdown of
      employees                    [26] 69–72    corruption
equal remuneration for women and men             so2 business units analyzed for
                                                      corruption                      [33]
la14 ratio salary men/women              68
                                                 so3 anti-corruption training              22–23
human rights performance indicators (hr)
                                                 so4 response to incidents of
management approach                     22–23         corruption                      [19] 22–23
investment and procurement practices             public policy
hr1 investment agreements                        so5 public policy position and
      and contracts that include                      lobbying                             22–29
      human rights clauses         [27]
                                                 so6* financial value of contribu-
hr2 screening on human rights                         tions to political parties      [34] 64
      of suppliers and contractors [28] 22–23
                                                 anti-competitive behavior
hr3 total hours of employee
      training on human rights                   so7* anti-competitive behavior,
      aspects                      [29] n. r.         anti-trust                      [19] 22–23
non-discrimination                               compliance
hr4 incidents of discrimination [19] 22–23       so8 fines for non-compliance
                                                      with laws                       [19] 22–23
freedom of association and collective
bargaining                                       product responsibility performance
                                                 indicators (pr)
hr5 right to exercise of
      association and collective                 management approach                        4–5,
      bargaining                   [19] 22–23                                              22–23

alstria sustainability report 2014

82      appendix




      gri/epra index                    n     p s                                                                   gri/epra index                                                        n      p                         s
      customer health and safety                                                                                    compliance
      pr1 health and safety impacts of                                                                              pr9 fines for non-compliance
           products and services                                                                                         with laws concerning the
      pr2* non-compliance with reg-                                                                                      provision and use of prod-
           ulations concerning health                                                                                    ucts and services                                               [19] 22–23
           and safety impacts          [19] 22–23                                                                   **
                                                                                                                            epra best practice recommendations
      product and service labelling                                                                                         on sustainability reporting
      pr3 type of product and service                                                                               n       notes
           information required by           2–3                                                                            page
                                                                                                                    p
           procedures                  [35] 16–17
                                                                                                                    s       status
      cre8 type and number of sustain-
                                                                                                                            not covered
           ability certiﬁcation             16–17
                                                                                                                            partially covered
      pr5* tenant satisfaction               12,
                                            16–17                                                                           completely covered
      marketing communications                                                                                      n. r.   not relevant
      pr6 programs for adherence to                                                                                 *       additional indicators
           laws and voluntary codes                                                                                 [x]     see notes on » pages 54 to 55




       gri                                a ppli c ati o n                                                                   level

                                              report
                                    application level                   c               c+                                    b                b+                                    a               a+
                                                             report on:                                             report on all criteria                                 same as requirement
                                                             1.1                                                    listed for level c plus:                               for level b
                                                    output




                                             g3              2.1 – 2.10                                             1.2
                                          proﬁle             3.1 – 3.8,                                             3.9, 3.13
                                      disclosure             3.10 – 3.12                                            4.5 – 4.13,
                                                             4.1 – 4.4,                                             4.16 – 4.17
                                                             4.14 – 4.15
                                                                                        report externally assured




                                                                                                                                               report externally assured




                                                                                                                                                                                                     report externally assured
       standard disclosures




                                                             not required                                           management                                             management
                                            g3                                                                      approach disclosures                                   approach disclosures
                                                    output




                                   management                                                                       for each indicator                                     for each indicator
                                     approach                                                                       category                                               category
                                     disclosure




                                                             report on a minimum                                    report on a minimum                                    report on each
                                              g3             of 10 performance                                      of 20 performance                                      core g3 and sector
                                    performance              indicators, including at                               indicators, at least one                               supplement1) indicator
                                                    output




                                                             least one from each of:                                from each of economic,                                 with due regard to the
                                     indicators &
                                                             economic, social and                                   environmental, human                                   materiality principle
                              sector supplement              environmental.                                         rights, labor, society,                                by either: a) reporting
                                    performance                                                                     product reponsibility.                                 on the indicator or b)




                                                                                                                         9
                                       indicators                                                                                                                          explaining the reason
                                                                                                                                                                           for its omission.



       1)
                   sector supplement in ﬁnal version.

g r i                 n o t e s
[1] see also chapter ‘corporate governance’ [10] as a reit alstria is tax-exempt effective
in the annual report for the ﬁnancial year as of january 1, 2007.
2013 » part ii/ii, pages 100 to 117 and on
alstria’s website.                             [11] there is no personnel policy at alstria
                                               which prefers local applicants and their
[2] chair of highest governance body is not employment.
an executive.
                                               [12] boundaries for electricity: 31 assets;
[3] at our annual general meeting all share- 54 % of the total lettable area; 56 % of the
holders can engage with our management total value. boundaries for heating: 67 assets;
board and supervisory board and are updat- 90 % of the total lettable area; 90 % of the
ed on our performance and strategy. there total value.
are no limitations on voting rights, i.e. one
share entitles the holder to one vote.         [13] only indirect secondary energy from
                                               tenants’ consumption. boundaries for elec-
[4] see remuneration report in the annual tricity (absolute performance measures
report for the ﬁnancial year 2013 » part ii/ 2013): 31 assets; 54 % of the total lettable
ii, pages 111 to 117.                          area; 56 % of the total value. boundaries for
                                               electricity (like-for-like performance measures
[5] see working methods of the manage- 2013): 26 assets; 43% of the total lettable
ment board and the supervisory board in the area; 47 % of the total value. boundaries
annual report for the ﬁnancial year 2013 for heating (absolute performance measures
» part ii/ii, pages 100 to 103.                2013): 67 assets; 90 % of the total lettable
                                               area; 90 % of the total value. boundaries for
[6] see report on risks and opportunities in heating (like-for-like performance measures
the annual report for the ﬁnancial year 2013 2013): 46 assets; 63 % of the total lettable
» part ii/ii, pages 19 to 27.                  area; 66 % of the total value. for the 2012,
                                               2011 and 2010 boundaries please see the
[7] we promote transparency and compara- sustainability reports 2012, 2011 and 2010.
bility of sustainability reports by implement- segmental anaylsis: only ofﬁce buildings in
ing the gri/cress guidelines and epra best germany.
practice recommendations.
                                               [14] calculated with the help of a software
[8] alstria comments and engages with its tool from the ghg initiative, available on
stakeholders on its blog with respect (among » www.ghgprotocol.org. boundaries for ghg
other things) to sustainability and climate emmissions (absolute performance measures
change issues » alstria.blogspot.com.          2013): 67 assets; (like-for-like performance
                                               measures 2013): 46 assets.
[9] see also the annual report for the ﬁnan- segmental anaylsis: only ofﬁce buildings in
cial year 2013.                                germany.

alstria sustainability report 2014

84      appendix




       [15] boundaries for water (absolute per-      number of employees during the period)
       formance measures 2013): 69 assets; 91%       x 200,000 = 7,538. (female: 5,731; male:
       of the total lettable area; 90 % of the total 1,807).
       value. for the 2012, 2011 and 2010 bound-     lost days of female employees in 2012: 406;
       aries please see the sustainability reports   lost days of male employees in 2012: 128.
       2012, 2011 and 2010. boundaries for water     absentee rate in 2011: (548 lost days/254
       (like-for-like performance measures 2012):    total working days per year x 48 average
       51 assets; 64% of the total lettable area;    number of employees during the period)
       67 % of the total value.                      x 200,000 = 8,990. (female: 5,135; male:
                                                     3,855).
       [16] alstria does not own any assets in pro- lost days of female employees in 2011: 313;
       tected areas.                                 lost days of male employees in 2011: 235.
                                                     there have been no work-related and job-re-
       [17] boundaries: 68 assets; 91% of the total lated fatal accidents among our employees.
       lettable area; 90 % of the total value. see there are no work-related accidents among
       also en8 and en9.                             our contractors employees on construction
                                                     sites known during the last three years.
       [18] boundaries for construction waste: 3 as-
       sets in hamburg; 2.5% of the total lettable [23] our construction sites are subject to au-
       area; 2.5% of the total value. 1 asset in mu- dits by the (german) public authorities with
       nich; 0.8% of the total lettable area; 0.8% respect to labour law violations. as of today,
       of the total value.                           none of these audits have identiﬁed any sub-
                                                     stantial issue. in addition, for all construction
       [19] no incidents known.                      sites we have speciﬁc health and safety plan-
                                                     ning. we assign a safety coordinator whose
       [20] in 2013, there were four employees duty it is to ensure the health and safety of
       who worked in ﬁxed-term contracts.            employees and subcontractor’s employees.
                                                     the coordinator can stop work on a site if
       [21] in 2013, four employees returned to she/he suspects any risk related to health
       work from parental leave, and seven em- and safety.
       ployees went on parental leave. in total, ﬁve
       employees were on parental leave as at de- [24] there are no operational activities with a
       cember 31, 2013.                              high risk at alstria, which would cause serious
                                                     diseases or many cases of illness.
       [22] absentee rate in 2013: (538,5 lost
       days/252 total working days per year x 64 [25] we do not report on each employment
       average number of employees during the category, such as senior management or mid-
       period) x 200,000 = 6,678. (female: 5,078; dle management.
       male: 1,600).
       lost days of female employees in 2013: 410; [26] see also the ‘corporate governance
       lost days of male employees in 2013: 129.     statement’ » pages 104 to 110 in the annual
       absentee rate in 2012: (534 lost days/253 report for the ﬁnancial year 2013 » part ii/
       total working days per year x 56 average ii and la1 and la2 of this report.

[27] alstria has no specific investment            [34] we do not make political donations.
agreements with human rights clauses. as
alstria’s focus is on the german market, hu-       [35] each of our key businesses meet prod-
man rights are protected by law. in germany        uct and service information, disclosure re-
most international human rights treaties are       quirements and contractual requirements as
ratiﬁed. alstria operates in the framework of      required by legislation.
the german law and obeys these rules and
regulations.

[28] our construction sites have been audit-
ed on a regular basis. none of these audits
have identiﬁed any substantial issues. with
respect to health and safety, alstria assigns a
coordinator for each site.

[29] there was no speciﬁc training on hu-
man rights aspects. alstria has a speciﬁc policy
on equal treatment as well as on harassment
which is included in our regular training.

[30] no incidents known. we are aware
of the risk for child labour in the real estate
sector, but we only operate in germany and
screen our contractors regarding such issues.

[31] alstria operates in the framework of
the german law and obeys these rules and
regulations. germany has ratiﬁed most inter-
national human rights treaties. there are no
human rights conﬂicts with other countries.

[32] there were no grievances related to
human rights in 2013.

[33] risks of corruption and validity of ﬁnan-
cial information are reviewed in the frame-
work of the annual review by our auditors. in
addition, the internal control system as well
as the internal audit also prevents possible
risks. the code of conduct is another pre-
ventive instrument.

alstria sustainability report 2014

86      appendix




       property
       consumption data
       properties           electricity in kwh        properties      electricity in kwh
                        2013        2012       2011                    2013       2012     2011
       building 1           0          0          0   building 40          0         0        0
       building 2           0          0          0   building 41          0         0        0
       building 3           0          0          0   building 42          0         0   35,147
       building 4           0          0          0   building 43         0         0         0
       building 5           0          0          0   building 44 1,214,385 1,246,000         0
       building 6     869.734    858,980    887,268   building 45         0         0   113,771
       building 7     661,066    733,153    765,982   building 46 2,010,941 2,209,567 2,147,735
       building 8     935,142 1,081,138 1,171,832     building 47 421,560     474,989   401,445
       building 9     151,767    166,771    169,847   building 48 298,342     259,454   302,247
       building 10   354,649     422,385    487,932   building 49         0         0   183,831
       building 11   482,679     522,768    564,892   building 50         0         0         0
       building 12    120,266     88,082    113,399   building 51 1,596,803 1,601,292 1,616,959
       building 13    166,140    178,898    184,396   building 52         0         0         0
       building 14    128,308    124,608    116,032   building 53         0         0    29,560
       building 15          0          0          0   building 54         0         0         0
       building 16     85,165    110,632    119,675   building 55         0         0         0
       building 17    491,900    693,901    717,544   building 56 453,251     446,172  440,894
       building 18    162,014    172,639    169,929   building 57         0         0         0
       building 19    205,419     79,294    106,416   building 58         0 2,492,000         0
       building 20    620,174    720,954          0   building 59         0         0         0
       building 21          0          0          0   building 60         0         0         0
       building 22    374,182    386,516    380,406   building 61         0         0         0
       building 23     93,840    118,934          0   building 62         0         0         0
       building 24    269,134    327,972    332,346   building 63         0         0         0
       building 25    271,736    288,111    298,973   building 64 779,486 1,349,875           0
       building 26    107,051    122,282    132,247   building 65         0         0         0
       building 27          0    849,879          0   building 66         0         0         0
       building 28          0          0          0   building 67         0         0         0
       building 29          0          0          0   building 68         0         0         0
       building 30          0          0          0   building 69         0         0         0
       building 31          0          0          0   building 70         0         0         0
       building 32 1,123,948 2,561,160 2,561,160      building 71 1,002,436 1,016,264         0
       building 33 33,850,000 32,028,000 31,900,000   building 72         0         0         0
       building 34          0          0          0   building 73         0         0         0
       building 35          0          0          0   building 74         0         0         0
       building 36          0          0          0   building 75         0         0         0
       building 37 1,152,032 1,421,660      338,580   building 76         0         0         0
       building 38 3,167,320 3,600,000            0   building 77         0         0         0
       building 39          0          0          0

properties         heating in kwh              properties       heating in kwh
                 2013        2012       2011                   2013         2012    2011
building 1     690,819    624,722          0   building 40 1,022,081           0       0
building 2           0          0          0   building 41   631,737     646,132  53,293
building 3           0          0          0   building 42    105,311    115,440 104,965
building 4           0          0          0   building 43 822,979      803,118  774,451
building 5     845,204    605,910    891,684   building 44 2,312,080 2,560,000         0
building 6 3,680,690 3,354,950 2,958,500       building 45 221,885      198,631 205,054
building 7 1,897,340 1,859,270 1,689,650       building 46 1,170,669 1,329,160 3,547,940
building 8 1,713,490 1,975,220 1,444,830       building 47 572,240      575,760  462,168
building 9     457,734    465,251    520,336   building 48   632,742    572,654 586,247
building 10    700,480    794,522    774,007   building 49 480,923      532,222 502,495
building 11    626,787    586,832    508,391   building 50 206,008      280,346 285,580
building 12    570,948    637,206    555,558   building 51   853,277 1,148,533 836,980
building 13    378,158    436,176    365,605   building 52     39,178     42,332  15,047
building 14    473,597    386,415    446,018   building 53   214,348      35,796       0
building 15 1,189,465 1,218,510            0   building 54 542,847      496,959  415,643
building 16    205,160    379,995          0   building 55 290,000      274,446 306,388
building 17 2,159,940 2,022,560 1,970,400      building 56 1,041,645     732,112 885,199
building 18    763,677    716,746    833,815   building 57   315,398    341,679  299,104
building 19    624,423    215,270    571,156   building 58          0 3,650,000        0
building 20 1,100,386     991,908    898,891   building 59    317,921   300,775 163,030
building 21          0          0          0   building 60          0          0       0
building 22    561,226    629,656    556,735   building 61   628,037    615,319 252,982
building 23    428,611    347,625    408,743   building 62 284,276      170,002        0
building 24 1,142,476 1,200,667      902,202   building 63 1,373,977    800,237        0
building 25    658,774    571,299    630,247   building 64 1,515,241 1,186,748         0
building 26    313,557   248,806     299,018   building 65   754.110      37,665       0
building 27 1,928,820 1,606,610 1,586,830      building 66 916,790       751,110       0
building 28    144,230    129,902    168,882   building 67 1,059,540    869,000        0
building 29 1,036,305     743,087          0   building 68 691.646      539.846        0
building 30    228,429    239,469    215,734   building 69 2,064,960 2,617,360         0
building 31    504,402   800,290 1,151,310     building 70 1,272,074 1,128,900         0
building 32    903,339 1,328,000 1,328,000     building 71 1,103,256 1,027,810         0
building 33 13,490,000 12,017,000 14,963,000   building 72 676,501      550,983        0
building 34 2,156,770 2,369,934      409,556   building 73 1,969,050 1,092,820         0
building 35 1,195,243 1,148,620 1,006,800      building 74 1,152,194    465,432        0
building 36          0          0          0   building 75 1,289,656      15,264       0
building 37 1,822,630 2,260,730 1,464,500      building 76          0          0       0
building 38 2,278,971 2,300,000            0   building 77          0          0       0
building 39          0          0          0

alstria sustainability report 2014

88      appendix




       properties              water in cbm             properties         water in cbm
                         2013          2012      2011                  2013       2012     2011
       building 1        2,632          943         0   building 40    6,406     5,399     5,161
       building 2        1,282        1,286     1,307   building 41      826       698       918
       building 3        2,170        1,567     1,434   building 42      584       559      723
       building 4        1,711         1062     1,183   building 43    7,049     6,901         0
       building 5        3,791        4,886     4,960   building 44   21,075    20,645         0
       building 6        5,657        2,230     2,333   building 45      406       545      601
       building 7        3,990        2,200     2,081   building 46    4,835     4,479    4,521
       building 8        4,569        4,770     2,232   building 47    1,291     1,136    1,566
       building 9          776          735       715   building 48    1,487       934    2,135
       building 10       1,681        1,757     1,902   building 49      621       894      692
       building 11       1,482        1,433     1,464   building 50      304       304       271
       building 12       1,201        1,050     1,196   building 51    5,062     4,629    4,489
       building 13       1,082        1,047       878   building 52      947       992      770
       building 14         794          801       853   building 53       30        19       149
       building 15       4,635        4,332         0   building 54    1,648     1,615    1,495
       building 16       1,096        1,133     1,125   building 55      984     1,048    1,039
       building 17       4,699        4,123     4,066   building 56    3,078     2,946    3,078
       building 18       1,184         1,116      943   building 57      801       903      821
       building 19         563          679       700   building 58        0     9,724         0
       building 20       3,110        3,367     2,743   building 59    1,153     1,227      770
       building 21           0             0        0   building 60        0         0      972
       building 22       1,018        1,126     1,046   building 61    2,473     3,529    1,014
       building 23         993        1,047       938   building 62      194       108         0
       building 24       1,765          701       688   building 63    3,086     6,271         0
       building 25       1,893        2,095     2,261   building 64    1,250     2,398         0
       building 26       1,293        1,308       607   building 65       74         0         0
       building 27       4,364        4,378     3,968   building 66    5,281     2,505         0
       building 28         536          549       410   building 67    2,898     1,929         0
       building 29       1,310        1,300         0   building 68    3.256         0         0
       building 30         792           851    1,069   building 69        0         0         0
       building 31         592        1,267     2,060   building 70    2,751     1,061         0
       building 32         913        7,637     7,637   building 71    5,556     5,176         0
       building 33     142,880       90,629    80,100   building 72    2,024     1,743         0
       building 34       2,633        4,350     2,581   building 73    2,152       319         0
       building 35       2,421        2,373     2,293   building 74    1,301       703         0
       building 36           0             0        0   building 75    1,303       455         0
       building 37       2,528        3,814     4,649   building 76        0         0         0
       building 38       7,095        6,480         0   building 77        0         0         0
       building 39           0             0        0

properties           waste in t          properties           waste in t
              2013       2012     2011                 2013       2012     2011
building 1      14         31       29   building 40     53         22       22
building 2       0          0        0   building 41      7         16       15
building 3       6          6        6   building 42     11          8        8
building 4       0          0        0   building 43     80         81       54
building 5      15         11       22   building 44      0          0        0
building 6      45         45       21   building 45     12         12       12
building 7      43         43       46   building 46     39         39       39
building 8      22         23       43   building 47     18          0        0
building 9      23         22       22   building 48     24         24       24
building 10     23         25       31   building 49     10          0        0
building 11     19         19       25   building 50      2          0        6
building 12     11         13       12   building 51      6          6        6
building 13     12         11        9   building 52      0          0        0
building 14     13         12       10   building 53      0          0        0
building 15     33         30       23   building 54     20         15       23
building 16      8          8        8   building 55     11          0        0
building 17     33         34       13   building 56      0          0        0
building 18      3          3        0   building 57      9          8       12
building 19      5          5        7   building 58      0          0        0
building 20     25         23       26   building 59      1          0        0
building 21      0          0        0   building 60      0          0        0
building 22     11         11       11   building 61     24          0        0
building 23      5          5        5   building 62      0          0        0
building 24     10         10       11   building 63      0          0        0
building 25     17         17       17   building 64     24          0        0
building 26     11         11        8   building 65      0          0        0
building 27     34         40       28   building 66     25          0        0
building 28      8          6       11   building 67      0          0        0
building 29     25          0       25   building 68     16          0        0
building 30     12         11       11   building 69    119         90       48
building 31      0          5       13   building 70      0          0        0
building 32      0          0        0   building 71      0        253        0
building 33      0          0        0   building 72     14          0        0
building 34      0          0        0   building 73      0          0        0
building 35     33         35       12   building 74      0          0        0
building 36      0          0       18   building 75      9          0        0
building 37     15         15       12   building 76      0          0        0
building 38      0          0        0   building 77     11          0        0
building 39      0          0        0

alstria sustainability report 2014

90      appendix




       analysed assets
       properties                             electricity  heating     water       waste
                                             ’13 ’12 ’11 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’13 ’12 ’11
       baden-württemberg
       carl-reiß-platz 1– 5/ tg, mannheim
       epplestraße 225, stuttgart
       ernsthaldenstraße 17, stuttgart
       friedrich-scholl-platz 1, karlsruhe
       rotebühlstraße 98 –100, stuttgart
       siemensstraße 31– 33, ditzingen
       bavaria
       arnulfstraße 150, munich
       hofmannstraße 51, munich
       berlin
       darwinstrasse 14 – 18/
       quedlinburger strasse 2
       holzhauser strasse 175 – 177
       eastern germany
       halberstädter straße 17, magdeburg
       ludwig-erhard-straße 49, leipzig
       spitzweidenweg 107, jena
       washingtonstraße 16/16a, dresden
       zellescher weg 21– 25a, dresden
       hamburg
       alte königstraße 29 – 39
       alter steinweg 4
       amsinckstraße 28
       amsinckstraße 34
       bäckerbreitergang 73 –75
       basselweg 73
       besenbinderhof 41
       buxtehuder straße 9 – 11a                   
       drehbahn 36
       englische planke 2
       ernst-merck-straße 9 (bieberhaus)
       garstedter weg 13
       grindelberg 62 – 66
       hamburger straße 43 – 49
       hamburger straße 1–15 tower
       hammer steindamm 129
       herthastraße 20
       johanniswall 4
       kattunbleiche 19
       ludwig-rosenberg-ring 41
       max-brauer-allee 41– 43
       max-brauer-allee 89 – 91

properties                                 electricity  heating     water       waste
                                          ’13 ’12 ’11 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’13 ’12 ’11 ’13 ’12 ’11
nagelsweg 41– 45
öjendorfer weg 9 –11
rahlstedter straße 151–157
steinstraße 10
steinstraße 5 –7
süderstraße 24
wandsbeker chaussee 220
hesse
emil-von-behring-straße 2, frankfurt/m.
goldsteinstraße 114, frankfurt/m.
gustav-nachtigal-straße 3, wiesbaden
gustav-nachtigal-straße 4, wiesbaden
insterburger straße 16, frankfurt/m.                                    
mainzer landstraße 33a, frankfurt/m.
siemensstraße, neu-isenburg                             
stresemannallee 30, frankfurt/m.
lower saxony
werner-von-siemens-platz 1, hanover
north rhine-westphalia
am wehrhahn 33, düsseldorf
bamlerstraße 1– 5, essen
doktorweg 2– 4, detmold
emanuel-leutze-straße 11, düsseldorf
friedrichstraße 19, düsseldorf
gathe 78, wuppertal
georg-glock-straße 18, düsseldorf
gereonsdriesch 13, cologne
hans-böckler-straße 36, düsseldorf
horbeller straße 11, cologne
ivo-beucker-straße 43, düsseldorf
jagenbergstraße 1, neuss
kaistraße 16, 16a, 18, düsseldorf
development assets
arndtstraße 1, hanover
hamburger straße 1–15 center, hamburg
harburger ring 17, hamburg
kaiser-wilhelm-straße 79 – 87, hamburg
landshuter allee 174, munich
max-eyth-straße 2, dortmund
schaartor 1, hamburg
acquisitions
hauptstätter straße 65–67, stuttgart
immermannstraße 40, düsseldorf
disposals
bornbarch 2–12, norderstedt
joliot-curie-platz 29 – 30, halle

alstria sustainability report 2014

92      appendix




       glossary
                   asset value-driven management and/or optimisation of real estate invest-
             management ments through letting management, refurbishment, repositioning
                         and tenant management.

                        bafin the federal financial supervisory authority brings together under
                              one roof the supervision of banks and ﬁnancial services providers,
                              insurance undertakings and securities trading. it is an autonomous
                              public-law institution and is subject to the legal and technical over-
                              sight of the federal ministry of finance.

                           bid business improvement districts are well-deﬁned business dictricts
                               formed to undertake improvement measures. they are funded by
                               all real estate owners within the district through a municipal levy.

                   breeam building research establishment environmental assessment method is
                          an environmental assessment method and rating system for sustain-
                          able building design, construction, operation and the measurement
                          of a building's environmental performance.

                          cdp carbon disclosure project is an independent not-for-proﬁt organ-
                              isation working to drive greenhouse gas emissions reduction and
                              sustainable water use by business and cities. it aims to set up a global
                              database for carbon emissions.

          climate change changes in the worlds’ climate caused by increased concentration of
                         greenhouse gases (particularly carbon dioxide) in the atmosphere.
                         the term is used interchangeably with global warming.

                           co2 carbon dioxide, a gas produced primarily through the combustion
                               of fossil fuels. it is believed to be the main cause of climate change.

        code of conduct a formal statement including values and business practices of a com-
                        pany together with a pledge by the company to observe.

                 corporate the system by which business corporations are directed and con-
                governance trolled. a set of relationships between a company’s management,
                           its board, its shareholders and other stakeholders.

                       cress construction and real estate sector supplement is a supplement to
                             the gri guidelines for the special disclosure requirements of compa-
                             nies from the real estate and construction sector.

corporate social responsibility – a form of corporate self-regulation csr
integrated into a business model. the term is used interchangeably
with the terms ‘sustainability’, and ‘environmental, social and gov-
ernance (esg)’.

deutsche gesellschaft für nachhaltiges bauen/the german sustaina- dgnb
ble building council establishes a system for the assessment and the
certiﬁcation of sustainable buildings.

deutscher investor relations verband e. v./ the german investor dirk
relations association sets standards for the communication between
companies and the capital market.

the german energy savings ordinance regulates energy perfor- enev
mance of buildings and building stock as well as energy certiﬁcation
of buildings.

european public real estate association is an organisation which epra
represents the interests of the major european property management
companies and supports the development and market presence of
european public property companies.

employer’s adoption of employment practices which do not discrim- equal
inate on the basis of race, colour, religion, sex or national origin. the opportunities
opposite of discrimination.

european securities and markets authority is an independent insti- esma
tution with the mission of enhancing the protection of investors and
reinforcing stable and well functioning ﬁnancial markets in the eu-
ropean union by building a single rule book for eu ﬁnancial markets
and ensuring its consistent application and supervision across the eu.

funds from operations are result from real estate management. ffo
alstria’s ffo represents the operating result, excluding valuation ef-
fects and other adjustments such as non-cash expenses/income and
non-recurring effects.

forest stewardship council is a independent, non-governmental, not- fsc
for-proﬁt organisation which established a certiﬁcation programme
for the labelling of products from sustainable sources.

alstria sustainability report 2014

94      appendix




                          gfa gross floor area is a real estate term referring to the total ﬂoor
                              area inside the building envelope, including the external walls, and
                              excluding the roof.

             ghg protocol the greenhouse gas protocol is the most widely used international
                          accounting tool for government and business leaders to understand,
                          quantify and manage greenhouse gas emissions.

                           gri global reporting initiative is a network-based organisation which re-
                               leases widely used sustainability reporting guidelines. these guidelines
                               are for voluntary use by organisations for reporting on the economic,
                               environmental and social dimensions of their activities, products and
                               services.

                           ipd investment property database is an organisation which analyses the
                               performance of real estate.

             joint venture legally independent entity formed between two or more parties to
                           undertake economic activity together. it is jointly controlled by the
                           parties under a contractual arrangement whereby decisions on ﬁnan-
                           cial and operating policies essential to the operation, performance
                           and ﬁnancial position of the venture require each party’s consent.

                         kwh kilowatt hour – a unit of energy.

                      oekom oekom research ag is one of the world’s leading rating agencies
                            and provides the crucial head start in the segment of sustainable
                            investments.

               operational the boundaries that determine the direct and indirect emissions asso-
                 approach ciated with operations owned or controlled by the reporting company.

                property property management is the management of real estate assets in-
             management cluding the processes, systems and manpower required to manage
                         the life cycle of a building.

                          reit real estate investment trusts are public listed companies, fully tax
                               transparent, which solely invest in properties.

                          risk a measure of the probability that damage to life, health, property
                               and/or the environment will occur as a result of a given hazard. risk
                               is measured in terms of impact and likelihood.

the introduction of change or control measures with the intention risk management
of eliminating or bringing the level of risk associated with a hazard
within acceptable limits.

research and development.                                           r&d

sustainable investment in real estate.                              sire

an individual, community or organisation that affects or is affected stakeholder
by some aspect of an organisation’s products, operations, markets,
industries and outcomes.

alignment of an organisation’s products and services with stake- sustainability
holder expectations, thereby adding economic, environmental and
social value.

a principle that allows those affected by administrative decisions, transparency
business transactions or charitable work to know not only the basic
facts and ﬁgures, but also the mechanisms and processes. it is the
duty of civil servants, managers and trustees to act visibly, predictably
and logically.

the urban land insitute greenprint center is a worldwide alliance uli greenprint
of leading real estate owners, investors, and strategic partners com- center for build-
mitted to improving the environmental performance of the global ing performance
real estate industry.

united nations educational, scientiﬁc and cultural organisation – unesco
its purpose is to contribute to peace and security by promoting in-
ternational collaboration through education, science and culture in
order to further universal respect for justice, the rule of law and
human rights along with fundamental freedoms proclaimed in the
un charter.

the core beliefs we hold regarding what is right and fair in terms of values
our actions and our interactions with others.

zentraler immobilienausschuss/the german property federation is zia
a regulatory and economic lobby group for policy in the property
sector.

alstria sustainability report 2014

96      appendix




       editorial comment
       all the information in this report has been       the actual results and developments may,
       compiled in good faith and with great care        therefore, differ signiﬁcantly from our to-
       from various sources. to the best of our          day’s assumptions. we also do not assume
       knowledge, the information and data con-          any obligation to update any forward-looking
       tained in this report reﬂect the truth. nev-      statements if new information is obtained or
       ertheless, we cannot assume liability for the     unexpected events occur.
       correctness or completeness of the informa-       insofar as the masculine form is used in the
       tion provided herein.                             contents of this report, it is assumed that this
       this applies in particular also to any for-       refers to both genders on equal terms.
       ward-looking statements made in respect
       of the development of business matters and        we would like to thank all colleagues and
       ﬁnancial results of alstria ofﬁce reit-ag; such   external partners for their friendly support in
       statements are based upon our current plans,      making this report possible.
       assessments, prognoses and expectations, as
       well as upon economic, political and other
       developments and factors which to the most
       extent are beyond our scope of inﬂuence.


       note
       this csr report is also available in german.

       concept, design and realisation
       teresa henkel

       picture credits
         4 – 5 annegret hultsch
            30 planen + bauen spranger & büll
       38 – 39 thomas lorenz
       44 – 45 diephotodesigner
       60 – 61 jesko braun
       76 – 77 alstria




       as we would like to improve continuously, we      sustainability contact
       are happy to receive your comments on this        robert kitel
       report. please feel free to ﬁll in the feedback   phone › +49 (0) 40 22 63 41-337
       form on our website » www.alstria.com/en/         fax    › +49 (0) 40 22 63 41-310
       sustainability/feedback/                          e-mail › sustainability@alstria.de
       or to contact us directly:                        www.alstria.com/en/sustainability/

alstria ofﬁce reit-ag
www.alstria.com

bäckerbreitergang 75               friedrichstrasse 19
20355 hamburg, germany             40217 düsseldorf, germany
phone › + 49 (0) 40 22 63 41-300   phone › + 49 (0) 211 30 12 16-600
fax   › + 49 (0) 40 22 63 41-310   fax     › + 49 (0) 211 30 12 16-615
