sustainability
factsheet 2014
asia pacific breweries (singapore) pte ltd

 welcome


 how we are brewing a better world


                                                         400+
                                                           employees




                                                         14
                                                         main brands
                                                                                   brewing a better world is our long-term
                                                                                   approach for creating shared, sustainable
                                                                                   value for our business and stakeholders.
                                                                                   samson wong
                                                                                   general manager, asia pacific breweries
                                                                                   (singapore) pte ltd



         protecting water resources
 water is vital for life and critical for the well-being of
 the communities and ecosystems in which we
 operate.
 in 2014, apbs reduced our annual water consumption by 4.4%, from 4.5
 hl/hl to 4.3 hl/hl. in line with global targets, we aim to reduce our
 consumption further by 9.3% to 4.0 hl/hl in 2015. we disbursed the first
 instalment of s$100,000 under the apbs water education fund to the van
 kleef center, our partnership with the national university of singapore to
 champion research and education and conservation in water-scarce
 singapore.

          reducing co2
 our focus is to reduce the total carbon footprint
          emissions
 of our products across the value chain.
 apbs has achieved a 17.8% reduction in carbon emissions since 2008
 through good production practices, loss reduction, equipment optimisation
 and using renewable resources where possible. some of these initiatives
 include: 1) waste heat recovery system in our brewing processes; 2) natural
 light optimisation by remodelling some of our roof to let in natural light; and
 3) energy efficient machinery that runs on highly efficient pumps and motors.



          sourcing sustainably
 we want to operate in a way that ensures a
 sustainable and consistent supply of raw materials.
 more than half of our suppliers have signed on to our supplier code in 2014.
 we target to have 100% of suppliers signed on before the end of 2015.
 apbs is committed to packaging efficiency and reducing waste and has
 saved an estimated 51 tons of aluminium annually by reducing the diameter
 of our can lids. apbs has also implemented a recycling programme to reuse
 80% of our glass bottles that results in a reduction of about 25,000 metric
 tonnes of packaging waste from singapore’s landfills annually. for our
 efforts, we won the gold award in the 2014 3r packaging awards given out
 by the national environment agency.

asia pacific breweries singapore                                                                  sustainability factsheet 2014

        advocating responsible consumption
 as one of the world’s leading brewers we actively
 promote the responsible consumption of alcohol.
 in moderation.
 in 2014, apbs launched tips (training for intervention procedures)
 together with the association of bartenders and sommeliers singapore to
 train bar staff to recognise, intervene and prevent potential alcohol-related
 problems such as intoxication and underage consumption. our employees
 too were reminded of responsible consumption at our annual enjoy
 responsibly day event where they took part in a quiz on alcohol facts.
 apbs also partnered the traffic police in its annual anti-drink drive
 campaign in 2014, to promote responsible drinking and driving.


         promoting health and safety
 safety and healthy employees are an organisation’s
 strongest assets.
 in 2014, apbs reported an accident frequency rate of 1.67 per fte and an
 accident severity rate of 6.7 per fte. apbs participated in the world safety
 & health day event where employees were reminded about safety through
 a series of engaging activities. apbs was also recognized for its workplace
 health and wellness program by winning the singapore health (helping
 employees achieve life-time health) gold award for 2014 given out by
 the health promotion board.



         growing with communities
 we recognise that a sustainable business is
 dependent on the stability and well-being of our
 community.
 apbs, in keeping up with its annual lunar new year tradition, hosted a
 charity dinner for 200 elderly beneficiaries at kreta ayer in 2014. over
 160 employees, for the first time, spring-cleaned 46 rented flats for the
 elderly at jalan kukoh. we supported ‘chair for a cause’, that provided
 1,500 tickets to beneficiaries of charities to enjoy the exhilarating multi-
 cultural performances at the chingay parade. over 130 apbs employees
 volunteered with willing hearts, a volunteer-run organisation providing
 daily meals and other support services for people in need, in support of the
 apb foundation in 2014.




                                            brewing a better world is integral to
            values and                      our way of working. in 2014, we
            behaviours                      adopted the heineken's values,
                                            rules, codes of conduct and policies.
                                            these values represent our global
  as our business grows, our
                                            position as a business partner, an
  core values remain strong
                                            employer and socially responsible
  and help to drive us towards
                                            corporate entity.
  achieving our objective.
  how we behave and work                    our values are:
  together is key to our                    1. passion for quality
  success.                                  2. enjoyment of life
                                            3. respect for individuals, society and
                                            the planet




asia pacific breweries singapore                                                      sustainability factsheet 2014

the years ahead


our global 2020 commitments
each focus area is underpinned by clear
commitments that state our ambitions
for 2020, with three-year milestones to
be achieved by 2015.




                         protecting water resources
                          reduce specific water consumption in the breweries by 30%1 to 3.5 hl/hl
                          aim for significant water compensation/balancing by our production units
                           in water-scarce and distressed areas.


                         reducing co2 emissions
                          in production by 40% 1
                          of our fridges by 50% 2
                          of distribution by 20% 3 in europe and the americas. 4


                         sourcing sustainably
                          aim for at least 50% of our main raw materials from sustainable sources
                          deliver 60% of agricultural raw materials in africa via local sourcing within the
                           continent
                          ongoing compliance with our supplier code procedure.

                         advocating responsible consumption
                          make responsible consumption aspirational through heineken ®
                          every market in scope has and reports publicly on a measurable partnership aimed
                           at addressing alcohol abuse
                          deliver global industry commitments.


                         promoting health and safety (2015 targets)
                            in production: reduce accident frequency by 10%
                            outside production: 90% of markets at 75% of sites reporting at least 1 near miss per quarter
                            sales: 2,000 sales managers trained in road safety
                            company-wide: e-learning completed by 90% of markets with 90% of employees trained.



                         growing with communities
                          supporting communities in which we operate to foster 'inclusive growth'
                          bottom-up philosophy with local targets where applicable.




1
 baseline 2008
2
 baseline 2010
3
 baseline 2011




     for the global sustainability report   to read more case studies and find    corporate relations department,
     2014, including detailed performance   out more about our ways of working,   asia pacific breweries (singapore) pte ltd @heinekencorp
     data and moving images visit:          visit www.apbsingapore.com.sg or      459 jalan ahmad ibrahim
     www.theheinekencompany.com/            email us at enquiries@apb.com.sg      singapore 639934.
     sustainability                                                               tel: +65 6860 3272 fax: +65 6862 3635
