                                                                                       10 th annual
                                                                                             2016-17
                                                                                                     report




business
responsibility report
section a   general information about the company



   1        corporate identification number                    l65993pn2007plc130076
   2        name of the company                                bajaj auto ltd.
   3        registered address                                 mumbai-pune road, akurdi, pune 411 035
   4        website                                            www.bajajauto.com
   5        email address                                      brr.response@bajajauto.co.in
   6        financial year reported                            1 april 2016 – 31 march 2017
   7        sector(s) that the company is engaged in           automobile
   8        three key products/services manufactured/          motorcycles and three and four wheeler
            provided by the company                            commercial vehicles
   9        total number of locations where business           akurdi, chakan and waluj (maharashtra)
            activity is undertaken by the company              and pantnagar (uttarakhand)
   10       markets served by the company                      india and 78 countries across the world


section b   financial details of the company



   1        paid up capital                                    h 289.37 crore
   2        total turnover                                     h 24,310.00 crore
   3        total profit after tax                             h 3,827.56 crore
   4        total spending on csr as percentage of pat         refer annual report on csr activities
   5        list of the activities in which expenditure in     refer annual report on csr activities
            4 above has been incurred



section c   other details



   1        does the company has any subsidiary                yes (for details, refer note 1 of
            company/companies?                                 consolidated financial statements)
   2        do the subsidiary company/companies                no, the br initiatives of the company are
            participate in the br initiatives of the parent    limited to its own operations
            company? if yes, then indicate the number of
            such subsidiary company(s)
   3        do any other entity/entities (e.g. suppliers,      no, the br initiatives of the company are
            distributors etc.) that the company does           limited to its own operations
            business with, participate in the br initiatives
            of the company? if yes, then indicate the
            percentage of such entity/entities
            [less than 30%, 30-60%, more than 60%]




                                                                                                           1

bajaj auto limited



          section d       br information



              1           details of director(s) responsible for br
                      (a) details of the director responsible for
                          implementation of the br policy
                          din                                          07464437
                          name                                         pradeep shrivastava
                          designation                                  executive director
                      (b) details of the br head
                          din (if applicable)                          not applicable
                          name                                         kevin d’sa
                          designation                                  cfo
                          telephone number                             (020) 6610 6601
                          e-mail id                                    kpdsa@bajajauto.co.in
              2           principle-wise br policy/policies            included in this report
              3           governance related to br                     included in this report


          section e       principle-wise performance



              1           principle-wise performance                   included in this report


        preface
        bajaj auto ltd. (‘bal’ or ‘the company’) presents its fifth ‘business responsibility report’ (brr), as
        mandated by securities and exchange board of india (sebi) and in line with the ‘national voluntary
        guidelines on social, environmental and economic responsibilities of business’ (nvgs) as released by
        the ministry of corporate affairs in july 2011. the business responsibility performance of the company
        is assessed annually by bal’s board of directors.


        principle 1: businesses should conduct and govern themselves with
        ethics, transparency and accountability
        ethics, transparency and accountability are central to bal’s business philosophy. the company believes
        that trust, integrity and credibility are key elements in creating value for its stakeholders. in order to
        ensure that these principles are adhered to, bal adopted a company-wide ‘code of conduct’ (coc) in
        2009. it describes integrity, cultural and good working norms as well as the process to address any
        violations. all bal employees are required to adhere to the coc’s requisites and they are introduced to
        the same during induction.

        the coc also contains a ‘grievance redressal policy’ and a ‘whistle blower policy’ which enable
        employees to raise concerns to the company’s management. no complaints were received with
        respect to the above two policies in the year 2016-17.

        there is a separate coc specifically applicable to the company’s directors and senior management. it
        states that ‘directors and senior managers shall observe the highest standards of ethical conduct and
        integrity and shall work to the best of their ability and judgment’. all directors and senior
        management personnel have affirmed compliance with the coc. a declaration to this effect, signed by
        the managing director, is given in the annual report.

        the company is also signatory to the model code of conduct developed by confederation of indian
        industry (cii). it seeks to promote ethical practices in business and was signed by the company’s
        executive director on 13 april 2016.

        additionally, bal is an industry partner of the world economic forum’s initiative, ‘partnership against
        corruption initiative’ (paci), and has a policy of a zero-tolerance towards bribery.

2

                                                                                         10 th annual
                                                                                               2016-17
                                                                                                       report




principle 2: businesses should provide goods and services that are
safe and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle
bal is a firm believer in the philosophy that aligning business actions with sustainability goals ensures
long-term growth for the company. it recognises that its business operations are dependent on the
natural environment while simultaneously impacting it. thus, it invests time and resources to ensure
safety and resource efficiency at all stages of the product life, including product development, plant
operations and supply chain management.


product sustainability
all bal products are compliant with the environmental standards in the indian central motor vehicle
rules (cmvr), as applicable from time to time. this includes regulating the tail-pipe emissions of air
pollutants such as carbon monoxide (co), hydrocarbons (hc), nitrogen oxides (nox) gases as well as
particulate matter, as applicable. for such compliances, all bal models are ‘type approval’ certified by
the automotive research association of india (arai).

bal also ensures compliance with the conformity of production (cop) requirements for emissions,
under cmvr. all existing bal models are bs iv compliant and certified by arai. additionally, bal
ensures that models which are exported to various countries meet the varying environmental
requirements applicable for each country.

in a preliminary study of bal products, it was observed that their recyclability and recoverability rates
were 87% and 94% respectively.

bal is constantly working towards improving the fuel efficiency of its two and three-wheeler models.
it has introduced a few high fuel efficiency models, which are one of the best in the class.


sustainable sourcing
bal’s ‘green purchasing policy’ outlines the company’s requirements for energy, water and natural
resource conservation for the entire supply chain. as per this policy, all major vendors are being
certified for iso 14001 and ohsas 18001 management systems.

an update is provided in the table below:
                                                                                iso 14001/ohsas 18001
                                                                                  certified cumulative
vendor cluster                                                                   fy2016          fy2017



chakan                                                                              36             43
waluj                                                                               52             61
pantnagar                                                                           17             19
total                                                                              105             123


all bal plants have a cluster of vendors located in close proximity to the plant. bal engages with its
vendors through the ‘bajaj auto vendor association’ (bava). currently, bava has 153 members out of,
which 123 are iso 14001/ohsas 18001 certified. going forward, the company plans to make such
certifications a mandatory requirement for all future vendors who want to become bava members.

cross audits are conducted among critical vendors by safety officers. these audits, along with regular
bava meetings, enable mutual learning. they provide the members with a platform to share their
experiences, initiatives and best practices on various topics related to environmental, health and
safety (ehs), quality improvement and logistics efficiency.

another supply chain sustainability initiative is bal’s ‘total productive maintenance’ (tpm) policy,
practiced by tier i and ii vendors which has helped improve their operational, human and cost
efficiencies. as on date, 17 tier i vendor groups and 222 tier ii vendors are practising tpm. in order to
encourage adoption of tpm, bal tpm awards have been instituted to recognise vendors who are the
best performers in tpm.
                                                                                                            3

bajaj auto limited



        to further ensure compliance with regulations and promote the adoption of good environmental
        practices among vendors, third party legal and environmental audit of vendors has been started in the
        pantnagar, waluj and chakan clusters. also, energy audit for one vendor in each cluster was
        undertaken in the presence of other vendors of the cluster. this helped all of them identify best
        practices in energy efficiency and loss elimination. as a result, energy saving to the tune of 54 lakh
        units (kwh) was achieved in the year 2016-17.

        enhancing the efficiency of processes has dual benefits, it reduces their environmental impact, while
        also effecting their cost efficiency in a positive way. to reduce the cost of logistics, bal focuses on the
        ‘bill to ship to’ (b2s2) initiative which has now been extended to the pantnagar cluster. bal also
        conducts a ‘cluster kaizen competition’ every quarter to extend its culture of continuous improvement
        to vendors.

        as planned in the previous year, ‘swachh bharat abhiyan’ was rolled out across all three clusters
        this year. the activities under this program have progressed according to the road map. the initial
        cleaning and fencing activity was completed around the periphery of units, totalling to more than
        28 kms. along with fencing, tree plantation was undertaken and more than 50,000 saplings
        were planted. more than 100 swachhata rallies, involving 3,000 people, were organised to
        create awareness.


        waste reduction
        bal makes continuous efforts to reduce the quantum of waste being generated, directly or indirectly,
        due to its operations. for this, it works closely with its vendors, who now supply more than 95% of the
        parts in reusable plastic bins and trollies. by adopting the philosophy of continuous improvement, the
        quantity of corrugated box material used for packaging has been reduced. waste paint sludge
        generated in paint shops is burnt in incinerators to generate heat. this simultaneously reduces the
        quantity of waste that needs to be disposed and the energy that needs to be procured.


        principle 3: businesses should promote the well-being of all
        bal believes that its employees are one of its greatest assets. thus, it ensures the well-being of its
        employees by creating a safe, inclusive and positive work environment that nurtures a high
        performance culture for its workforce.

        in the year 2016-17, bal hired 1,715 employees, including 273 regular employees, 1,425 trainees and
        17 contractual employees. this has taken the total headcount to 9,509. all four plants have company
        recognised trade unions, and 48.73% of the employees are members of the same. currently, bal has
        25 permanent employees with disabilities.

        bal encourages employment of women across the organisation. as on 31 march 2017, there were
        362 women employees in bal, including 128 regular employees and 234 trainees, representing a 12%
        increase over last year. the company has a policy on ‘prevention of sexual harassment at workplace’
        (posh) in place to ensure the safety and security of women employees. as part of the international
        women’s day celebration, a programme called ‘shakti – women in focus’ was conceptualised. this
        was the way to celebrate and engage the women workforce with the larger objective of positioning
        bal as a woman friendly organisation. it underlined the fact that women employees in the company
        are safe, both emotionally and physically and know that the environment at bal is conducive to their
        development and growth. with inputs from different stakeholders, a week-long learning, engagement
        and recognition programme was simultaneously held across all the four locations. this programme also
        included short sessions on various relevant topics like posh, personal finance, stress and work life
        balance, campus to corporate, self-defense and health & nutrition.




4

                                                                                         10 th annual
                                                                                               2016-17
                                                                                                       report



bal believes that continuously enhancing the skills of its workforce goes a long way in increasing the
overall productivity of the organisation. therefore, it provides all its employees various avenues for skill
upgradation. in the year 2016-17, more than 3,350 employees were trained through more than 235
training programmes, spanning 6,138 man-days. over and above this, 11,836 man-days of training
was conducted for workers and cell members through tpm pillars, which included safety, health and
environment related training of 5,477 man-days.

bal’s flagship programme for leadership development, ‘act to adapt’, which was designed in
collaboration with iim – ahmedabad, continues to nurture future leaders for the company. further,
all developmental efforts are aligned to the leadership competency framework (anticipate – align –
adapt – act). the ‘relationship management program’ was introduced this year for employees in
higher positions. this enabled smooth transition of employees into their new roles.

the company conducts regular audits for its contract labour suppliers, which ensures that they are
compliant with all applicable norms.

in march 2017, bal has also made the ‘charter of fair and responsible workplace guidelines’ for
contract labour and collaborative employee relations.

during the year 2016-17, there were no complaints filed or pending relating to child labour, forced
labour, involuntary labour, sexual harassment or discriminatory employment.


principle 4: businesses should respect the interests of, and be
responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who are
disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalised
bal is an equal opportunity employer and ensures that there is no discrimination of any type for socially
disadvantaged sections in the work place. to formalise its commitment, it launched the ‘code of conduct
for affirmative action’ in 2006, which ensures that preference is given to people from socially
disadvantaged sections of the society, provided merit and other business considerations are equal.

in line with affirmative action, in the year 2016-17, bal recruited 1,715 new employees of which
142 (8.28%) belong to scheduled castes and scheduled tribes.


principle 5: businesses should respect and promote human rights
the company is dedicated to uphold the human rights of all its internal and external stakeholders.
it ensures compliance with all applicable laws pertaining to human rights. a legal compliance report
is submitted to the company’s board of directors on a quarterly basis. there were no complaints on
violation of human rights in the year 2016-17.


principle 6: business should respect, protect and make efforts to
restore the environment
bal continually strives to minimise the environmental impact of its operations through sustainable
practices and responsible use of natural resources. further, it is committed to creating and preserving a
clean environment and society.

bal is dedicated to the continual improvement of its safety, occupational health and environmental
performance. it continues to remain in full compliance with all applicable regulations.

bal’s safety, health and environment (she) policy guides the decisions and operations of the
company. ‘safety’ creates a safe working environment and ensures that the risk of accidents is
minimised. ‘health’ covers provision of individual health check-ups, worker training on hygiene and
health practices, access to safe drinking water, noise reduction etc. ‘environment’ refers to the
initiatives that reduce air, water and land pollution, as well as management of hazardous waste and
resource conservation.




                                                                                                               5

bajaj auto limited



        plant-wise highlights of key environmental initiatives are provided below:

        chakan plant                                            waluj plant



        certificate of merit (automobile sector) - national     awarded national award for excellence in water
        energy conservation award 2016 organised by             management 2016 by confederation of indian
        bureau of energy efficiency                             industry (cii)
        2 mw rooftop solar plant being installed -              excellent energy efficient unit award at national level
        phase i-1.2 mw completed                                by cii - gbc
        12% reduction in energy consumption of the              use of renewable energy increased by 41.27% to
        paint shop by reduction in emission height and          reach 58.47% of total energy consumed
        installation of energy efficient blowers. also, heat
        energy required for pre-treatment process in paint
        shop is sourced through heat recovery at the
        in-house incinerator. this serves 30% of total heat
        energy requirement
        4,000 cu. meter capacity of rain water harvesting       20% reduction in intensity of water consumption
        pond restored                                           (cu. meter/vehicle produced)
        kaizens have resulted in reduction of plastic           1.71% reduction in intensity of electricity
        consumption by 6,014 kg/year and corrugated box         consumption (kwh/vehicle produced)
        material by 19,350 kg/year
        harvested rain water used for construction purpose      five rain water harvesting ponds with a combined
        during expansion of the plant                           capacity of 70,000 cu. meter have been constructed
        green building features incorporated during             collaborated with vendors to help them reduce their
        expansion-use of fly ash bricks, transparent roof       water consumption by 75%
        for harnessing day light, use of wind ventilators for
        human comfort and use of energy efficient lighting
        chakan plant is certified with the latest version of    as part of the ‘swachh bharat abhiyan’, cleaned
        iso 14001, i.e. iso 14001-2015                          more than 3,000 mt of garbage in association
                                                                with vendors


        pantnagar plant                                         akurdi plant



        using solar energy to dry the sludge has reduced the 31.32% of electricity sourced from
        weight of the sludge by 75%, leading to reduction in renewable sources
        disposal cost
        notwithstanding load increase of approximately          r&d centre is a igbc gold certified construction
        440 kva, kaizens have helped reduce power               with the following attributes:
        consumption by 401,100 units/year compared to           1. radiant cooling
        last year                                               2. 100% day light usage
                                                                3. electric vehicle charging points
                                                                4. energy and water conservation devices and fittings
                                                                5. recharge pit for ground water recharge
                                                                6. source segregation of waste
                                                                7. low emitting material used in construction
                                                                   and hvac
        kaizens have reduced png consumption by                 1.11 mw rooftop solar plant installed in
        35,052 scm/year compared to last year                   march 2017. total installed solar capacity is
                                                                1.22 mw
        kaizens have reduced water consumption by               221,622 kwh reduction in electricity consumption
        10,850 kl/year compared to last year
                                                                25,000 cu. meter reduction in water consumption
                                                                booklet distribution to raise awareness about
                                                                electrical safety




6

                                                                                        10 th annual
                                                                                              2016-17
                                                                                                      report



other initiatives



100% of canteen waste at akurdi, pantnagar and chakan is composted.
rallies were organised at chakan and waluj to raise awareness about waste reduction.
both waluj and chakan are water positive plants with patented rain water harvesting structures.


all four plants



certified under iso 14001, 9001 and ohsas 18001.
zero effluent discharge (outside plant).
all plants have shifted from thinner to water based paints.


all plants of bal operate as per the ‘consent-to-operate’ provided by the respective state pollution
control board (spcb) and are within permissible limits with regards to the emissions and waste
generated. no show cause notice was received from the central pollution control board or the
respective spcb.


principle 7: businesses, when engaged in influencing public and
regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner
as a responsible member of various national as well as international associations, bal actively engages
in policy advocacy. bal presents its views on the setting of new industry standards and regulatory
developments pertaining to the automotive manufacturing industry. it covers areas such as governance
and administration, economic reforms, inclusive development policies, among others.

some of the key associations of which bal is member are:

l   confederation of indian industry (cii)
l   society of indian automobile manufacturers
l   association of indian automobile manufacturers
l   world economic forum
l   federation of indian export organisations
l   business and community foundation
l   indian federation of green energy
l   international road federation - india chapter
l   the automotive research association of india
l   mahratta chamber of commerce, industries and agriculture
l   nafems ltd.
l   national safety council
l   the advertising standards council of india
l   forum of free enterprise
l   indian merchant chamber
l   bombay chamber of commerce and industry


principle 8: businesses should support inclusive growth and
equitable development
the corporate social responsibility (csr) activities of bajaj group are guided by the vision and philosophy
of its founder, late shri jamnalal bajaj, who embodied the concept of trusteeship in business and
common good, and laid the foundation for ethical, value-based and transparent functioning.

bajaj group believes that true and full measure of growth, success and progress lies beyond balance
sheets or conventional economic indices. it is best reflected in the difference that business and industry
make to the lives of people.




                                                                                                              7

bajaj auto limited



        through its social investments, bajaj group addresses the needs of communities residing in the vicinity
        of its facilities by taking sustainable initiatives in the areas of health, education, environment
        conservation, infrastructure and community development, and response to natural calamities.
        for society, however, bajaj is more than a corporate identity. it is a catalyst for social empowerment
        and the reason behind the smiles that light up a million faces.

        its goodwill resonates in the two simple words that live in the collective consciousness of
        indians-hamara bajaj.

        guiding principles

        the bajaj group believes that social investments should:

        l   benefit generations: the company believes in ‘investment in resource creation’ for use over
            generations. the company tries to identify sustainable projects which will benefit the society over
            long periods.

        l   educate for self-reliance and growth: to usher in a growth-oriented society and thereby a very
            strong and prosperous nation, by educating each and every indian.

        l   promote health: the company believes good health is a pre-requisite for both education
            and productivity.

        l   encourage for self-help: to guide and do hand holding for self-help, individually and collectively
            to create excellence for self and for the team.

        l   be focused: the company believes that activities should be focused around locations where it has
            a presence and hence can effectively guide, monitor and implement specific projects.

        l   target those who need it most: care for the sections of the society, which are socially at the
            lowest rung irrespective of their religion or caste or language or colour.

        l   sustain natural resources: the company encourages balanced development and ensure least
            adverse impact on environment – growth with mother nature’s–blessings.

        our activities
        (please refer to the annual report on csr activities for a detailed list of partners and grant amounts)

        1. education

            l   the two flagship projects for bajaj auto ltd. have been the bajaj education initiative (bei) and
                the e-learning project. the bei covers 76 low cost schools (a mix of private and government
                schools) in pimpri-chinchwad area of pune, and supports them with infrastructure development
                and capacity building. the e-learning project has reached more than 1,550 schools till date -
                covering maharashtra and rajasthan. both of these are implemented by jankidevi bajaj gram
                vikas sanstha, our group ngo.

            l   in addition, bajaj auto also supported school infrastructure development, vocational training for
                entrepreneurship, teach-to-lead as well as scholarships for meritorious students.

            l   bajaj auto is also supporting bharatiya yuva shakti trust (byst) in training 25,000 young
                persons in aurangabad and wardha to create 1,000 entrepreneurs in five years. over 177
                entrepreneurs have been created in the first two years of the project.

        2. environment and natural resources

            l   the extreme drought faced by many parts of the country, including in maharashtra in 2014-15
                and 2015-16, has highlighted the need for water conservation and increasing water availability.
                bajaj auto has been working with jankidevi bajaj gram vikas sanstha (jbgvs) on this for a long
                time and has now expanded the size and scope of this activity to make it a focus area in the
                coming years.

8

                                                                                       10 th annual
                                                                                             2016-17
                                                                                                     report



   l   bajaj auto, in partnership with other bajaj group companies, is supporting jbgvs in launching
       the bajaj water conservation project (bwcp) at aurangabad. bwcp aims to cover an area of
       21,500 hectares over the next four years with jbgvs and is looking for partner ngos to take
       up an additional 44,000 hectares.

   l   in addition, bajaj auto has supported paani foundation for water conservation work in
       maharashtra.

   l   bajaj auto has continued its support to swachh bharat abhiyan by taking part in ‘bajaj
       majhi city taka-tak’ programme run by crt, municipal corporation, aurangabad and cii.
       this programme aims to make aurangabad a clean city, with minimal quantity of garbage
       going to landfills. bulk of the wet garbage will be composted or used for bio-gas production
       and recyclable wastes will be sent to a recycling agency. the process is on and is likely to be
       completed by end of 2017.

   l   starting 2016-17, bajaj auto also supported icrier in construction of a new green building.

3. health

   l   bajaj auto works with a wide array of partners on issues related to health. the supported
       projects include projects on mid-day meals, clean drinking water, sanitation, blood banks, and
       pathology lab services in remote mountain villages, breast cancer research and vision care.

   l   bajaj auto and ycm hospital pune, in collaboration with national aids central organisation,
       have also been operating the art centre in ycm hospital. this centre supports more than
       5,000 patients currently.

   l   bajaj auto has also financially supported sri aurobindo society, puducherry, to set up the
       ‘international centre of excellence for integral yoga’.

4. women’s empowerment and self-reliance

   l   bajaj auto has supported iiser, one of india’s leading research institutes, in constructing a
       dedicated hall of residence for women research scholars. bajaj auto has continued to support
       the banasthali vidyapeeth (a women’s university) in setting up a hostel, a bajaj centre for
       automation and bajaj law school.

   l   bajaj auto also supports the kailash satyarthi children’s foundation in its work on holistic
       development and empowerment of children.

5. supporting armed forces and veterans

   l   bajaj auto has contributed h 1 crore to the armed forces flag day fund. bajaj auto
       has also supported paraplegic rehabilitation centre at khadki, pune, with 20
       state-of-the-art wheelchairs.

6. rural development and other projects

   l   bajaj auto has supported sevagram pratishthan at wardha for renovation of bapu kutir and
       associated buildings. bajaj auto has also initiated a partnership with raja dinkar kelkar museum
       at pune for renovation of the museum.

   l   other supported organisations include social work research centre - barefoot college (tilonia),
       development initiative for self-help and awakening – disha (pune), chinmaya organisation for
       rural development (new delhi), prafulla dahanukar arts foundation (mumbai) etc.




                                                                                                          9

bajaj auto limited




        principle 9: businesses should engage with and provide value to their
        customers and consumers in a responsible manner
        bal’s philosophy ‘distinctly ahead’ provides guidance for its customer engagement process. bal
        actively interacts with its customers through a variety of platforms such as call centres, web-based
        interfaces, dealer showrooms and service centres. the company also organises service camps at various
        locations to interact with customers at a personal level and solve their issues.

        bal engages with its customers at different levels. in an endeavour to engage with its two-wheeler
        customers, bal organises various riding activities in key markets. for its commercial vehicle
        customers, bal has programmes to empower current and potential three-wheeler drivers.
        as part of its ‘driver bane malik’ initiative, contract drivers are assisted in purchasing their own vehicles.
        the ‘swarozgar campaign’ encourages rural youth to enter the three-wheeler business.

        the ‘certified service technician’ programme helps local technicians by providing them the required
        tools and training. this helps the technicians increase their income, while simultaneously providing
        a wider network of trained technicians for bal customers.

        the company conducts regular surveys with the dealers, brokers, roadside mechanics and its large
        network of retailers. it also tracks customer satisfaction trends at pre-defined intervals for significant
        product launches.

        to ensure that its customers remain safe while driving its vehicles, bal provides an owner’s manual
        with each vehicle. the manual includes safety checking mechanisms, do’s and don’ts and fuel
        saving tips, thus encouraging consumers to use bal’s vehicles in a responsible manner. during the
        year 2016-17, 124 cases were filed at the consumer forum, while 398 cases are pending as on
        31 march 2017.

        hygiene factors in advertisements, such as displaying helmets being used by all passengers on bikes
        and disclaimers for advertisements with bikes performing stunts are ensured by the marketing
        department. bal is a signatory to advertising standard council of india (asci), who can evaluate and
        provide corrective recommendations for advertisements. there were no complaints received from
        asci in the year 2016-17.




10
