annual report 2016
driving cloud growth
basware's cloud revenues grew strongly,
approaching half of total net sales in 2016. the
focus is on customers and their success,
improving execution and simplifying operations
to boost future growth.




                                                          strategy: growing cloud revenues is
                                                          the number one strategic priority
                                                          cloud revenue growth is basware’s primary objective and
                                                          where long term value in our business will be created. as
                                                          the market leader in networked purchase to pay, basware
                                                          is uniquely well positioned to capture the potential in the
                                                          market.




ceo’s review: focus on cloud growth
i am very excited to have been given the opportunity to
lead basware. we are very lucky as baswareans to work
in a company that is operating in a fast moving market
with signi cant growth potentia.

                                                basware      responsibility: 100% paperless
                                                100%         as th e l  arge stop e n b usine ss ne tw ork in th e w orld, basw are
                                                paperless    p rovide s scal  e and re ach for organiz ations ofal     l
                                                                           ing th e m to grow th e ir b usine ss b y sim p l
                                                             siz e s,e nab l                                                ifying
                                                             and stre am l   ining nancialp roce sse s w h il   e re ducing th e ir
                                                             carb on footp rintth rough p ap e rl    e ss p roce sse s.




baswareans: gearing up for the future
th e com p any continue s to ge ar up for th e future ,
                 e tak ing ce nte r stage .se ve ral
w ith its p e op l
actions w e re tak e n to sup p ortth e strate gic
p riority to e volve th e com p any cul   ture and w ay of
w ork ing to focus m ore on p e rform ance and
stre ngth e n th e custom e r- ce ntric m indse t.




                                                             solutions and services:
                                                             innovation in the limelight
                                                             basw are is th e glob all  e ade r in p roviding ne tw ork e d
                                                             p urch ase -to-p ay (p2p) sol  utions and de l  ive ring th e b e st
                                                               nancialsup p l y ch ain e xp e rie nce .w e are h e lp ing our
                                                             custom e rs to re aliz e tom orrow ’s nancialgoal        s today.




corporate governance
th e corp orate g ove rnance state m e ntis issue d
           y from th e re p ortofboard ofdire ctors.
se p arate l
                                               ab l
both th e re p ortand th e state m e ntare avail   e
in our e -annualre p ort.

year 2016
driving cloud growth
during 2016 basware’s key focus was to pursue cloud revenue growth
with strong outcomes: our cloud revenues grew 26.9% and accounted for
almost half of our total net sales at the end of 2016. also, our saas growth
was very strong in 2016, up 95% for the full year.



q1                                                   q2
basware acquired verian, a leading cloud-            basware positioned as a leader in gartner’s
based e-procurement solution provider in the         2016 magic quadrant for procure-to-pay suites
us.                                                  report for second consecutive year.


q3                                                   q4
basware boosted supplier collaboration with          basware refined its strategy targets with furthe
global marketplace.                                  focus on execution and cloud growth.




group key financial performance indicators
eur thousand
                                                             2016              2015           change
net sales                                                  148,580          143,410              3.6 %
ebitda                                                      -5,394           11,902
adjusted ebitda                                              2,063           12,121            -83.0 %
operating result                                           -13,946            4,676
% of net sales                                                                  3.3
result before tax                                          -16,256            3,563
result for the period                                      -14,318            3,083


return on equity, %                                          -10.5              2.2
return on investment, %                                       -6.8              3.6
liquid asset                                                35,755           33,238              7.6 %
gearing, %                                                     8.7             -22.4
equity ratio, %                                               58.5             79.1


earnings per share
undiluted, eur                                               -1.00             0.22
diluted, eur                                                 -1.00             0.22
equity per share, eur                                         9.26             9.97             -7.1 %




                          basware annual report 2016 – 3

net sales and operating result 2012-2016

                                                  143.4         148.6
                   123.3           127.6
     113.7


                                                                               net sales, meur

                                                                               operating result, meur

             8.3           3.3             4.3            4.6          -13.9

       2012          2013              2014         2015         2016




net sales by type, 2015-2016

                           91.2
                                                                82.3

                                                 66.2
         52.2
                                                                               cloud revenue, meur

                                                                               non-cloud revenue, meur




                   2015                                 2016




netsales by business operations, 2015-2016

                                                        70.4
                   62.3

       47.7                                  46.7                              network, meur

                             33.5                                31.5          p2p, meur

                                                                               professional services, meur




transactions in basware network 2012-2016, millions

                                                        108.1
                                            93.7
                                  78                                           q4
                    60
                                                                               q3
       34
                                                                               q2

                                                                               q1

      2012         2013      2014           2015        2016




                                        basware annual report 2016 – 4

strategy
growing cloud revenues is the number
one strategic priority
cloud revenue growth is basware’s primary objective and where long term
value in our business will be created. we have estimated that the market
potential for our services in north america and europe alone is eur
15 billion per year. as the market leader in networked purchase to pay,
basware is uniquely well positioned to capture this.




in october 2016, basware announced refinements to its strategy argets and additional actions to
improve execution, simplify our operations and boost future growth. these actions are targeted at:
•   continuing to strengthen sales and marketing to drive cloud revenue growth
•   focusing on customer success by further improving customer satisfaction and experience
•   continuing to grow and monetize the network and data assets with financing and other valu
    added services, focusing on product development and partnerships
•   increasing productivity by simplifying our operations and increasing scalability
•   evolving our culture and way of working to focus more on performance.



clear cloud-focused strategy and additional
actions to improve execution, simplify
operations & boost future growth




                        basware annual report 2016 – 5

for the strategy period from 2017 to 2020, basware will focus on three key metrics aimed at
boosting cloud revenues:
•   cloud revenues to increase by more than 20% cagr on an organic basis
•   annual net sales greater than eur 220 million
•   recurring revenue approximately 80% of net sales.

organic growth continues to be in the key focus. basware has identified the key markets where i
sees the greatest potential to grow its cloud based revenues as the us, uk and germany.




                       basware annual report 2016 – 6

ceo’s review
focus on cloud growth
i am very excited to have been given the opportunity to lead basware,
starting from september 2016 when i became ceo. we are very lucky
as baswareans to work in a company that is operating in a fast moving
market with significant growth potential.




cloud revenue growth is basware’s primary strategic objective and where the long term value in our
business will be created. during 2016 our key focus was to pursue this and we witnessed strong
outcomes: cloud revenues grew 26.9 percent and accounted for almost half of our total net sales at
the end of 2016. also, our saas growth was very strong in 2016, up 95 percent for the full year.



cloud revenue growth is basware’s
primary strategic objective

basware’s network continued to hit new highs in 2016, with november having 10.4 million
transactions, the highest monthly total yet. the full year volume was 108 million, representing
volume growth of 15 percent. we believe that we can grow our network even faster in the long run
and we have taken a series of measures to achieve this.

with more than 100 million transactions going through our network every year, basware has a
unique and valuable data asset. a core part of basware’s strategy is to expand new innovative value
added services that utilize the data in our network. in 2016 we were recognised by industry analysts
as having market leading capabilities in providing innovative analytics for our customers based on
this data. we also invested in maturing our financing services solutions, which use the e-invoice
and other information in our network to provide working capital solutions for customers.




                        basware annual report 2016 – 7

with the market leader recognition & clear cloud-focused
strategy, basware is well positioned to capture the
opportunities ahead of it

while our cloud businesses grew strongly in 2016, the growth was partially offset by our uk public
sector cloud business which declined driven by brexit and exchange rates. basware’s total net sales
were impacted by our business model transition with license and maintenance revenues declining in
every quarter and alliance fee income in the comparison period in 2015. as our fast growing cloud
revenues continue to become a larger proportion of basware’s total net sales, the impact of non-
cloud revenue types will be felt less strongly in future.

2016 was a year of investment for basware, focused on expanding our sales and marketing
capabilities. headcount in sales and marketing grew by 24 percent in 2016 and we appointed new
leaders to run these teams. we also continued to innovate and invest in our global market leading
networked purchase-to-pay solutions and services.

basware has identified the key markets where it sees the greate t potential to grow its cloud based
revenues as the us, uk and germany. in 2016 basware significantly expanded its us presenc
after acquiring verian, a leading cloud-based e-procurement solution provider. the integration has
proceeded well with the first cross-sell network deals already ade. the market potential in the uk
and germany remains strong, however sales from these markets in 2016 were impacted by brexit in
the uk and a competitive job market in germany holding back the pace of recruitment.



in november we launched a programme that will make basware more competitive and agile. i
would like to thank our shareholders for their support, our customers for their business and all of our
employees for their hard work in 2016. in recognition of our superior offering, basware continued
to be cited as a market leader by key industry analysts in 2016. with this recognition and our clear
cloud-focused strategy, i am confident that basware is well positioned to capture the opportunities
ahead of it and help our customers to realize tomorrow’s financial goals toda .




                        basware annual report 2016 – 8

corporate responsibility
100% paperless
as the largest open business network in the world, basware provides
scale and reach for organizations of all sizes, enabling them to grow
their business by simplifying and streamlining financial processes while
reducing their carbon footprint through paperless processes. e-invoicing is
easy, quick, secure and environmentally responsible.




basware’s corporate responsibility is integrated into basware’s business operations and the
company is committed to responsibility in all of its economic, social and environmental activities.
great emphasis is placed on open and transparent communication with stakeholders.

basware is listed on the nasdaq helsinki and the company is committed to following the rules
and regulations set by the authorities as well as the laws and regulations in each country where it
operates. basware’s code of conduct outlines a set of common principles for basware employees
and provides basware´s customers, other business partners and investors with information about the
principles according to which basware operates and expects its suppliers and partners to operate.

everyday sustainable work within the company is guided by a corporate responsibility framework
which is based on the company’s core values. the framework consists of four cornerstones:
sustainable business operations, quality and customer promise, networked society and multicultural
basware.

sustainable business operations improve financial processes
the world today is still relying on paper, and hundreds of billions of paper invoices are sent between
and within organizations, which is totally unnecessary. according to a 2016 report from billentis:
e-invoicing/e-billing, digitalization & automation, it is estimated that 370 billion invoices are sent
globally each year with businesses and government receiving about 170 billion invoices annually.
in addition, as there are many supporting documents accompanying invoices, such as purchase
orders and goods received, the amount of paper organizations receive and process is increased by
multiples.

the billions of paper invoices sent annually not only destroy trees but also create problems for
organizations by minimizing visibility, creating inefficiencies, and increasing costs. by reducing o
eliminating paper invoices and implementing other green practices, companies can minimize their

                        basware annual report 2016 – 9

carbon footprint, as well as improve their visibility and control over cash flo , spend and working
capital.

advanced and innovative industries, businesses and governments are concerned about their impact
on the environment and they are driving the sea change. a growing number of adopters in both
private and public sector are realizing the significant efficie y gains and cost savings available
through e-invoicing and simplified, paperless ways of doing bus ness.

helping our customers to achieve tomorrow’s financial goals today
basware strives for success in its customers’ financial operations and serves its customers as
trusted partner. we are committed to delivering high quality solutions and services and provide the
most efficient, e fective and sustainable solutions.

in addition to passing on innovation and creativity to customers through solutions and services,
basware also aims to promote their own values and be a responsible operator. we lead by example
in behavior as well as product and put the customer at the heart of everything we do.

digitalization and networked society
basware has been the driving force behind a rapidly growing business ecosystem designed to
connect international e-invoicing and e-ordering networks. the basware network is an open network
that allows all companies – buyers, suppliers and partners – to benefit from connected globa
commerce. today, the basware network connects with over 220 b2b networks globally, making it
the largest open network in the world.

organizations around the world improve their business relations with help of basware’s network.
creating digital market places increases speed, profitability a d accountability. working
collaboratively in this way also leads to innovation and creativity in commerce.

open communication is inherent to this type of global commerce network. an environment in which
there is more honesty and integrity between companies is altogether a better solution.

global basware
basware is a global network of professionals and committed to providing a respectful work
environment and equal opportunities for all. we have employees, partners, customers and investors
around the world, in over 100 countries.

basware’s network and solutions strengthen business relationships between organizations across
the world.



eliminating paper invoices help companies decrease their
carbon footprint, as well as improve visibility and control
over cash flow, spend and working capital.



stakeholder dialogue
continuous dialogue with stakeholders helps us understand expectations and enable us to develop
our operations further. in may 2016 basware invited all its internal and external stakeholders to take
part in an online brainstorm and share their views regarding basware’s corporate responsibility – we
received over 500 responses. we are very pleased about the active participation and all feedback
we received from our customers, business partners, investors and our own employees.

a materiality matrix was formed based on the stakeholder dialogue. some of the areas that were
highlighted as priorities include customer needs and communication, quality (solutions, projects and
services), being a trusted partner and employee satisfaction. feedback in this way means we continue to
stay focused on the areas that are truly important for our stakeholders. we keep communication channels
open with our community and welcome feedback and questions. you can also contact us via email:
everyactioncounts@basware.com.


                        basware annual report 2016 – 10

                           top right corner of the materiality matrix:




carbon conscious behavior
use of online meeting tools to reduce travelling
unnecessary business travelling is avoided by taking full advantage of online messaging, meeting
and collaboration tools. online tools enable basware’s global teams to work virtually across time
and geographical boundaries. in addition to internal use, these tools are used for meetings with
customers, partners and other external stakeholders.

basware’s primary online meeting and messaging tool has 1,600 daily users on average. employees
organize approx. 500 meetings a day and every organized meeting has 3-4 participants on average.
basware employees are also using a webinar tool to enable larger online events. in 2016, over 300
webinars were held with over 18,500 internal and external participants.

energy efficiency
basware and its customers, partners and personnel achieve more energy efficient busines
outcomes and are able to reduce their carbon footprint with the help of a digital, connected economy
and paperless offices. paperless and energy efficient ways of w king are followed in basware
offices globall .

basware’s program to move its services from private to public cloud allows the company to take
advantage of the latest energy-efficient technolog . cloud service providers can also drive higher
and more efficient utilization of energy resources as they host multiple customers on shared
infrastructure. this means that fewer servers are required which in turn results in less energy
consumed and fewer carbon emissions.

basware’s cloud services provider, amazon web services (aws), has a long-term commitment to
achieve 100% renewable energy usage globally.

more information about the transition to public cloud, please see solutions & services.

reporting the carbon footprint
basware annually reports its carbon footprint via cdp’s international climate change questionnaire
for listed companies. the company achieved a clear increase in the score in 2016 by disclosing
more comprehensive data regarding its carbon footprint. score ”c” obtained in 2016 is also the cdp
climate change program average score. basware will develop its data collection processes further to
ensure continuous improvement in the amount and quality of environmental data.

basware’s tax footprint
basware complies with the tax laws and regulations of its operating countries. in addition to paying
direct taxes on our earnings, the company also influences the e onomics of its operating countries
through social security payments and indirect taxes, such as value-added-tax and similar sales-

                       basware annual report 2016 – 11

related taxes, as well as payroll taxes and social security contributions that basware collects on
behalf of relevant authorities. all these payments, direct and indirect taxes, taxes withheld from
salaries and tax-like payments related to personnel contribute to the societies where basware
operates. in 2016, basware’s tax footprint totaled eur 67.3 million.




                                       taxes withheld from salaries 46 %

                                       indirect tax 28 %

                                       employer's charges 24 %

                                       direct tax 2 %




rolling out the code of conduct
basware launched a new company-wide e-learning program consisting of the basware’s code of
conduct and anti-bribery and corruption policy in 2016. the training program is compulsory for
all existing basware employees and it needs to be completed annually. new employees complete
it during the first month of employment. the program includes a test which needs to be passed by
everyone to show the content has been understood.

                                                              the art of basware
                                                              the art of basware, held for the 17th
                                                              consecutive year in 2016, is a visual arts
                                                              competition for young artists under 30 years
                                                              of age. the theme of the 2016 competition
                                                              was “lead the way”. the artists had full artistic
                                                              freedom to interpret the theme in their own
                                                              manner.

                                                              nearly 400 pieces of work, including paintings,
                                                              drawings, sculptures and video, were
                                                              submitted to the competition. for the first tim
                                                              the jury selected two winners: tiina-liisa
                                                              kaalamo and ville laurinkoski.

                                                              the winning artwork “terrarotta-armeija”
                                                              by tiina-liisa kaalamo is a mixed technic
                                                              sculpture consisting of 99 rat skulls and tails
                                                              handcrafted with wool, fur and metal. ville
                                                              laurinkoski’s “hermeneutiikkaa: europa” is a
                                                              large painting. both works were purchased to
                                                              basware’s art collection for the sum of 5,000
                                                              euros each.

                                                              baswareans and guests who visit the basware
                                                              offices can be inspired by the baswar
                                                              art collection, which today consists of 99
                                                              individual life stories – showing the passion of
                                                              the young artists.




                        basware annual report 2016 – 12

baswareans
gearing up for the future
in 2016, basware continued to gear up for the future, with its people taking
center stage. several actions were taken to support the strategic priority
to evolve the company culture and way of working to focus more on
performance and strengthen the customer-centric mindset. one key focus
area was the basware leadership model being refreshed to align and drive
the growth strategy whilst reinforcing our values.




gear up for the future
two years ago basware launched a new survey to measure the company culture, focusing on
basware’s capabilities and strengths both as a company and a work community. in late 2016,
a follow-up survey was conducted to evaluate how the identified key development areas had
developed. customer focus, capability development and core values were the focus of this survey.

employee engagement was demonstrated with the response rate which increased from 76% (2014)
to 86% enabling basware to obtain a true representation of the view of baswareans.

the results showed a significant improvement overall and accord ng to the feedback for customer
focus, an increased understanding of our customer requirements are evident with baswareans
also linking customer comments and recommendations to internal changes better than ever
before. without doubt the most improvement was seen in the area of capability development. all
questions answered in this category showed a higher score with a particular emphasis noted on
the increased investment level leading to capability levels improving and employees feeling more
empowered than before. the basware leadership style was also noted as improving and becoming a
core strength of the organization.

our core values – drive customer success, lead the way, strive for excellence, inspire and be
inspired – made good progress with employees feeling aligned with the refreshed values and
understanding the journey we have embarked upon to bring them to life. a lot of effort was invested
in aligning and embedding our core values into everything we do integrating to our core people
processes and awards.

basware linked the participation of this survey to the corporate responsibility agenda by planting a
tree for every successful participation in the survey, the results produced the following.

                        basware annual report 2016 – 13

1 survey answer = 1 tree planted
for every answer to the gear up for the future survey, basware
sponsored the partner charity earth day for a new tree to be
planted. baswareans helped plant 1,670 new trees!



strenghtening capability development
in 2016, basware strengthened its human resources function by forming a dedicated learning
& development team to ensure a stronger focus on professional development, performance and
culture. strategic capabilities of the personnel were defined a d aligned with the basware strategy.
a number of new learning solutions were launched with a focus on leadership and customer-facing
skills.

new leadership model to support values and strategy
in 2016, basware renewed its leadership model to align it with the renewed values and the growth
strategy. leaders bring the basware vision and values to life by executing the mission and strategy,
driving business performance and shaping the future.

two renewed training programs were introduced during the year: one to strengthen team leadership
skills and one for senior leaders to advance their business leadership skills. both training programs
will continue in 2017.

growing in the us
in april 2016 basware acquired verian, a leading cloud-based e-procurement solution provider in
the us and the company’s 75 employees became baswareans. the acquisition further strengthened
basware’s market position in the us and brought additional e-procurement capabilities to basware.
verian was founded in 1998 and is based in charlotte, metropolitan area in north carolina. verian
fits well with basware s strategy, cloud-focused business and culture.



the number of personnel in the us grew
from 45 to 145 during 2016

enhancing customer services
in november 2016, basware began planning for a new single delivery function, customer services,
that will manage post-sales customer-facing activities, combining basware’s professional services,
customer support and activation services globally. the new function was established on january 1,
2017.

this new setup improves internal processes while increasing local ownership and accountability for
all customer-facing services. the aim is to simplify the ways of working both internally and from the
customers’ point of view. this will enable basware to be more customer-centric, agile and deploy a
‘think global – act local’ service approach.

basware personnel in numbers
at the end of 2016, there were 1,889 employees in basware (+14.6%), of whom 74 percent worked
outside of finland and 26 percent in finland. 12.2 percent of the personnel work in sales and
marketing, 58.6 percent in professional services, production and customer care, 22.2 percent in
research and development, and 7.0 percent (7.1 %) in administration.

the average age was 35.5 years (35.7 years) and the average years in basware service was four.
female employees accounted for 27.1 percent (26.0) and male 72.9 percent (74.0) of the workforce.

salaries accounted for eur 77 million in 2016 (eur 67.3 million).



                        basware annual report 2016 – 14

2017 focus areas
in 2017, basware’s people strategy will continue to evolve strengthening the approach and offerings
throughout the organization: mobilizing the concept of centre of excellence for compensation and
benefits and global resourcing as well as increasing the produc ivity and efficiency of its peopl
agenda through better access of information and tools to our employees.

learning and development will continue to be key focus with the development of new tools to
support feedback and coaching. strengthening further our leadership capability where line
managers will receive further training with tools enabling them lead and manage their teams more
effectively. the aim is to further enhance basware’s feedback culture and support the strategic goal
of ensuring a high performance culture.

‘gear up for the future’ development programs will continue in 2017. new action plans will be
defined during the first quarter of the year and the progress o executing the plans will be followed-
up.




geographical division of personnel



                                                   finland, 492 persons

                                                   scandinavia, 125 persons

                                                   europe, 494 persons

                                                   india, 604 persons

                                                   americas, apac&russia, 174 persons




division by job functions




                                                   sales & marketing, 231 persons

                                                   professional services, production & customer
                                                   care, 1,106 persons

                                                   research & development, 419 persons

                                                   administration, 133 persons




                        basware annual report 2016 – 15

solution & services
innovation in the limelight
basware is the global leader in providing networked purchase-to-pay (p2p)
solutions and delivering the best financial supply chain experience.




with basware’s services, we help our customers simplify operations and spend smarter, enabling
them to:
•   connect with buyers and suppliers through the basware network: the largest open e-invoicing
    network in the world
•   manage spending through our industry-leading p2p solutions and services
•   optimize cash flows using our innovative value-added services

independent research firms have recognized basware s p2p solutions as global leaders several
times, highlighting their market leadership and best-in-class p2p capabilities, powered by the world’s
largest network and by expertise in analytics.



case: safe and efficient automated invoice processing
brings big benefits to f-secure. read more >>


boosting supplier collaboration with global marketplace
in november 2016, basware launched marketplace, a global catalog management tool on the
basware network. marketplace facilitates stronger buyer-supplier relationships by allowing private
and public sector organizations across the world to access negotiated supplier contracts, browse
available products and services with a consumer-like shopping experience, and place orders directly
with suppliers.


                       basware annual report 2016 – 16

a new culture of spend stewardship
in 2016, basware adopted the weprocurement™ methodology for e-procurement, which
fundamentally transforms company spending culture for its customers by changing employee
behavior. to reinforce desired spending behavior, weprocurement creates a collaborative process
that delivers relevance, intelligence and awareness within the e-procurement system. this
systematic approach enables everyone to work together towards company goals and saving money,
ultimately making employees better stewards of company funds.

easier pdf e-invoicing
basware has also introduced new capabilities for basware pdf e-invoice, enabling small and
large enterprises to speed up and simplify e-invoice processing. by connecting to the basware
network, automation is increased and supplier collaboration improved. the new functionality means
businesses of all sizes can now submit their invoices electronically with ease and even fewer
resources are required to integrate with existing billing systems.



case: bilderberg implements accounts payable automation with
e-invoicing to reduce costs & increase efficiency. read more >>


scalability through cloud hosting
in 2016, basware launched a program to move its services from private to the public cloud. the
transition enables basware to better invest in innovation, resulting in improved lead times for new
services and service updates, as well as improved service quality for customers. as the solutions are
used more during business hours, the new cloud technologies enable basware to better respond to
elastic capacity needs.

basware has selected amazon web services (aws) as its cloud services provider, and will move its
services to aws one by one. the transition of the existing customers started in 2016 and basware
aims to move a great majority of its saas customers to aws during 2017. new customers start using
aws automatically.

innovation in the limelight
robotic process automation (rpa) has been incorporated into p2p solutions for quite some time
to provide efficiencies and streamlined workfl . going forward, basware will take this to the next
level, adding more artificial intelligence (ai) and machine lea ning capabilities to our solutions and
services.

the consumer experience rules — business users have fully morphed into consumers, expecting
consumer-style usability, interfaces and applications. the millennial generation has fueled this
transformation in the workplace, leveraging the latest technology to get things done faster and more
efficientl . cloud-based and mobile technology, and easy-to-use dashboard analytics are enabling
finance and procurement professionals to get the information th y need at the tap of a finge ,
whenever and wherever they want it.

companies are also continuing to focus on corporate social responsibility (csr) and corporate
social consciousness as they consider their impact on social and environmental concerns. their
efforts to reduce waste and create a paperless business environment will increase interest in
paperless invoicing and other processes.




                        basware annual report 2016 – 17

basware’s solutions for

purchase-to-pay
implement purchase-to-pay so that finance and procurement can w rk hand in hand.

analytics for purchase-to-pay
gain immediate, vivid and actionable insight into your financia data.

accounts payable automation
remove paper and automate your invoice handling and payment processes.

receiving e-invoices
start receiving 100% e-invoices from your suppliers.

sending e-invoices
start sending 100% e-invoices to your customers.

e-procurement
manage your spend with people-friendly procurement solutions.

travel and expense
control your travel & employee expense processes.

financing services
optimize working capital and improve b2b relationships.




                       basware annual report 2016 – 18

basware corporation
corporate governance statement
basware corporation is a public limited liability company, registered in
finland and its head office is located in espoo, finland. basware group
(basware) is comprised of the parent company basware corporation, its
finnish and foreign subsidiaries. decision-making and governance at
basware comply with the company’s articles of association, the finnish
companies act, and other applicable legislation. in addition, the company
complies with the nasdaq helsinki ltd’s guidelines for insiders. the
subsidiaries comply with local legislation.




this corporate governance statement has been composed in accordance with chapter 7, section
7 of the finnish securities market act and corporate governance reporting section of the corporate
governance code. basware complies with the finnish corporate governance code 2015 published
by the securities market association (available at www.cgfinland.fi/en), with no deviations.

the corporate governance statement is issued separately from the report of board of directors.
both the report and the statement are included in this e-annual report.

description of company’s governance
the general meeting of shareholders, board of directors and ceo are in charge of the
management of basware corporation, and their tasks are determined as specified by the finnis
companies act. the ceo is in charge of group-level operational activity, assisted by the group’s
executive team.

annual general meeting
the annual general meeting is the highest decision-making body of the company. the annual
general meeting is arranged once a year on the date determined by the board of directors within six
months of the end of the financial period. extraordinary genera meetings can be arranged during
the year, if necessary.

in accordance with the articles of association, the annual general meeting is held in a place
determined by the board of directors, either in espoo, helsinki or vantaa. summons to general

                       basware annual report 2016 – 19

meeting of shareholders shall be announced on company’s website no earlier than three (3)
months and no later than three (3) weeks prior to the general meeting of shareholders, however, at
least nine (9) days prior to the record date of the general meeting of shareholders. in addition, the
company may, if so decided by the board of directors, within the same time announce the time and
place of the general meeting of shareholders as well as the address of the company’s website in
one newspaper. the annual general meeting deals and takes decisions on proposals to the annual
general meeting and other matters in accordance with the articles of association of the company,
which are available at company’s investors pages at www.basware.com/investors.

a shareholder is entitled to attend the meeting if he or she is listed as a shareholder in the
company’s shareholder register at euroclear finland ltd on the record date indicated in the notice
of the meeting and has confirmed his or her attendance in the m nner specified in the notice of th
meeting and by the deadline specified

in 2016, the annual general meeting was held in helsinki on march 15, 2016.

board of directors
in accordance with the articles of association, the basware board of directors has a minimum of four
and a maximum of eight regular members. the board members are elected by the annual general
meeting for one term of office at a time. the term of office begins at the end of the general meetin
that elected the board and expires at the end of the first annual general meeting of shareholders
following the election. the articles of association place no restrictions on the power of the general
meeting to elect members for the board of directors. the board of directors elects a chair and
a vice chair from among its members, and the board of directors is deemed to have a quorum
present when more than half of its members are present.

the board of directors of basware corporation is responsible for the company’s management and
the appropriate arrangement of its operations. the board supervises the company’s operations and
management and decides on significant matters concerning the co pany strategy, organization,
financing and investments. the duties and responsibilities of the board are defined primar ly by the
articles of association and the finnish companies act. the board annually ratifies rules of procedure
that specifies the meeting procedure of the board of directors nd its tasks. the rules of procedure
is published in its entirety on the company’s investors pages at www.basware.com/investors.

the board of directors assesses the independence of the board members and reports who are
independent of the company and who are independent of its significant shareholders. all current
members of board of directors are independent from the company and all members except david
bateman are independent from major shareholders.

the board diversity principles
the board of directors of basware has in its meeting of december 13, 2016, defined and approve
the diversity principles for the board of directors. the diversity principles can be found on the
company’s investors pages at www.basware.com/investors.

both genders shall be represented on the board of directors and the aim of the company shall be
to strive towards an appropriately balanced gender distribution. as the board has only late 2016
approved the diversity principles, it is premature to evaluate how the aims expressed in the diversity
principles, or actions to reach targets, have been furthered during 2016. the board of directors
will monitor the realization of its diversity principles and targets and will report its progress in the
company’s corporate governance statement for 2017.




                        basware annual report 2016 – 20

board of directors 31.12.2016




from back left: hannu vaajoensuu (chairman of board), ilkka sihvo (vice chairman of board), and
michael ingelög
from front left: david bateman, tuija soanjärvi, and anssi vanjoki


hannu vaajoensuu (b. 1961)                        ilkka sihvo (b. 1962)
•   chairman of the board of directors            •      vice chairman of the board of directors
•   msc in economics                              •      member of the audit committee
•   several board chairman/vice chairmanships     •      msc in economics and msc in technology
    or memberships                                       (engineering)
•   independent of the company and of its         •      ceo, solaforce oy, ceo softaforce oy
    significant shareholder
                                                  •      independent of the company and of its
•   own and controlled corporations’                     significant shareholder
    ownership: 575,857 shares
                                                  •      own and controlled corporations’
                                                         ownership: 885,300 shares



anssi vanjoki (b. 1956)                           david bateman (b. 1974)
•   member of the board of directors              •      member of the board of directors
•   msc in economics                              •      ba and ma in management studies from
                                                         cambridge university
•   chairman of the board of amer sports
    corporation, angel investor, chairman and     •      senior advisor, alternative finance,
    board member of several technology start-            arrowgrass and ceo, founder, captec
    up companies                                         systems ltd
•   independent of the company and of its         •      independent of the company and
    significant shareholder                              dependent of its significant shareholde
•   own and controlled corporations’              •      own and controlled corporations’
    ownership: 571 shares                                ownership: 0 shares




                       basware annual report 2016 – 21

michael ingelög (b. 1971)                              tuija soanjärvi (b. 1955)
•      member of the board of directors                •    member of the board of directors
•      member of the audit committee                   •    chairman of the audit committee
•      economics and business administration           •    msc in economics
       studies at uppsala university
                                                       •    several board memberships
•      entrepreneur and a private investor in to
                                                       •    independent of the company and of its
       financial technology and several board
                                                            significant shareholder
       memberships
                                                       •    own and controlled corporations’
•      independent of the company and of its
                                                            ownership: 1,444 shares
       significant shareholder
•      own and controlled corporations’
       ownership: 5,000 shares


more information on the members of the board of directors is available on the company’s investors’
pages at www.basware.com/investors.


meetings of the board in 2016
the board primarily meets on monthly basis, however during few months meeting is not scheduled.
additional meetings are held when necessary. in 2016 the current board of directors held 15
meetings.

attendance of board members at the meetings 2016
                                          attendance             meetings attended
    hannu vaajoensuu (chairman)           100%                   15/15
    ilkka sihvo (vice chairman)           100%                   15/15
    michael ingelög                       100%                   15/15
    tuija soanjärvi                       100%                   15/15
    anssi vanjoki                         93,33%                 14/15
    david bateman                         86,66%                 13/15


committees of the board of directors
the board of directors has established among its members the audit committee to assist the full
board in its work. considering the scope and nature of company’s operations, as well as board’s
working methods, it has not been deemed necessary to establish other committees. however, during
2016 a separate working group, consisting of selected board members, discussed and worked on
compensation matters.

audit committee
the audit committee assists the board in fulfilling its oversight respon ibilities for the financia
reporting process, the system of internal control, the audit process, and basware’s process for
monitoring compliance with laws and regulations. the audit committee works in accordance with
its charter confirmed by the board of directors, and the commit ee reports to the board on each
meeting. the charter is published in its entirety on the company’s investors pages at www.basware.
com/investors.

the audit committee consists of a minimum of two members of the board. the board elects the
members and chairman of the audit committee from among its members at the organizational
meeting for a term of one (1) year. in 2016, the audit committee has consisted of three members of
the board of directors: tuija soanjärvi was elected as the chairman and michael ingelög and ilkka
sihvo as the members of the committee.

the majority of members shall be independent of the company and at least one (1) member shall
be independent of significant shareholder. each member shall have the qualifications necessary to

                          basware annual report 2016 – 22

perform the responsibilities of the committee and at least one (1) member must have accounting,
book-keeping or auditing or related financial expertise

meetings of the audit committee in 2016
the audit committee meets at minimum 4 times during its term and additionally as necessary. in
2016 the audit committee has held 3 meetings and will hold one meeting still during its term in
january 2017.

attendance of audit committee members at the meetings 2016
                                        attendance               meetings attended
    tuija soanjärvi (chairman)          100%                     3/3
    michael ingelög                     100%                     3/3
    ilkka sihvo                         100%                     3/3


shareholders nomination committee
the annual general meeting, held on march 15, 2016, decided to establish a permanent
shareholders’ nomination board in accordance with the proposal of the board of directors. the
nomination board shall be responsible for preparing and presenting proposals covering the
remuneration and number of members of the company’s board of directors as well as proposal
on the members of the board of directors to annual general meeting and, where needed, to an
extraordinary general meeting. the nomination board shall also be responsible for identifying
successors for existing board members.

the nomination board consists of four (4) members, three of which are appointed by the company’s
three largest shareholders. the chairman of the company’s board of directors serves as the fourth
member.

the company’s largest shareholders entitled to appoint members to the nomination board shall be
determined annually on the basis of the registered holdings in the company’s shareholders’ register
held by euroclear finland ltd as of the first weekday in septem er in the year concerned. the
chairman of the company’s board of directors shall request each of the three largest shareholders
established on this basis to appoint one member to the nomination board. in the event that a
shareholder does not wish to exercise his/her or its right to appoint a member, it shall pass to the
next-largest shareholder that would not otherwise be entitled to appoint a member. in case two
shareholders have an equal number of shares and votes and the representatives of both such
shareholders cannot be appointed to the nomination board, the decision between them shall be
made by drawing lots.

the nomination board serves until further notice, unless the general meeting decides otherwise. its
members shall be elected annually and their term of office shal end when new members are elected
to replace them. the following members were nominated to the nomination board of the company
as of september 23, 2016:


mikko mursula (b. 1966)                              ilkka sihvo (b. 1962)
•      ilmarinen (major shareholder), chairman of    •      major shareholder of basware
       the nomination board
                                                     •      msc in economics and msc in technology
•      ilmarinen, mutual pension chief investment           (engineering)
       office
                                                     •      ceo, solaforce oy, ceo softaforce oy
•      m.sc. (econ.)

kirsi eräkangas (b. 1965)                            hannu vaajoensuu (b. 1961)
•      major shareholder of basware                  •      chairman of basware’s board of directors
•      several board chairman/vice chairmanships     •      several board chairman/vice chairmanships
       or memberships                                       or memberships
•      m.sc. (econ.) and emba                        •      msc in economics

                          basware annual report 2016 – 23

meetings of the shareholders nomination board in 2016
the shareholders nomination board held two meetings in 2016 and will have one (1) more meeting
during its term in 2017.

attendance of shareholders nomination board members at the meetings 2016
                                           attendance         meetings attended
    mikko mursula (chairman)               100%               2/2
    ilkka sihvo                            100%               2/2
    kirsi eräkangas                        100%               2/2
    hannu vaajoensuu                       100%               2/2


ceo and executive team
ceo
the board of directors appoints the ceo. the ceo is in charge of the management of the
company’s business operations and governance in accordance with the articles of association, the
finnish companies act and the instructions given by the board. pursuant to finnish companies
act, as his general duties, the ceo is responsible for arranging the executive management of the
company in accordance with the instructions and orders given by the board of directors. further,
according to the finnish companies act, the ceo is responsible for arranging that the accounts of
the company are in compliance with the law and that its financi l affairs have been arranged in a
reliable manner.

vesa tykkyläinen (b. 1960)
•      chief executive officer of baswar
•      bsc in telecommunications
•      own and controlled corporations’ ownership: 1,000 shares

esa tihilä acted as the ceo of the company until september 26, 2016. from september 26, 2016
onwards vesa tykkyläinen has acted as the ceo of the company.

more information on vesa tykkyläinen is available on the company’s investors pages at
www.basware.com/investors.


executive team
the executive team supports the ceo in managing the company’s business, but it does not have
any authority based on legislation or the articles of association. the executive team comprises of
the ceo (chairman) and persons appointed at the proposal of the ceo.




                         basware annual report 2016 – 24

ceo and executive team 31.12.2016




from back left: vesa tykkyläinen, lars madsen, matti rusi, niclas rosenlew, and
ad van der poel
from front left: jane broberg, paul taylor, tehseen dahya, and ilari nurmi


vesa tykkyläinen (b. 1960)                         jane broberg (b.1966)
•   chief executive officer of baswar              •      senior vice president, human resources
•   bsc in telecommunications                      •      business studies
•   own and controlled corporations’               •      own and controlled corporations’
    ownership: 1,000 shares                               ownership: 337 shares


tehseen dahya (b. 1966)                            lars madsen (b. 1974)
•   senior vice president, north america           •      chief marketing office
•   mba graduate                                   •      msc in business & quality management
•   own and controlled corporations’               •      own and controlled corporations’
    ownership: 53,116 shares                              ownership: 0 shares


ilari nurmi (b. 1975)                              niclas rosenlew (b. 1972)
•   senior vice president, purchase to pay         •      chief financial office
•   msc in engineering                             •      msc in finance
•   own and controlled corporations’               •      own and controlled corporations’
    ownership: 3,399 shares                               ownership: 3,020 shares


matti rusi (b. 1963)                               ad van der poel (b. 1971)
•   senior vice president, customer services       •      senior vice president, financing services
•   mba graduate                                   •      degree in international management
•   own and controlled corporations’               •      own and controlled corporations’
    ownership: 2,325 shares                               ownership: 0 shares




                        basware annual report 2016 – 25

paul taylor (s. 1957)
•   senior vice president, global sales
•   business studies
•   own and controlled corporations’
    ownership: 0 shares

all basware executive team members report to vesa tykkyläinen, ceo, basware corporation. more
information on the members of the executive team is available on the company’s investors’ pages at
www.basware.com/investors.




description of internal control
procedures and the main features of risk
management systems
overview of the risk management system
general principles of the risk management and the connection to internal control
risk management is an integral part of internal control. the group’s risk management is guided by
legal requirements, business requirements set by the shareholders as well as the expectations of the
customers, personnel and other important stakeholders. risk management refers to identification
assessment, measurement, monitoring and mitigating of risks that are fundamentally related to or
part of the business.

the aim of the risk management is to identify the risks relevant to the business operations and to
define the measures, responsibilities and time schedules requir d for effective risk management.
the risk management process is aligned with other governance and management processes and
the results achieved are used systematically as part of operative planning.

risk management is carried out and risks are reported in accordance with company’s risk
management policy and risk management process. the evaluations of risks reviews are performed
annually and risks and activities are being followed up on periodically in board and audit committee
meetings.

the steering and monitoring of business operations is based on the reporting and business planning
system covering the entire group. the ceo and cfo give both board and executive team
meetings presentations of the group’s situation and development in monthly reports.

overview of the internal control

main features of the company’s internal framework
the board is responsible for internal control and board’s audit committee is responsible for
monitoring the efficiency of the company´s internal control, in ernal audit, and risk management
systems. the board shall ensure that the company has determined operating principles for internal
control and that the company monitors the effectiveness of control procedures. moreover, it shall
ensure that planning, information and control systems used for risk management are sufficien
and support the business objectives. the ceo and the cfo are responsible for the practical
arrangement of control procedures.

the aim of internal control and risk management is to ensure that the company’s operations are
efficient and productive, that information is reliable and that regulations and operating principles are
followed throughout the group.

the group’s centralized finance function and group accounting as well as ontrolling function,
operating under the cfo, are responsible for the overall control system of financial reporting
harmonized methods of financial reporting are applied in all gr up companies, utilizing a uniform

                        basware annual report 2016 – 26

erp system and harmonized account scheme, and also software for electronic procurement
management, purchase invoices and travel expense reports and fi ancial management. the entire
group applies the international financial reporting standards (ifrs).

descriptions of the main features of the monitoring mechanisms for the company’s
operations and controls
monitoring refers to the process to assess basware’s internal control system and its performance in
the long term. basware also continuously monitors its operations through various assessments, such
as internal audits and external audits. basware’s management monitors internal control as part of
routine management work. the business management is responsible for ensuring that all operations
comply with applicable laws and regulations. the group’s financial and controller functions monito
compliance with the financial reporting processes and control. the financial and controller function
also monitor the correctness of external and internal financial reporting. the board of directors
assesses and ensures the appropriateness and effectiveness of basware’s internal control and risk
management.

description of the operating principles for internal control
the correctness and reliability of financial reporting are ensured through comp iance with the group
policies and guidelines. controls that ensure the correctness of financial reporting include control
related to accounting transactions, controls related to the selection of and compliance with the
accounting principles, information system controls and fraud controls. the high automation rate
of the group’s shared information systems and the systems’ integrated control points facilitate an
efficient internal control process with an audit trail for fina ial reporting. the group’s centralized
finance functions continuously develop global reliable, harmoni ed, scalable and efficient operatin
methods.

the result of business operations and attainment of annual goals is assessed monthly by executive
team and approximately monthly by board meetings. monthly management and board reporting
includes both actual and forecast data compared to the goals and actual results of previous periods.
financial reports generated for use by the business management monitor certain key indicators
associated with the business progress on a regular basis.

main features of the practical application of the company’s internal control
the internal control processes include internal guidelines, reporting, various technical systems and
procedures relating to operations. they help ensure that management directives are followed and
that activities are taken to achieve the group’s objectives. the daily tasks include management
reviews and audits and operational reviews and audits, carrying out checks that are suitable for each
function, country or business area.

the purpose of the management’s reporting is to produce aptly timed and essential information
for making decisions. the controlling function provides the guidelines on monthly reporting for the
entire organization and is in charge of special reporting instructions associated with forecasting.
the group’s financial administration internally distributes information o financial reporting-relate
processes and procedures on a regular basis and the personnel perform their internal control tasks
according to such information. when necessary, financial administration also arranges targete
training for the rest of the organization on the procedures associated with financial reporting an
changes in them.

the group’s investor relations function maintains the guidelines on the disclosure of financia
information in cooperation with financial administration and th legal department.



other information to be provided in the corporate governance statement

overview of the internal audit
internal audit assists the board of directors and audit committee in assessing and ensuring the
appropriateness and effectiveness of basware’s internal control and risk management. internal
audits are performed in the group’s functions and units. internal audits are performed annually
based on long term internal audit plan. the long term internal audit plan is approved by the board of
directors. management and board of directors review the observations and recommendations of the

                        basware annual report 2016 – 27

internal audits.

decision-making procedure for related party transactions
the company keeps a list of parties that are related to the company and assesses and monitors
related party transactions. the company evaluates and monitors transactions to be concluded
between the company and its related parties to ensure that any conflicts of interest are duly take
into account in the company’s decision-making. any related party transactions are only entered into,
when they are useful to the company on the whole and serve the interests of the company. decisions
on entering into related party transactions shall always be based on careful preparatory work. any
preparatory work, decision-making, and the evaluation and approval of individual transactions is
subject to disqualifying potentially conflicted persons from su h work. related party transactions are
appropriately identified and followed up by company s audit committee and reported in accordance
with the company’s reporting practices.

main procedures relating to insider administration
basware’s insider guidelines comply with the nasdaq helsinki guidelines for insiders. the insider
guidelines forbid insiders, including persons under their guardianship and companies where they
exercise control, to trade in financial instruments, such as sh res or option rights issued by the
company, for a period of 30 days prior to the publication of an interim report or a financial statement
bulletin (the so-called closed window).

on july 3, 2016 market abuse regulation (eu) no 596/2014 (mar) and related rules and
regulations have entered into force which has had an influence n basware’s insider administration
and insider registers as well as new obligations for insiders have been introduced. basware’s
managers and their closely associated persons referred to in the regulation have been requested to
notify their transactions as of july 3, 2016, please find more nformation on the company’s investors’
pages at www.basware.com/investors under section transactions by the management. basware’s
group general counsel is in charge of the guidance and supervision of insider issues. the insider
register of basware corporation is maintained by euroclear finland ltd.

audit
the audit shall be performed by an audit firm authorized by the auditor oversight board of the
finnish patent and registration office. the management makes a recommendation to the board,
who is responsible for making a formal proposal to the annual general meeting of for audit fir
to be selected. the audit firm selected has overall responsibility for co-ordin tion of audits for the
whole group (audit plans for each group company) and their cost, together with the cfo of basware
corporation. moreover, if required, a local authorized audit firm can be selected to carry out the audit
required by local legislation with a prior approval by the cfo.

the annual general meeting elects an auditor approved by the finnish central chamber of
commerce as the company’s auditor. in 2016, authorized public accountant firm ernst & young oy
was elected as the company’s auditor, and ernst & young oy declared terhi mäkinen, authorized
public accountant, as the principal auditor. the auditor’s term expires after the conclusion of the next
annual general meeting following the election.

in 2016, auditor was paid remuneration for audit services 246,889 euros and for non-audit services
329,330 euros.




                        basware annual report 2016 – 28

financial statements
board of directors’ report                         30
consolidated statement of comprehensive income     37
consolidated statement of financial position       38
consolidated statement of cash flows			            39
consolidated statement of changes in equity		      40
notes to the consolidated financial statements     41
parent company income statement			                 74
parent company balance sheet				                   75
parent company cash flow statement			              76
notes to the parent company financial statements   77
board’s dividend proposal					                     86
auditor’s report						                             87
key figures		                                      91
calculation of key indicators				                  94
share and shareholders					                        95
for shareholders		                                 97

board of directors' report
1.1.-31.12.2016
summary of the financial year

financial year 2016
  net sales eur 148 580 thousand (eur 143 410 thousand): growth 3.6 percent
  organic revenue growth 0.3 percent at constant currencies
  adjusted ebitda eur 2 063 thousand (eur 12 121 thousand)
  cloud revenue growth of 26.9 percent, amounting to 44.6 percent (36.4 %) of net sales
  recurring revenue 73.6 percent (67.8 %) of net sales
  operating result eur -13 946 thousand (eur 4 676 thousand)
  operating result included approximately eur 5 million of one-off employee related efficiency expenses
  earnings per share (diluted) eur -1.00 (0.22)
reporting has been prepared in accordance with international financial reporting standards (ifrs).

business operations
basware is the global leader in networked purchase-to-pay solutions, including e-invoicing and financing services. basware’s
commerce network connects businesses in over 100 countries and territories around the globe. as the largest open business
network in the world, basware provides scale and reach for organizations of all sizes, enabling them to grow their business
and unlock value across their operations by simplifying and streamlining financial processes. small and large companies
around the world achieve significant cost savings, more flexible payment terms, greater efficiencies and closer relationships
with their suppliers.

year 2016
in 2016 basware pursued its number one strategic priority of growing cloud revenues. cloud revenues grew 26.9 percent and
accounted for almost half of our total net sales at the end of 2016. saas growth was very strong in 2016, for the full year up
95 percent

basware’s network continued to hit new highs in 2016, with november having 10.4 million transactions, the highest monthly
total yet. the full year volume was 108 million. transaction volume growth for the full year was up 15 percent. basware
believes that it can grow our network even faster in the long run and it has taken a series of measures to achieve this,
including implementing a dedicated network only sales force.

with more than 100 million transactions going through our network every year, basware has a unique and valuable data
asset. a core part of basware’s strategy is to expand new innovative value added services that utilise the data in our
network. in 2016 basware were recognised by industry analysts as having market leading capabilities in providing innovative
analytics for its customers based on this data. basware also invested in maturing our financing services solutions, which use
the e-invoice and other information in basware’s network to provide working capital solutions for clients.

while basware cloud businesses grew strongly in 2016, the growth was partially offset by our uk public sector cloud
business which declined driven by brexit and exchange rates. basware’s total net sales were impacted by business model
transition with license and maintenance revenues declining and alliance fee income in the comparison period in 2015. as fast
growing cloud revenues continue to become a larger proportion of basware’s total net sales, the impact of non-cloud revenue
types will be felt less strongly in future.

2016 was a year of investment for basware, focused on expanding our sales and marketing capabilities. headcount in sales
and marketing grew by 24 percent in 2016 and we appointed new leaders to run these teams. basware also continued to
innovate and invest in its global market leading networked purchase-to-pay solutions and services.

basware has identified for the three key markets where it sees the greatest potential to grow its cloud based revenues as the
us, uk and germany. in 2016 basware significantly expanded its us presence after acquiring verian, a leading cloud-based
e-procurement solution provider. the market potential in the uk and germany remains strong, however sales from these
markets in 2016 were impacted by brexit in the uk and a competitive job market in germany holding back the pace of
recruitment.

basware is operating in a fast moving market with significant growth potential. basware has superior offering and it continued


                                               basware annual report 2016 – 30

to be cited as a market leader by key industry analysts in 2016. in november company launched a programme that will make
basware more competitive and agile. with clear cloud-focused strategy, basware is well positioned to capture the
opportunities ahead of it.

net sales
basware group’s net sales for 2016 amounted to eur 148 580 thousand (eur 143 410 thousand), a growth of 3.6 percent.
this equated to 0.3 percent organic growth at constant currencies. organic revenue growth is calculated by comparing net
sales between comparison periods in constant currencies excluding alliance fees as well as net sales from acquisitions that
have taken place in the past 12 months. net sales in constant currencies is calculated by eliminating the impact of changes in
currencies by calculating the net sales for the period by using the comparable period’s exchange rates.


net sales by revenue type
eur thousand
                                                                           1.1.-31.12.2016                   1.1.-31.12.2015
cloud revenue
saas                                                                               22,975                            11,811
transaction services                                                               35,996                            33,256
other cloud revenue                                                                 7,270                             7,150
cloud revenue total                                                                66,242                            52,217
non-cloud revenue
maintenance                                                                        40,761                            41,664
license sales                                                                       7,188                            10,921
consulting services                                                                34,389                            35,616
other non-cloud revenue                                                                 0                             2,992
non-cloud revenue total                                                            82,338                            91,193
group total                                                                       148,580                           143,410




cloud and recurring revenues grew strongly during both the fourth quarter and full year of 2016. cloud revenues in 2016
amounted to eur 66 242 thousand (eur 52 217 thousand), growing 26.9 percent compared to 2015, and accounting for
44.6% of net sales.

saas revenues grew significantly compared to year 2015 with total growth of 94.5 percent and organic growth of 46.3
percent. transaction volumes grew by 15.3 percent whilst transactions services revenues grew 8.2 percent. the difference
between transaction volume growth and transaction services revenue growth was driven by retroactive billing in the
comparison period.

total net sales growth was negatively impacted by the decline of non-cloud revenues, including license and maintenance
revenues. consulting services revenues were negatively impacted by a relatively high number of non-chargeable hours
and the transition of delivery model from license to saas. the decline of uk public sector cloud revenues, recorded as part
of other revenue, resulted in a negative impact on cloud revenues.

the international share of basware’s net sales was 66.9 percent (65.7 %) in the quarter.

additional information is available in the financial statements section, key figures.

financial performance
in 2016 basware’s adjusted ebitda amounted to eur 2 063 thousand (eur 12 121 thousand), and ebitda eur -5 394
thousand (eur 11 902 thousand). the operating result for the year amounted to eur -13 946 thousand (eur 4 676
thousand). operating result included approximately eur 5 million of one-off employee related efficiency expenses.

the company’s operating expenses including employee benefits, depreciations and amortizations as well as other
operating expenses were eur 146 783 thousand (eur 122 442 thousand) in the year, and have increased by 19.9
percent from the corresponding period the previous year. personnel expenses made up 71.3 percent (70.0 %) or eur 104
600 thousand (eur 85 726 thousand) of the operating expenses.
the company’s net finance expenses were eur -141 thousand (eur 510 thousand) for the year. basware’s share of the
results of the joint venture with arrowgrass capital partners llp totaled eur -2 170 thousand (eur -1 624 thousand).

basware’s result before tax was eur –16 256 thousand (eur 3 563 thousand) and result for the year was eur -14 318
thousand (eur 3 083 thousand). taxes impacted to the year result by eur 1 939 thousand (eur -481 thousand).
undiluted earnings per share were eur -1.00 (eur 0.22).


                                                basware annual report 2016 – 31

additional information is available in the financial statements section, key figures.

financing and investments
cash flows from operating activities were -1 774 eur thousand (eur 13 648 thousand) year-to-date. in the fourth quarter
basware signed new term loan financing totaling eur 25 million. the financing consists of two facilities, one with a final
maturity in 2021 and one with a final maturity in 2018. basware’s cash and cash equivalents including short-term deposits
totaled eur 35 755 thousand (eur 33 238 thousand) at the end of the year. the cash position increased compared to
2015 due to financing, offset by the cost of acquisitions and growth investments.

basware group’s total assets on the balance sheet at the end of the year were eur 227 043 thousand (eur 178 545
thousand). net cash flows from investments were eur -40 698 thousand (eur -4 716 thousand) year-to-date. these
investments included eur 25 013 thousand net cash consideration for the verian acquisition and eur 3 037 thousand to a
joint venture.

the equity ratio was 58.5 percent (79.1 %) and gearing 8.7 percent (-22.4 %). the company's interest-bearing liabilities
totaled eur 47 280 thousand (eur 1 667 thousand), of which current liabilities accounted for eur 10 548 (eur 1 667
thousand). the return on investment was -6.8 percent (3.6 %) and return on equity -10.5 percent (2.2 %).

gross investments including acquisitions and capitalized research and development costs totaled eur 51 882 thousand
(eur 39 971 thousand).

additional information is available in the financial statements section, key figures.

research and development
basware’s research and development expenses totaled 24 274 thousand (eur 20 748 thousand), or 16.3 percent (14.5 %)
of net sales. the research and development costs included in the result totaled eur 13 396 thousand (eur 11 994
thousand), or 9.0 percent (8.4 %) of net sales. research and development expenses capitalized amounted to eur 10 878
thousand (eur 8 754 thousand) during the year. research and development expenses have increased to support
basware’s growth strategy. a total of 419 (373) people worked in r&d at the end of year.

personnel
basware employed 1 811 (1 591) people on average during the year and 1 899 (1 648) people at the end of the year.


geographical division of personnel
                                                                 1.12.2016              1.12.2015                change, %
finland                                                               500                    479                            4.5
emeia (excluding india)                                               599                    514                           16.5
india                                                                 577                    522                           10.5
americas & apac                                                       135                     76                            78
personnel total                                                      1,811                 1,591                           13.8




at the end of the year, the international share of basware’s personnel was 74.0 percent (70.9 %). 12.2 percent (11.3 %) of
the personnel work in sales and marketing, 58.6 percent (58.9 %) in professional services, production and customer care,
22.2 percent (22.6 %) in research and development, and 7.0 percent (7.1 %) in administration. the increase in personnel
in americas and apac was partly due to the acquisition of verian.

the average age of employees is 35.5 (35.7) years. women account for 27.1 percent (26.0 %) of employees, men for 72.9
percent (74.0 %).

additional information is available in the financial statements section, key figures.

governance
the annual general meeting of basware corporation held on march 15, 2016 adopted the annual accounts for the
financial period ended on december 31, 2015. the members of the board of directors as well as the ceo were
discharged from liability for the financial period ended on december 31, 2015.

the annual general meeting resolved in accordance with the proposal of the board of directors that no dividend will be
paid for the year 2015.

the annual general meeting decided the number of members of the board of directors to be six. mr. hannu vaajoensuu,
mr. michael ingelög, mr. ilkka sihvo, mrs. tuija soanjärvi, mr. anssi vanjoki and mr. david bateman were elected as

                                                basware annual report 2016 – 32

members of the board of directors. in its first meeting held after the annual general meeting, the board of directors
elected hannu vaajoensuu as the chairman and ilkka sihvo as the vice chairman of the board.

ernst & young oy, authorized public accountants organisation, was elected as the company's auditor. ernst & young oy
has advised that it will appoint ms. terhi mäkinen, authorized public accountant, as the principally responsible auditor of
the company.

the annual general meeting decided to establish a permanent shareholders' nomination board in accordance with the
proposal of the board of directors. the nomination board shall be responsible for preparing and presenting proposals
covering the remuneration and number of members of the company's board of directors as well as proposal on the
members of the board of directors to annual general meeting and, where needed, to an extraordinary general meeting.
the nomination board shall also be responsible for identifying successors for existing board members.

 the nomination board shall consist of four (4) members, three of which shall be appointed by the company's three largest
shareholders, who shall appoint one member each. the chairman of the company's board of directors shall serve as the
fourth member. the company's largest shareholders entitled to appoint members to the nomination board shall be
determined annually on the basis of the registered holdings in the company's shareholders' register held by euroclear
finland ltd as of the first weekday in september in the year concerned. the annual general meeting further decided to
adopt the charter of the shareholders’ nomination board.

on september 23, 2016, mr. mikko mursula (chief investment officer, ilmarinen mutual pension insurance company), mr.
ilkka sihvo (vice chairman of the board of directors and ceo of solaforce and softaforce), mrs. kirsi eräkangas (several
board chairman or vice chairmanships or memberships and a major shareholder) and mr. hannu vaajoensuu (chairman of
basware’s board of directors and several other board chairman or vice chairmanships or memberships), were nominated
as members of the nomination board of the company. mr. mursula was elected as chairman of the nomination board.

tuija soanjärvi has been the chairman of the audit committee, michael ingelög and ilkka sihvo as members of the
committee.

esa tihilä acted as ceo from october 17, 2011 until september 26, 2016. vesa tykkyläinen commenced in his position as
the ceo of basware on september 26, 2016. the ceo is in charge of the management of the company's business
operations and governance in accordance with the articles of association, the finnish companies act and the instructions
given by the board.

the corporate governance statement is issued separately from the report of board of directors. basware corporation's
corporate governance statement is included in this e-annual report at www.basware.com/annualreport.

authorizing the board of directors to decide on the repurchase of the company's own shares
the annual general meeting decided to authorize the board of directors to decide on repurchase of company's own
shares in accordance with the proposal of the board of directors. by virtue of the authorization, the board of directors is
entitled to decide on repurchasing a maximum of 1,420,000 company's own shares. the company's own shares shall be
repurchased otherwise than in proportion to the holdings of the shareholders by using the non-restricted equity through
trading on regulated market organized by nasdaq helsinki ltd at the market price prevailing at the time of acquisition. the
shares shall be repurchased and paid for in accordance with the rules of nasdaq helsinki ltd and euroclear finland ltd.
the shares shall be repurchased for use as consideration in possible acquisitions or other arrangements related to the
company's business, as financing for investments or as part of the company's incentive program or to be held by the
company, to be conveyed by other means or to be cancelled. the board of directors shall decide on other terms and
conditions related to the repurchase of the company's own shares. the repurchase authorization shall be valid until june
30, 2017 and shall revoke the previous authorizations for repurchasing the company’s own shares.

authorizing the board of directors to decide on share issue as well as on the issuance of options and other
special rights entitling to shares
the annual general meeting decided to authorize the board of directors to decide on issuing new shares and/or
conveying the company's own shares held by the company and/or granting special rights entitling to shares pursuant to
chapter 10, section 1 of the finnish companies act in accordance with the proposal of the board of directors.

new shares may be issued and the company's own shares may be conveyed to the company's shareholders in proportion
to their current shareholdings in the company or by waiving the shareholder's pre-emption right, through a directed share
issue if the company has a weighty financial reason to do so, such as using the shares as consideration in possible
acquisitions or other arrangements related to the company's business, as financing for investments or as part of the
company's incentive program. the new shares may also be issued in a free share issue to the company itself.

new shares may be issued and the company's own shares held by the company may be conveyed either against payment
or for free. a directed share issue may be free only if there is an especially weighty financial reason both for the company
and with regard to the interests of all shareholders in the company.

                                               basware annual report 2016 – 33

based on the authorization, the board of directors may decide to issue a maximum of 2,840,000 new shares and convey a
maximum of 1,487,464 of the company's own shares held by the company. the number of shares to be issued to the
company itself together with the shares repurchased by the company on basis of the repurchase authorization shall be at
the maximum of 1,420,000 shares.

the board of directors may grant special rights referred to in chapter 10, section 1 of the finnish companies act, which
carry the right to receive, against payment, new shares of the company or the company's own shares held by the company.
the right may also be granted to the company's creditor in such a manner that the right is granted on a condition that the
creditor's receivable is used to set off the subscription price (convertible bond). the maximum number of new shares that
may be subscribed by virtue of the special rights granted by the company is in total 1,000,000 shares which number shall
be included in the maximum number of new shares stated above.

the subscription price of the new shares and the consideration payable for the company's own shares shall be recorded
under the invested non-restricted equity fund. the board of directors shall decide on all other terms and conditions related
to the authorizations. the authorizations shall be valid until june 30, 2017 and shall revoke the previous authorizations for
share issues and granting of stock options and other special rights entitling to shares.

acquisitions and changes in group's structure
in april 2016 basware acquired us based verian technologies llc ("verian"), a leading cloud-based e-procurement
solution provider in the us. the acquisition will further strengthen basware's market position in the us and is a strong fit
with basware's strategy to grow cloud business revenues in key markets. verian adds new talent and additional
e-procurement capabilities to basware. the acquisition will extend basware's network by offering our market leading
commerce network and financing services to verian's broad customer base.

the acquisition price was approximately usd 36.0 million (eur 31.6 million equivalent). part of the acquisition price was
paid in the form of shares of basware, and basware issued 180 707 new shares to the major owners of verian at a
subscription price of eur 39.09 per share. the subscription price for the new shares of basware was paid to basware by
contribution of membership interests of verian. the share issue resolution was made based on the share issue
authorization granted by the annual general meeting of shareholders of basware on march 15, 2016. the new shares of
basware were registered with the finnish trade register on april 4, 2016. the shares carry a right to dividend and other
shareholder rights as from their registration with the finnish trade register. after the registration the total number of
shares issued by basware is 14 401 936.

more information on all group companies, joint venture and branches is available in the financial statements section,
notes.

changes in basware’s executive team
tehseen dahya was appointed as senior vice president, north america and as a member of the executive team at
basware on november 2, 2016. before the appointment, he was basware's general manager for north america. prior to
basware, dahya was the co-founder and ceo of verian, a leading cloud-based e-procurement solution provider that
basware acquired in april 2016.

on november 2, 2016, riku roos stepped down from his position on the basware executive team as the head of
customer care, and executive team member, and senior vice president, professional services matti rusi took the
responsibility of the customer care function. the company also announced its plan to introduce a new single delivery
function, customer services, that will manage post-sales customer facing activities, combining basware's professional
services, customer support and activation services globally.

esa tihilä stepped down as ceo and was succeeded by vesa tykkyläinen, who commenced in his position as the ceo of
basware corporation on september 26, 2016. vesa tykkyläinen joined basware on january 25, 2016 as senior vice
president, network business area and member of the executive team.

paul taylor was appointed as senior vice president, global sales and as a member of the executive team at basware on
may 27, 2016 and he joined the company on june 1, 2016.

lars madsen was appointed as chief marketing officer and member of the executive team at basware on january 12,
2016 and he joined the company on february 1, 2016.

all basware executive team members report to vesa tykkyläinen, ceo, basware corporation.

responsibility
basware is the global leader in providing networked purchase-to-pay (p2p) solutions and delivering the best financial
supply chain experience. basware is the largest open business network in the world. it helps organizations to grow


                                                basware annual report 2016 – 34

business and simplify and streamline operations while reducing carbon footprint through paperless processes.

basware’s corporate responsibility is integrated into the company’s business operations and everyday sustainable work
within the company is guided by a corporate responsibility framework which is based on the company’s core values.
basware is committed to responsibility in all of its economic, social and environmental activities. great emphasis is placed
on open and transparent communication with stakeholders.

the company is committed to following the rules and regulations set by the authorities as well as the laws and regulations
in each country where it operates. basware’s code of conduct outlines a set of common principles for basware employees
and provides basware´s customers, other business partners and investors with information about the principles according
to which basware operates and expects its suppliers and partners to operate. more information about the company's
corporate responsibility is available at www.basware.com/annualreport and on the company's investors pages at
www.basware.com/investors.

share and shareholders
basware corporation’s share capital totaled eur 3 528 369 (3 528 369) at the end of the year and the number of shares
was 14 401 936 (14 221 229). basware corporation holds 58 622 (68 459) of its own shares, corresponding to
approximately 0.4 percent (0.5%) of the total number of shares.

basware had 12 620 (13 164) shareholders at the end of the year, including 10 nominee-registered holdings (12).
nominee-registered holdings accounted for 37.0 percent (30.3%) of the total number of shares.

the company’s annual general meeting of march 16, 2016, authorized the board of directors to decide on the repurchase
of the company's own shares and on share issue as well as on the issuance of options and other special rights entitling to
shares.

additional information on shareholdings of the executive team, board of directors and major shareholders is available on
the company’s investors pages at www.basware.com/investors and in the share and shareholders section in the financial
statements.

strategy
basware announced on october 19, 2016 refinements to its strategy targets and additional actions to improve execution
and boost future growth. for the strategy period from 2017 to 2020, basware will focus on three key metrics aimed at
boosting cloud revenues
  cloud revenues to increase by more than 20% cagr on an organic basis
  annual net sales greater than eur 220 million
  recurring revenue approximately 80% of net sales
more information about strategy is available on the company's investors pages at www.basware.com/investors.

short-term risks and uncertainty factors
basware has a growth strategy with high net sales growth expectations for the cloud business. executing the strategy for
2017-2020 requires significant investments in sales and marketing and related resources as well as continued investments
in product development. at the same time the industry transformation from an on-premise license-based business model to
a saas model will accelerate the decline of certain basware revenue streams, including license sales and maintenance.
the transformation will also make professional services revenues more volatile. until the transformation is complete, this
will act as a drag on group net sales growth.

basware’s net sales growth might fall below expectations if the company is not able to add qualified sales and marketing
resources according to its planned timetable. this applies especially to basware’s highest growth markets in the us, the
uk and germany. additionally, even higher than expected pace in the license to saas transformation would have a
negative impact on expected net sales in the short term. in addition to saas, basware expects high growth rates in its
network-based transaction services which will, besides successful sales effort, also require an improved onboarding
process. sales from basware’s third growth business area, financing services, are dependent on basware’s ability to
bring innovative and attractive products to the market according to its planned timetable and move customers quickly to a
phase where they are using the services extensively enough to provide meaningful revenue to basware.

the fact that close to 50 percent of the company’s sales are expected to come from non-euro countries exposes the
group’s net sales growth to foreign exchange rate movements. in case there is a significant depreciation of gbp, usd,
nok, sek or aud against the euro, reported net sales may be affected, despite good performance in local currencies. the
result of the referendum held in june 2016 to determine if the uk will remain in the eu has had an impact on the gbp to
eur exchange rate. in addition, there is a risk that the uncertainty caused by this event leads to uk public sector bodies
and uk private companies delaying decisions to implement p2p and network services.


                                               basware annual report 2016 – 35

execution of the growth strategy and going through constant change puts new demands on the organization as well as its
management and leadership capabilities. the company’s ability to attract, retain and develop the right type of talent to
deliver on its strategy is critical as well as management focus and ability to drive change.
basware considers acquisitions as part of its strategy. acquisitions entails risks, such as failure in integrating acquisitions
or in ensuring that the planned financial benefits and synergies of the acquisitions materialize.

basware’s biggest operational risks relate to service disruption as a result of for example data center failures, various data
security threats and non-compliance risks related to basware’s solutions and services, the company’s activities or its
employees’ behavior. operational risks are actively managed by continuous improvement in risk monitoring and protection
practices as well as internal training of basware’s personnel.

basware operates in a market where technological and business model innovation play a key role. while basware is
recognized as a leader within its segments by independent analysts, it is critical that basware continues to innovate and
develop its offering.

future outlook

operating environment and market outlook
companies of all sizes globally are under pressure to improve their cash flows, find new innovative payment strategies,
and automate their financial processes and functions. the company expects this to continue and the demand for services
to remain at a favorable level among its customers.

consolidation is expected to continue within the industry, also with the role of services as an industry standard growing in
companies’ portfolios. according to industry research, e-invoicing has become more common and the number of e-invoices
has grown substantially in europe and the rest of the world. public sector e-commerce initiatives, launched particularly
across the eu and the us, are expected to drive further adoption of e-invoicing. the growing e-invoicing market and
companies’ interest in other payment and financing added value solutions will offer excellent growth opportunities in future
years.

outlook 2017
basware’s number one strategic priority is cloud revenue growth during its strategy period 2017-2020 which it will achieve
by extending its leadership in networked purchase to pay, growing its network and expanding value added services. for
2017, basware expects its cloud revenues to grow by approximately 20 percent, and adjusted ebitda at breakeven.

board’s dividend proposal
at the end of 2016, the group parent company’s distributable funds are eur 88 758 thousand. the board of directors
proposes to the annual general meeting that no dividend be paid for 2016.




                                                 basware annual report 2016 – 36

consolidated statement of comprehensive
income (ifrs)
1.1.-31.12.2016
eur thousand
                                          notes           1.1.-31.12.2016     1.1.-31.12.2015   change, %
net sales                                     2                  148,580             143,410          3.6


other operating income                        5                        4                 104        -96.0
materials and services                        6                  -15,746             -16,396         -4.0
employee benefits expenses                    7                 -104,600             -85,726         22.0
depreciation and amortization             12.13                   -8,552              -7,226         18.4
other operating expenses                      8                  -33,631             -29,490         14.0
operating result                                                 -13,946               4,676


financial income                              9                    5,200               2,187        137.8
financial expenses                            9                   -5,341              -1,677        218.5
share of results of a joint venture         14                    -2,170              -1,623         33.7
result before tax                                                -16,256               3,563


income taxes                                10                     1,939                -481
result for the period                                            -14,318               3,083


other comprehensive income
other comprehensive income to be
reclassified to profit or loss in
subsequent periods:
remeasurement of defined benefit plan                                -94                   0
exchange differences on translating                               -1,463                -513        185.4
foreign operations
income tax relating to components of        10                       311                -278
other comprehensive income
other comprehensive income, net of                                -1,245                -791         57.4
tax
total comprehensive income                                       -15,563               2,292


result attributable to:
equity holders of the parent company                             -14,318               3,083
                                                                 -14,318               3,083
total comprehensive income attributable
to:
equity holders of the parent company                             -15,563               2,292
                                                                 -15,563               2,292


earnings per share
undiluted, eur                               11                     -1.00               0.22
diluted, eur                                 11                     -1.00               0.22




                                            basware annual report 2016 – 37

consolidated statement of financial position
(ifrs)
31.12.2016
eur thousand
                                             notes            31.12.2016    31.12.2015   change, %
assets


non-current assets
intangible assets                               11               47,325        36,309         30.3
goodwill                                        11                96,811       69,262         39.8
tangible assets                                 12                 1,585         1,445         9.7
share of investment in joint venture            13                 1,201          334        259.8
available-for-sale investments                  14                   38            38          -0.6
trade and other receivables                     16                 2,789         2,080        34.1
deferred tax assets                             18                 8,403         4,832        73.9
non-current assets                                              158,152       114,300         38.4


current assets
inventories                                     15                    0            30
trade receivables                               16               24,638        23,692          4.0
other receivables                               16                 8,372         5,789        44.6
income tax receivables                          10                  126          1,498        -91.6
cash and cash equivalents                       17               35,755        33,238          7.6
current assets                                                   68,891        64,246          7.2


total assets                                                    227,043       178,545         27.2




eur thousand
                                             notes            31.12.2016    31.12.2015   change, %
equity and liabilities


shareholder's equity
share capital                                   21                 3,528        3,528
share premium account                           21                 1,187        1,187
treasury shares                                 21                -1,043        -1,108         -5.9
invested unrestricted equity fund               21               111,333      104,334          6.7
other reserves                                  21                  540           540
translation differences                         21                -4,863        -3,712        31.0
retained earnings                                                22,182        36,378        -39.0
shareholders' equity                                            132,864       141,147          -5.9


non-current liabilities
deferred tax liabilities                        10                 4,904         4,545         7.9
interest-bearing liabilities                 20.22               36,732             0
other non-current financial liabilities         22                 1,555          730        112.9
liabilities from defined benefit plan           19                  506             0
non-current liabilities                                          43,697          5,276       728.2


current liabilities
interest-bearing liabilities                 20.22               10,548          1,667       532.8
trade payables and other liabilities            22               34,225        29,470         16.1
income tax liabilities                          10                  637           986        -35.4
current provisions                              23                 5,072            0
current liabilities                                              50,482        32,123         57.2


total equity and liabilities                                    227,043       178,545         27.2

                                          basware annual report 2016 – 38

consolidated statement of cash flows (ifrs)
1.1.-31.12.2016
eur thousand
                                                                                         1.1.-31.12.2016   1.1.-31.12.2015
cash flow from operating activities


result for the period                                                                           -14,318             3,083


adjustments for result
depreciation and amortization                                                                     8,552             7,226
share of results of a joint venture                                                               2,170             1,623
proceeds from sale of non-current assets                                                            -23                 4
unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses                                                       -318              -771
finance income and expenses                                                                         476                16
income taxes                                                                                     -1,939               481
other non-cash items                                                                                535               526
other adjustments                                                                                    74                 0


working capital changes
change in inventories                                                                                30                13
change in trade and other receivables                                                                35            -3,505
change in trade and other payables                                                               -1,867             4,444
change in provisions                                                                              5,071                 0


interest paid                                                                                      -165              -131
interest received                                                                                   125                83
other financial items in operating activities                                                      -447                14
income taxes paid/received                                                                          234               543
net cash from operating activities                                                               -1,774            13,648


cash flow from investing activities


purchase of tangible and intangible assets                                                      -12,660           -12,391
proceeds from sale of tangible and intangible assets                                                 11                 0
acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses                                                      -25,013           -20,248
investment made to a joint venture                                                               -3,037            -1,957
repayment of loan receivables and short term deposits                                                 0            29,881
cash flows used in investing activities                                                         -40,698            -4,716


cash flow from financing activities


proceeds from current borrowings                                                                 10,548            12,500
repayment of current borrowings                                                                  -1,667           -14,167
proceeds from non-current borrowings                                                             36,732                 0
repayments of non-current borrowings                                                                  0            -1,667
dividends paid                                                                                        0            -1,415
cash flows from financing activities                                                             45,613            -4,748


net change in cash and cash equivalents                                                           3,141             4,184


cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of period                                             33,238            28,954
net foreign exchange difference                                                                    -624               100
cash and cash equivalents at the end of period                                                   35,755            33,238




                                                       basware annual report 2016 – 39

consolidated statement of changes in
equity (ifrs)
1.1.-31.12.2016
eur thousand
                   share       share    treasury        invested        other   translation    retained     total
                  capital   premium       shares     unrestricted    reserves   differences    earnings
                             account                      equity
share               3,528       1,187      -1,108         104,334         540         -3,712      36,378   141,147
holders'
equity 1.1.2016
comprehensive                                                                         -1,151     -14,317   -15,468
income
dividend                                                                                                        0
distribution
share based                                   65               -65                                  535       535
payments
share issue                                                  7,065                                           7,065

adjustment to                                                                                       -320      -320
previous years
define benefit                                                                                       -94       -94
plans
share               3 528       1 187      -1 043          111 333        540         -4 863      22 182   132 864
holders'
equity
31.12.2016




eur thousand
                   share       share    treasury        invested        other   translation    retained     total
                  capital   premium       shares     unrestricted    reserves   differences    earnings
                             account                      equity
share               3,528       1,187      -1,156         104,381         540         -2,921      34,184   139,745
holders'
equity 1.1.2015
comprehensive                                                                          -791        3,083     2,292
income
dividend                                                                                          -1,415    -1,415
distribution
share based                                   48               -48                                  526       526
payments
share               3,528       1,187      -1,108         104,334         540         -3,712      36,378   141,147
holders'
equity
31.12.2015




                                        basware annual report 2016 – 40

notes to the consolidated financial statements
(ifrs)
basware is a leading supplier of e-invoicing and purchase-to-pay solutions. basware corporation is a public finnish company
founded under finnish law. the company’s domicile is espoo, finland. the shares of the parent company basware
corporation have been listed on nasdaq helsinki ltd. since 2000. the consolidated financial statements for the year ended
31 december 2016 were authorized for issue in accordance with a resolution of the board of directors on february 2, 2016.
shareholders may adopt or reject the financial statements at the annual general meeting.

basware’s financial statements, board of directors’ report as well as the auditor’s report are available on the internet
at www.basware.com/investors.

1. accounting principles

basis of preparation
basware corporation’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared according to the international financial
reporting standards (ifrs), approved for use in eu countries, in accordance with the ias and ifrs standards, as well as
ias and ifric interpretations valid on december 31, 2016. the group’s financial statements are presented in euros, which
is the primary and reporting currency of the group's parent company, and they are based on acquisition costs unless
otherwise stated in the accounting principles. the amounts presented in the financial statements are rounded, so the sum of
individual figures may differ from the sum reported

new and revised standards and interpretations
as of january 1, 2016, the group has applied the following new and revised standards and interpretations.

  amendment to ias 1: disclosure initiative. with the amendment, the group presents the notes in order of materiality from
  the group's point of view.
the following amended standards and interpretations have not had an impact on the consolidated financial statements:

  annual improvements to ifrss 2012-2014
  amendment to ifrs 11 joint arrangements.the amendment to the standard requires that for the acquisition of an interest
  in a joint operation, in which the activity constitutes a business, the principles for business combinations accounting are
  applied.
  amendment to ias 16 and ias 38 clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortization. the amendment
  prohibits the use of a revenue-based method of depreciation for tangible assets andallows the application for intangible
  assets to a limited extent.

amendments that will enter into force at a later time
the group will adopt the following standards and amendments to standards published by the iasb during financial periods
beginning later than january 1, 2017. the group will adopt each standards on the effective date, or if the effective date is not
the first day of a reporting period, as of the beginning of the following reporting period, provided that they are approved by the
eu.

  ifrs 16 leases (estimated effective date january 1, 2019). ifrs 16 specifies the requirements for recognition,
  measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases. the standard provides a single lessee accounting model. ifrs 16’s
  approach to lessor accounting is substantially unchanged from the current standards. as a general rule, all leases with a
  term of over 12 months are recognized in the balance sheet unless the underlying asset has a low value. according to the
  group's current estimate, the amendments will have an impact on the group's future financial statements, and it is
  continuing its assessment of the impact of the amendments. the eu has not yet approved the standard.
  amendment: ifrs 2 share-based payment (estimated effective date january 1, 2018). the amendment concerns
  incentive schemes with "net settlement features" to cover withholding tax obligations and where the employer has an
  obligation to withhold a tax from the received benefit of the share-based payment in the country in question. the current
  ifrs 2 requires the entity to divide the payment into an equity-settled component and a cash-settled component. in the
  future, a compensation cost pursuant to ifrs 2 will be recognized for such payments, based on the entire scheme being
  an equity-settled payment. the compensation cost is thus recognized based on the number of gross shares awarded in
  spite of the employee ultimately only receiving the net shares and the company paying the portion required for meeting the
  withholding obligations in cash to the tax authority. the withholding paid by the company to the tax authority is recognized
  directly in equity. the eu has not yet approved the amendments. according to the group's current estimate, the
  amendments will have an impact on the group's future financial statements, and it is continuing its assessment of the
  impact of the amendments..



                                                basware annual report 2016 – 41

  ifrs 15 revenue from contracts with customers (effective date january 1, 2018). the standard provides a five-step
  revenue recognition model. revenue is recognized when control of the good or service sold is transferred to the customer.
  the recognition model includes clearly more detailed instructions than the currently valid standards ias 11 construction
  contracts and ias 18 revenue, which ifrs 15 will replace. the new recognition model emphasizes identifying the
  performance obligations in customer contracts and the allocation of the transaction price to the identified performance
  obligations. in addition, the requirements for notes are significantly expanded.

the group's estimate of the adoption of ifrs 15:
an entity must apply either retrospective application or a modified approach for the financial period beginning on january 1,
2018. the group's preliminary plan is to use retrospective application. the group made a preliminary analysis of the impacts
of ifrs 15 during 2016. the impacts were assessed in joint meetings reviewing customer contracts in relation to the ifrs 15
revenue recognition model. the understanding of the impacts will be detailed further based on extended analyses and
discussions with the management of the group's business areas. the group will also take into account the further
specifications published by the iasb in april 2016 and continue to monitor the development of ifrs 15 in 2017.

current revenue recognition principles of the group:

the group's revenue streams are comprised of diverse transaction and monthly fees of e-invoicing solutions, license,
consulting and service fees of purchase-to-pay software solutions and services, and alliance fees of value added services
relating to financing services. the group also provides customer support services to its customers.

the group has assessed the customer contracts based on the above revenue streams. based on the current revenue
recognition principles, transaction revenue is recognized on the basis of actual transaction volumes and usage charges on a
monthly basis during the contract period. start-up fees are recognized as revenue when the work related to the start-up
procedure has been completed and the customer has been connected to the service environment.

license income relating to software deliveries are recognized when there is a binding contract, proceeds from the contract
can be reliably specified, the financial gain will benefit the company with sufficient probability, and significant benefits and
risks related to ownership or rights of use of the product have been transferred to the buyer upon delivery. maintenance
revenue is allocated over the contract period.

service revenue is recognized at the time of delivery. alliance fees from financing-related value added services are
recognized as revenue when the related obligations have been performed. revenue and costs of fixed-price consulting
projects are recognized as revenue and expense on the basis of the percentage of completion when the outcome of the
project can be reliably estimated.

basware has identified the revenue streams with a significant risk of change when ifrs 15 is adopted and their revenue
recognition principles based on the preliminary analysis of contracts.

the group will take into account the following matters in preparing for the adoption of ifrs 15:

with regards to the sales of services, identifying the performance obligation in the application of ifrs 15 requires that the
goods or services specified in the customer contract must be assessed at the time of concluding the contract, and they must
be identified as performance obligations. each performance obligation is based on a promise to transfer to the customer
either: (a) a good or service (or a bundle of goods or services) that is distinct, or (b) a series of distinct goods or services that
are substantially the same and that have the same pattern of transfer to the customer.

with regards to services and bundles of services transferred to customers, the group takes into account that based on the
preliminary analysis, some of the performance obligations currently considered distinct may form an entity recognized
together with another performance obligation. no other significant impacts are expected to arise from the application of ifrs
15 in terms of revenues already recognized over the contract period or based on service use. in these cases, the customer
simultaneously receives and consumes the benefit from the entity's obligation as the entity performs. the group expects that
a service is recognized over the contract period in the case of a fixed-term consulting contract, but it will continue the analysis
of the terms and conditions of consulting service in general.

the application of ifrs 15 also specifies the recognition of variable consideration in more detail. the standard requires
estimating the probability of variable consideration already at the time of concluding the contract. the group will continue to
analyze the timing of recognition of variable consideration from contracts.

the adoption of ifrs 15 is not expected to result in significant changes in the timing of recognizing license revenues. the
software licenses provided by the group are technically off-the-shelf solutions.

basware will continue the analysis of customer contracts in 2017, focusing on contracts in which the most significant risks of
changes relating to the adoption of ifrs 15 were identified, to be able to quantify the impacts on the financial statements.
during 2017, the group will also plan and implement the process for collecting the new disclosures required by the standard


                                                  basware annual report 2016 – 42

for the 2017 financial statements.

with regards to the following standards, amendments to standards and their interpretations, the changes will not have a
significant impact on the group's future financial statements according to the group's current estimate, and it will continue its
assessment of the impact of the changes.

  ifrs 9 financial instruments (effective date january 1, 2018). ifrs 9 will completely replace the existing ias 39 financial
  instruments: recognition and measurement standard. in accordance with the ifrs 9 section on classification and
  measurement, financial assets are classified and measured based on the entity's business model and contractual cash
  flows of financial assets. the classification and measurement of financial liabilities primarily complies with the principles of
  the current ias 39 standard. the hedge accounting model provides more opportunities for the application of hedge
  accounting, thereby allows entities to reflect their risk management practices in more detail in financial statements. the
  hedge effectiveness testing rules were revised, and the new principles are based on financial dependence. the impairment
  model pursuant to ias 39 was based on credit losses incurred, while the new impairment model takes into account
  expected credit losses. entities recognize the expected credit losses and changes in them in each reporting period so that
  changes in the credit risk after initial recognition are taken into consideration. the standard will provide new disclosure
  requirements concerning the entity's risk management practices. the group estimates that the changes will not have a
  significant impact on the group's future financial statements, and it will continue to assess the impacts in 2017.
  amendment to ias 12 income taxes. recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealized losses (estimated effective date
  january 1, 2017). the amendments concern the recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealized losses relating to
  changes in the fair value of available-for-sale debt instruments. the eu has not yet approved the amendments.
  amendment to ias 7 disclosure initiative (estimated effective date january 1, 2017). the amendment concerns disclosures
  in the entity's cash flows from financing activities concerning both cash and non-cash changes (such as exchange gains
  and losses). the eu has not yet approved the amendments.
  annual improvements to ifrss 2012–2014 (estimated effective date january 1, 2018). minor, non-urgent amendments to
  standards are collected and adopted in the annual improvement procedure once a year. the effects of the changes vary by
  standard. the eu has not yet approved the amendments.
  interpretation: ifric 22 foreign currency transactions and advance consideration (estimated effective date january 1,
  2018). the interpretation clarifies the exchange rate to be used in receipt or in payment of advance consideration and in
  recognising equivalent non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability arising from the receipt or payment of advance
  consideration. the non-monetary asset or liability is valued by using the exchange rate when the non-monetary balance
  sheet item is recognized. the eu has not yet approved the amendments

basis of consolidation
the consolidated financial statements comprise the parent company basware corporation and the subsidiaries controlled by
it at the end of reporting period. control is achieved when the group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its
involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. being in control
means the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the company to obtain benefits from its activities. the
subsidiaries have been included in the group financial statements as of the acquisition date. intra-group holding is eliminated
using the acquisition cost method. acquired companies are accounted for using the purchase method according to which the
assets and liabilities of the acquired company are measured at their fair value when it has been possible to determine the
value reliably. deferred taxes of the acquisition cost adjustments are recognized according to the valid tax rate and the
remainder is recognized as goodwill on the balance sheet. when circumstances indicate that there are changes in elements
of control the consolidation is re-assessed.

intra-group business transactions, internal liabilities and receivables, and internal profit distribution are eliminated in the
group financial statements.

basware has a 50 percent interest in a joint venture which was established with arrowgrass capital partners llp in the uk.
basware has determined its interest in the joint venture to be accounted for using the equity method. basware’s share of
results of the joint venture is presented as a separate line item in the financial items of the consolidated statement of
comprehensive income and in investments in the consolidated statement of financial position

the group does not have interests in other joint ventures or associates.

transactions in foreign currencies
transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the operating currency at the approximate exchange rates prevailing at the
transaction dates. monetary items in foreign currencies have been translated into the operating currency using the exchange
rates at the end of the reporting period. non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are carried at the exchange
rate at the date of the transaction.

in the group financial statements, the income statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated into euros at the average rate


                                                  basware annual report 2016 – 43

for the financial period and balance sheets at the exchange rate of the balance sheet date. average rate difference due to
different exchange rates on the statement of comprehensive income and balance sheet are entered in other comprehensive
income. translation differences arising from the elimination of foreign subsidiaries and translation of equity items
accumulated after the acquisition are entered in other comprehensive income. foreign currency gains and losses from
monetary items part of the net investment in a foreign unit are recognized in other comprehensive income and entered on the
statement of comprehensive income when the net investment is abandoned.

net sales
net sales are presented net of discounts and exchange rate differences of foreign currency sales.

revenue recognition
revenue is recognized to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the group when there is a
binding agreement of the sale, the revenue can be reliably measured, and significant benefits and risks related to ownership
or rights of use of the product have been transferred to the buyer on delivery on the product or service is rendered.

service revenue is recognized at the time of delivery. start-up fees are recognized as revenue when the work related to the
start-up procedure has been completed and the customer has been connected to the service environment. transaction
revenue is recognized on the basis of actual transaction volumes and service charges on a monthly basis over the term of the
contract. the alliance fees of financing-related added value services are recognized as revenue when the related obligations
have been performed.

revenue from the license sales is recognized when the above mentioned criteria has been fulfilled. license agreements with
a right of return or conditions related to the product's functionality or implementation project are recognized as revenue once
the right of return has expired or the above-mentioned conditions have been fulfilled. maintenance revenue is allocated over
the contract period.

revenue and costs of fixed-price consulting projects are recognized as revenue and expenditure on the basis of the
percentage of completion when the outcome of the project can be reliably estimated. the percentage of completion of the
project is specified as the proportion of hours worked of the estimated total number of hours. if the resulting costs and
recognized profits exceed the amount invoiced for the transaction, the different is presented in “trade and other receivables”
on the balance sheet. if the resulting costs and recognized profits are lower the invoicing for the transaction, the difference is
presented in “trade payables and other liabilities” on the balance sheet. when it is likely that the total costs required for
completing the project exceed the total revenue from the transaction, the expected loss is recognized as an expense
immediately.

other operating income
other operating income includes proceeds from the sale of business operations and property, plant and equipment, rental
income, and government grants to the extent that they are not related to capitalized r&d projects.

government grants
government grants are recognized when there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received. when the grant
relates to an expense item, it is recognized as other operating income for the periods that the related costs, for which it is
intended to compensate, are expensed. when the grant relates to capitalized r&d projects it will reduce the carrying amount
of the asset, and they are recognized in profit and loss by way of lower depreciation charge over the useful life of the
intangible asset.

research and development costs
research expenses are booked as an expense as they are incurred. development expenditures on an individual project are
recognized as an intangible asset when the group can demonstrate:

  the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that the asset will be available for use or sale
  its intention to complete and its ability and intention to use or sell the asset
  how the asset will generate future economic benefits
  the availability of resources to complete the asset
  the ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development.
costs related to the adoption of new technology or development of a new generation of products are capitalized and
recognized and amortized over the useful life of 3–5 years. in determining the useful life, the obsolescence of technology and
the typical life cycle of products in the industry are taken into consideration. amortization begins when development is
complete, the asset is available for use and the product is ready for commercial utilization. maintenance of existing products
and minor enhancements are expensed when they are incurred. government grants related to research and development are
recognized through profit or loss in the periods during which the corresponding costs are recognized as expenses.



                                                  basware annual report 2016 – 44

operating profit
operating profit is the net sum of operating income added to net sales, less cost of sales consisting of materials and services,
less the costs resulting from employee benefits, depreciation and amortization as well as other operating expenses and any
impairment. exchange rate differences and gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are included
in operating profit, provided that they result from items related to business operations; otherwise they are recognized under
financing items. all other items of the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are presented after operating profit.

goodwill
goodwill is measured as the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the group's share of the fair values of the acquiree's
net assets at the time of the acquisition. after initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated
impairment losses.

other intangible assets
other intangible assets are measured at cost less accumulated amortization and possible impairment. government grants
related to the acquisition of an intangible asset are deducted from the acquisition cost of the asset and recognized as income
by reducing the depreciation charge of the asset they are related to. amortization is calculated on a straight-line basis over
the estimated useful lives of the assets. the estimated useful lives of intangible assets are 3–10 years. each financial year
end useful lives are reviewed and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.

customer relationships and technology acquired in business combinations are measured at fair value at the time of
acquisition and depreciated over the useful life.

tangible assets
tangible assets are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and possible impairment. the useful lives of tangible
assets are 3–10 years. the useful life of an asset is reviewed at least at the end of each financial year and adjusted, if
appropriate.

sales gains and losses on disposal or transfer of tangible assets are presented in other operating income and expenses.

impairment of tangible and intangible assets
intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually, and when
circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. impairment is determined for goodwill by assessing the
recoverable amount of each cash generating unit (cgu) to which the goodwill relates. when the recoverable amount of the
cgu is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised. an asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of
cgu’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. in assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of
money and the entity specific risks. impairment losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in future periods.

borrowing costs
the company recognizes borrowing costs as an expense in the period during which they are incurred. if the borrowing costs
are due to an asset whose completion for the intended purpose or sale necessarily requires a considerably long time, the
borrowing costs are capitalized as part of the acquisition cost of the asset.

leases
leases on property, plant and equipment are classified as finance leases if they transfer substantially the risks and rewards
incidental to ownership to the group. finance leases are capitalized at the beginning of the lease as assets and liabilities at
the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments. a leased asset is
depreciated over the useful life of the asset. lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the
lease liability to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. finance lease liability is presented
in current and non-current interest-bearing financial liabilities.

an operating lease is a lease other than a finance lease. operating lease payments are recognised as an operating expense
in the statement of profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

contract costs
the incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer including significant sales commissions related to long-term
service contracts are capitalized if the recognition criteria are satisfied and the entity expects to recover those costs. the
capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the contract term in which the services are transferred and the
revenue is recognized.

financial assets
the financial assets are categorized as follows:

  financial assets at fair value through profit or loss


                                                  basware annual report 2016 – 45

  held-to-maturity investments
  loans and other receivables
  available-for-sale financial assets
the categorization is based on the purpose of the acquisition of the financial assets, and it is performed in connection with
the original acquisition. financial assets are classified as non-current assets if they mature in more than 12 months. if they
are to be held for less than 12 months, they are disclosed as current assets. financial assets measured at fair value through
profit or loss are classified as current assets.

transaction costs are included in the acquisition cost of the financial assets, when the item in question is not recognized at
fair value through profit or loss. all purchases and sales of financial assets are recognized at the transaction date, which is
the date on which the group commits to purchase or sell the financial instruments.

a financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired the group has transferred
substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset.

financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
a financial asset is grouped into the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category if it is acquired as held for
trading, or it is designated as at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition. derivatives that are not eligible for
hedge accounting are classified as held for trading. the assets are valued at fair value at the balance sheet date, and the
change in value is recognized under finance income on the income statement.

held-to-maturity investments
held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity that
the group has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity. they are measured at amortized cost using the effective rate
method.

loans and other receivables
loan receivables and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not
quoted in an active market and are not held by the group with the intent to sell. loan receivables and other receivables are
valued at amortized cost using the effective rate method. they are included in current or non-current loan receivables, trade
receivables and other receivables category on the balance sheet in accordance with their nature.

available-for-sale financial assets
available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets specifically designated to this group or not categorized
otherwise. available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value. when the fair value cannot be reliably determined,
they are measured at acquisition cost.

changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets are entered in other comprehensive income and presented in
the fair value reserve, taking into account the tax effect. changes in fair value are transferred from other comprehensive
income to the income statement as adjustments when the instrument is sold or its value has decreased so that an impairment
loss has to be recognized for the instrument.

cash and cash equivalents
cash and cash equivalents consist of cash, short-term bank deposits that can be withdrawn on demand and other current
highly liquid investments that can be exchanged to an amount of cash assets that is known in advance, and with a low risk of
changes in value. items classified as cash and cash equivalents have a maximum maturity of three months from acquisition.

impairment of financial assets
the group assesses, at each reporting date, whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial
assets is impaired. an impairment exists if one or more events that has occurred since the initial recognition of the asset has
an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset that can be reliably estimated. evidence of impairment
may include indications that the debtor is experiencing significant financial difficulty, default of payments, the likelihood of
bankruptcy, and delay of more than 180 days of a payment or other observable data indicating that there is a measurable
decrease in the estimated future cash flows. if the amount of the impairment loss is decreased during a subsequent period
and the decrease can be objectively considered to be associated with an event after the impairment was recognized, the
recognized loss is reversed through profit or loss.

financial liabilities
financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value, net of transaction cost. subsequently, financial liabilities, excluding
derivative liabilities, are valued at amortized cost using the effective interest method. financial liabilities are classified as
non-current liabilities if they mature in more than 12 months. liabilities maturing in less than 12 months are classified as
current.



                                                   basware annual report 2016 – 46

derivates
derivative contracts are recognized at fair value through profit and loss. gains and losses resulting from fair value
measurement are treated in accounting as specified by the purpose of the derivative contract.

at the inception of a hedge relationship, the group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which it
wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge. for cash flow
hedges the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in oci in the cash flow hedge
reserve, while any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the statement of profit or loss. amounts recognised as oci
are transferred to profit or loss when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss.

provisions
a provision is recognized when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is
probable that the obligation will have to be settled, and the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated. provisions are
measured at the present value required in order to cover the obligation. the present value factor used in the calculation of the
present value is selected so that it represents the market insight into the time value of money and liability-related risks at the
time of the assessment.

employee benefit expenses
the group has exclusively defined contribution pension arrangements, and the related payments are expensed in the year
they are incurred.the group has exclusively defined contribution pension arrangements, and the related payments are
expensed in the year they are incurred.

group also has defined benefit based incentive schemes to commit personnel in accordance with local regulations and
practices in countries where it operates. the calculations for defined benefit plans are done according to same principles as
defined benefit plans for pensions and they predispose the group to actuary risks like payroll risk, interest risk and risk
related to expected lifetime. amounts of the defined benefit plans are based on the yearly calculations submitted by
independent actuaries. the present value of the defined benefit obligations is determined by discounting the estimated future
cash flows using interest rates of government issued bonds, if interest rate of high quality-corporate bonds is not
available. these plans are unfunded.

share-based payments
group has share-based incentive schemes in which the payment are made either as in equity instruments or in cash.
share-based incentive schemes are valued at fair value on the grant date, recognized as an expense in the consolidated
statement of comprehensive income during the period in which the conditions are met (the vesting period) and with a
corresponding adjustment to the equity or liability. the liability of the part settled in cash is revalued at each balance sheet
date with changes in fair value recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. the expense from
share-based incentive schemes is recognized in employee benefits expenses in the consolidated statement of
comprehensive income.

income taxes
income taxes comprise of tax based on the taxable income for the financial year and deferred taxes. taxes are recognized in
the statement of comprehensive income except for the expenses entered directly to shareholders’ equity when they are
entered on the balance sheet as part of shareholders’ equity.

taxes based on taxable income are recorded according to the local tax rules of each country using the tax rate in force.

when uncertainty is included to interpretation of income tax rules, group estimates, if a company is able to fully utilize the tax
position that is stated in income tax computation. if necessary, tax bookings are adjusted to reflect the changes in tax
position. at reporting date booked income tax amounts reflect the estimates of future tax payments.

deferred taxes are calculated from all temporary differences between the carrying amount and taxable value at the tax rates
confirmed at the reporting date. the most significant temporary differences arise from depreciation of property, plant and
equipment, unused tax losses, and adjustments for fair values in connection with acquisitions. deferred tax is not recognized
for non-tax deductible goodwill. in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries,
and interests in joint arrangements, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary
differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences
can be utilised. deferred tax is not recognized for non-distributed profits of subsidiaries in so far as the difference is not likely
to be discharged in the foreseeable future. deferred tax assets are recognised for all other deductible temporary differences.
a deferred tax asset is recognized to the extent that it is likely that there will be future taxable income against which it is
deductible. the requirements for the recognition of deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date.

shareholders' equity
costs related to the issue or purchase of equity instruments are recorded as a reduction of shareholders' equity. own equity
instruments that are reacquired (treasury shares) are recognised at cost and deducted from equity.


                                                 basware annual report 2016 – 47

accounting principles requiring management’s judgement and key uncertainties relating to the use of estimates
preparation of financial statements in accordance with the ifrs standards requires basware's management to make
estimates and assumptions that have an effect on the amount of assets and liabilities on the balance sheet at the closing date
as well as the amounts of income and expenses for the financial period. in addition, the management must exercise its
judgment regarding the application of accounting policies. since the estimates and assumptions are based on the views at
the date of the financial statements, they include risks and uncertainties. the actual results may differ from the estimates
and assumptions.

more information on the most significant items requiring management’s judgement:


                                                                                                          number for the note
goodwill                                                                                                                     4

development expenses                                                                                                         8

trade receivables                                                                                                           17

deferred tax assets                                                                                                         10

share-based payments                                                                                                         7

financial risk management                                                                                                   20


alternative performance measures
basware presents the following financial measures to supplement its consolidated financial statements which are
prepared in accordance with ifrs. these measures are designed to measure growth and provide insight into the
company’s underlying operational performance. the group has applied the recent guidance from esma (the european
securities and markets authority) on alternative performance measures which is applicable as of july 3, 2016 and defined
alternative performance measures as follows.

recurring revenue reported by the company consists of net sales excluding license sales and consulting revenue for
deliveries. alliance fees from financing-related value added services are not included in the recurring revenue.

cloud revenue includes net sales from transactions services, saas and other subscription revenues, and financing
services excluding alliance fees.

organic revenue growth is calculated by comparing net sales between comparison periods in constant currencies
excluding alliance fees as well as net sales from acquisitions that have taken place in the past 12 months. net sales in
constant currencies is calculated by eliminating the impact of changes in currencies by calculating the net sales for the
period by using the comparable period’s exchange rates.

gross investments are total investments made to non-current assets including acquisitions and capitalized r&d
costs.other capital expenditure consists of investments in property, plant & equipment and intangible assets excluding
acquisitions and capitalized r&d costs.

ebitda is defined as operating profit + depreciation and amortization.

adjusted ebitda is reported excluding any adjustments related to alliance fees, acquisitions and disposals, restructuring
and efficiency measures, impairment losses and litigation fees and settlement


2. operating segments
basware reports one operating segment: purchase to pay, p2p. the segment is divided into the network business, the
purchase to pay business and to the professional service business that support each other.

basware reports revenues by business area: the network business area is responsible for basware’s network business,
aimed at accelerating growth of transactions in basware’s network, the largest open business commerce network in the
world. reported within the network business area, financing services business area is responsible for selling and
implementing basware’s innovative financing services, providing the customers with new, real-time alternatives to manage
their working capital on basware’s network.

the purchase to pay (p2p) business area is responsible for basware’s software business, extending the company’s global
leadership in purchase to pay solutions and driving the growth in cloud-based services.

professional services is a global unit serving all basware’s customers, including project management, delivery, business
consulting and related operations and development across the business areas.

basware’s revenue by type is divided into cloud and non-cloud revenue. to cloud revenue is included saas, transaction
services (consisting of e-invoicing, scan and capture services, printing services and network start-up fees) and other cloud
revenue (consisting of other subscription fees and revenue from financing services excluding alliance fees). to non-cloud


                                                basware annual report 2016 – 48

revenue is included maintenance, license sales and consulting services (consisting of professional services and customer
services management) and other non-cloud revenue (consisting of alliance fees).

basware reports revenues by primaly . the revenue types are split by transaction services (consisting of e-invoicing, scan
and capture services, printing services and network start-up fees), saas, consulting services (consisting of professional
services and customer services management), maintenance, license sales, and other.

basware reports geographical areas finland, emeia, and americas & apac. the finland area includes the finnish
operations and corporate services. emeia combines scandinavia and the rest of europe, as well as operations in russia
and africa. americas & apac includes business operations in north and south america and the pacific region.

the geographical information of non-current assets is reported by the location of the assets in the annual financial
statements.


net sales by type
eur thousand
                                                                                  1.1.-31.12.2016              1.1.-31.12.2015
cloud revenue
saas                                                                                       22,975                       11,811
transaction services                                                                       35,996                       33,256
other cloud revenue                                                                         7,270                        7,150
cloud revenue total                                                                        66,242                       52,217
non-cloud revenue
maintenance                                                                                40,761                       41,664
license sales                                                                               7,188                       10,921
consulting services                                                                        34,389                       35,616
other non-cloud revenue                                                                         0                        2,992
non-cloud revenue total                                                                    82,338                       91,193
group total                                                                              148,580                       143,410



net sales by business areas
eur thousand
                                                                                   1.1.-31.12.2016             1.1.-31.12.2015
network                                                                                    46,663                       47,656
p2p                                                                                        70,379                       62,304
professional services                                                                      31,538                       33,450
group total                                                                               148,580                      143,410




net sales by customer location
eur thousand
                                                                                  1.1.-31.12.2016              1.1.-31.12.2015
finland                                                                                    50,093                       49,238
emeia                                                                                      71,163                       75,810
americas & apac                                                                            27,324                       18,363
group total                                                                              148,580                       143,410




net sales by geographical area
eur thousand
                                                                                       31.12.2016                  31.12.2015
finland                                                                                    80,623                       78,116
emeia                                                                                      78,698                       67,541
americas & apac                                                                            26,870                       17,586
sales between areas                                                                       -37,612                      -19,833
group total                                                                               148,580                      143,410




                                               basware annual report 2016 – 49

operating result by geographical area
eur thousand
                                                                                      31.12.2016                 31.12.2015
finland                                                                                  -15,425                      -1,432
emeia                                                                                        436                       6,099
americas & apac                                                                            2,006                       1,327
operating result between areas                                                              -962                      -1,316
group total                                                                              -13,946                       4,676



non-current assets based on the location of the assets
eur thousand
                                                                                      31.12.2016                 31.12.2015
finland                                                                                   57,464                     47,320
emeia                                                                                     55,589                     60,315
americas & apac                                                                           36,500                       1,832
total                                                                                    149,554                    109,467



3. business combinations
basware signed an agreement on march 31, 2016 to acquire all membership interest of us based verian technologies
llc ("verian"). the acquisition of verian, a leading cloud-based e-procurement solution provider in the us, closed on april
1, 2016. the acquisition further strengthens basware's market position in the us and supports basware's strategy to grow
its cloud-based business revenues in key markets. verian brings additional cloud-based customers and added
e-procurement capabilities to basware's portfolio. the acquisition will also enable verian customers to leverage the power
of the basware network. the acquired business has been consolidated into basware’s result from the acquisition date.

the acquisition price was eur 31 557 thousand. part of the acquisition price was paid in cash eur 24 493 thousand and
part eur 7 065 thousand in the form of shares of basware, and basware issued 180,707 new shares to the major owners
of verian at a subscription price of eur 39.09 per share. the acquired net assets amount to approximately eur 3 844
thousand, including the cash reserves of eur 281 thousand. approximately eur 4 240 thousand associated with
customer relationships have been allocated to intangible assets, eur 315 thousand to order backlog and eur 1 308
thousand to technology. the value associated with customer relationships will be amortized in 10 years, starting from the
second quarter of 2016 and the value associated with order backlog in three years. the value associated with technology
will be amortized in 5 years. the goodwill of eur 27 713 thousand is recognized primarily to be attributing to the expected
revenue synergies between verian's and basware's cloud businesses. the calculation concerning the allocation of the
purchase price is expected to be confirmed during first quarter in 2017, the final working capital adjustment has not been
concluded. the group has booked acquisition related transaction costs for eur 415 thousand, that mainly comes from
advisory services. transaction costs are included in other operating expenses in the group income statement. the fair
value of accounts receivables are eur 3 012 thousand that is eur 30 thousand less than the gross amount on the
acquisition date. the eur 30 thousand is expected to be realized as a bad debt.




                                               basware annual report 2016 – 50

the values of acquired assets and liabilities as at the date of acquisition:
eur thousand
                                                                                                                 fair value
intangible assets                                                                                                       4,558
tangible assets                                                                                                         1,598
trade and other receivables                                                                                             3,893
cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                 281
total assets                                                                                                        10,331


trade and other payables                                                                                                6,487
long-term liabilities                                                                                                    696
total liabilities                                                                                                       7,183


net assets                                                                                                              3,844
goodwill                                                                                                            27,713
consideration                                                                                                       31,557


analysis of cash flows on acquisition:
consideration                                                                                                      -31,557
share issue                                                                                                             7,065
cash and cash equivalents in procserve                                                                                   281
transaction costs                                                                                                        -415
net cash flow on acquisition                                                                                       -24,627



the net sales of the acquired business included in the group income statement since acquisition date were eur 8 078
thousand and result for the period was eur 370 thousand. the group net sales would have totaled eur 150 724
thousand and result for the period eur -15 198 thousand, if the business combination had taken place at the beginning of
the year.


4. goodwill
eur thousand
                                                                                            2016                        2015
acquisition cost 1.1.                                                                     69,262                    50,317
translation difference                                                                      -164                         -629
additions                                                                                 27,713                    19,574
acquisition cost 31.12.                                                                   96,811                    69,262


book value 31.12.                                                                         96,811                    69,262



goodwill comprises of the following arrangements:
eur thousand
                                                                                                                  goodwill
momentum doc, ab (2002)                                                                                                  1,025

iocore as / basware as (2005)                                                                                            2,522

trivet oy (2005)                                                                                                          669

analyste oyj (2006)                                                                                                     13,869

digital vision technologies ltd. (2007)/ basware uk                                                                      7,454

contempus as (2008)                                                                                                      4,855

itella information as/basware as (2009)                                                                                   446

first businesspost gmbh (2012)                                                                                           9,076

certipost (2013)                                                                                                        10,316

procserve holdings ltd (2015)                                                                                           16,597

verian technologies llc / basware inc (2016)                                                                            29,983

total                                                                                                                   96,811




goodwill from acquisitions is allocated to the group’s cash-generating units (cgus). currently basware identifies one
separate independent cash inflow cgu to which goodwill can directly be linked as per the below table:

                                                      basware annual report 2016 – 51

cash generating unit
eur thousand
                                                                                              2016                        2015
purchase to pay                                                                             96,811                       69,262
total                                                                                       96,811                       69,262




goodwill is tested according to ias 36. basware does not possess any other intangible assets than goodwill that has
indefinite economical life. unfinised intangible assets are also subjected to impairment testing during reporting period.
impairment testing is carried out at group level as the basware has centralised steering model and reporting structure that
this. goodwill is monited at group level internally.

goodwill has been tested for impairment in the last quarter of 2016. the recoverable amounts from the cash generating
unit (cgu) are determined based on value-in-use calculations. the calculations are prepared on a discounted cash flow
method basis, derived from the management approved estimates for the following year and subsequent development
derived from the strategic plans. cash flows beyond the 5-year period are calculated using the terminal value method. the
terminal growth rate of 2 % used in projections is based on management’s assessment on conservative long term growth.
key driver for the valuation is the revenue growth based on group’s performance and future strategic growth plans, market
position as well as the potential in key markets.

the applied discount rate is the weighted average pre-tax cost of capital (wacc). the components of the wacc are
risk-free rate, market risk premium, company specific factor, and industry specific beta, cost of debt and debt/equity ratio.
the wacc of 10,5 % (10,38 %) has been used in the calculations. there were no major changes in the assumptions
behind the calculation.

as a result of the impairment test, no impairment loss for the cgu were recognized for the financial periods ended 31
december 2016 and 2015 respectively. the recoverable amount exceeds the total carrying amount of fixed assets.

sensitivity analysis was conducted and there is no indications that the changes in the assumptions could be so substantial
that the carrying amount would exceed the recoverable amount. in the future impairment testing is influenced by how the
group will meet the targets set for year 2020. in sensitive analysis was assessed the impacts of substantial changes in the
most significant assumptions like revenue growth, ebit percentage as well as the discount rate.


5. other operating income
eur thousand
                                                                                    1.1.-31.12.2016             1.1.-31.12.2015
other operating income                                                                           4                          104
other operating income                                                                           4                          104




6. materials and services
eur thousand
                                                                                    1.1.-31.12.2016             1.1.-31.12.2015
purchases during the period                                                                 -12,943                     -12,858
increase / decrease in inventories                                                              -30                         -13
external services                                                                            -2,774                      -3,526
materials and services                                                                      -15,746                     -16,396




6. personnel and employee benefits

employed, on average
                                                                                    1.1.-31.12.2016             1.1.-31.12.2015
finland                                                                                        500                          479
emeia (excluding india)                                                                        599                          514
india                                                                                          577                          522
americas & apac                                                                                135                              76
personnel total                                                                               1,811                       1,591




                                                basware annual report 2016 – 52

employee benefits expenses
eur thousand
                                                                                    1.1.-31.12.2016          1.1.-31.12.2015
salaries and fees                                                                          -86,654                  -69,878
share-based incentive plans                                                                   -973                     -781
expenses from defined benefit plans                                                            -74                        0
pension expenses, defined benefit plans                                                     -7,348                    -6,711
other employee benefits                                                                     -9,551                   -8,357
employee benefits expenses                                                                -104,600                  -85,726




key management compensation
eur thousand
                                                                                    1.1.-31.12.2016          1.1.-31.12.2015
salaries and other short-term employee benefits                                             -2,288                   -2,120
post-employment benefits                                                                      -661                     -106
share-based payments                                                                          -634                     -781
total                                                                                       -3,583                   -3,007




management and board salaries, fees and benefits
eur thousand
                                                                                    1.1.-31.12.2016          1.1.-31.12.2015
ceo of parent company
esa tihilä (until 25 september 2016)                                                          -403                     -428
vesa tykkyläinen (from 26 september 2016)                                                      -90                        0
compensation of the members of the board of directors
hannu vaajoensuu                                                                               -60                      -60
david bateman (from 15 march 2016)                                                               0                        0
michael ingelög                                                                                -33                      -28
pentti heikkinen (until 13 february 2015)                                                        0                        -4
ilkka sihvo                                                                                    -37                      -37
tuija soanjärvi                                                                                -33                      -32
anssi vanjoki                                                                                  -33                      -32
total                                                                                         -690                     -621




the salary of ceo esa tihilä, including benefits, totaled eur 403 thousand (eur 428 thousand) for the period january 1 -
september 25, 2016. salary in money was eur 231 thousand (eur 340 thousand), bonus totaled eur 31 thousand (eur
30 thousand) and fringe benefits totaled eur 9 thousand (eur 14 thousand). during year 2016 on the basis of the
incentive scheme, esa tihilä was granted 3 810 shares, of which 1 906 shares were conveyed to esa tihilä (the value of
which is approximately eur 66 thousand based on the average share price of the payment dates) and eur 66 thousand
was paid in cash to cover the withholding tax.

the accrued pension costs of esa tihilä amounted to eur 52 thousand (eur 65 thousand). the ceo's pension plan is
pursuant to the employment pension legislation. the ceo has 6 months' period of notice and salary for the period of notice
should the company give notice, in addition to which he is entitled to severance pay equivalent of 12 months' fixed salary.
esa tihilä stepped down as the ceo of basware corporation on september 26, 2016. the salary of the notice period is
eur 164 thousand and the one-time severance pay eur 328 thousand. esa tihilä will receive from the incentive schemes
total 3 900 shares, of which half will be conveyed as shares and half paid in cash.

vesa tykkyläinen commenced in his position as the ceo of basware corporation on september 26, 2016. this salary,
including benefits, totaled eur 90 thousand for the period september 26 – december 31, 2016. salary in money was eur
87 thousand and fringe benefits totaled eur 3 thousand. the accrued pension costs amounted to eur 18 thousand. the
ceo's pension plan is pursuant to the employment pension legislation.

                                                  basware annual report 2016 – 53

share-based payments

incentive schemes
incentive scheme 2012-2014

for years 2012-2014 basware group has an incentive plan, that the board of directors updated on 2013 to continue until
the end of 2015.

the system comprises annual earning periods 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 and fixed earning period 2013-2015.

members of the executive team may be allocated additional shares without consideration against shareholding during the
earning period 2012-2015. the board of directors decides on the earnings criteria and related targets separately for each
annual earning period at the beginning of the earning period. there are employment-related conditions for eligibility for
reward payment. the reward for the fixed earning period 2013-2015 is based on basware corporation's earnings per share
(eps). the target group of the fixed earning period 2013-2015 includes the members of the basware executive team.

the shares to be allocated at the target level will continue to correspond at the current share price to the approximate
amount of 91 299 basware corporation shares (including also the proportion to be paid in cash) and totaling 130 004 at
the maximum. the possible shares to be allocated will consist of own shares held by the company or acquired in public
trading through nasdaq omx helsinki ltd.

the grant from annual earning period 2013 was paid in january 2016, partially as shares of the company and partially in
cash. the target of the fixed earning period 2013-2015 was not reached and therefore the plan was not realised. annual
earning period 2015 was covered with the incentive scheme 2015-2017.

incentive scheme 2015-2017

basware informed about a new share-based incentive plan directed to a group of key personnel from the beginning of
2015 until the end of 2017 on 24 march 2015.

the aim of the plan is to combine the objectives of the shareholders and the key personnel in order to increase the value of
the company, commit the key personnel to the company, and offer them a competitive reward plan based on shareholding
in the company. accordingly, the board of directors encourages the basware executive team members to hold shares in
the company equaling the value of annual gross base salary.

the system includes three earning periods, calendar years 2015, 2016 and 2017. the first one thirds of the earned shared
will be allocated 6 months, the second one thirds 12 months and the third one thirds 18 months after the end of the earning
period. in addition, in early 2015, the members of basware executive team may be allocated shares against purchased
shares (11.000 in maximum) without consideration against shareholding of three years during the earning periods in
2015-2017.

the board of directors decides on the earnings criteria and related targets separately for each annual earning period at the
beginning of the earning period. the possible reward for the earning period 2015 is based on the revenue, operating profit
growth and the total shareholder return of basware corporation. the shares to be allocated based on the plan for
2015-2017 at the target level amount to approximately 243.593 basware corporation shares (including also the proportion
to be paid in cash) and total up to 313.371 shares.

the possible shares to be allocated will consist of own shares held by the company or acquired in public trading through
nasdaq omx helsinki ltd. the new share-based incentive plan is directed to approximately 40 people

first third of the reward from earning period 2015 was paid in june 2016, partly as shares and partly as cash. targets for
earning period 2016 was not met, therefore no reward is paid from this earning period.

incentive scheme 2016-2019

the board of directors of basware corporation decided february 2, 2016 to establish a new share-based incentive plan
directed to key personnel in the company for years 2016-2019.

the share-based incentive plan is an element of annual bonus plan for the target group and will be linked to the
employee's performance which will be measured for the full year of 2016. each participating employee will be able to
purchase basware shares in april 2017, utilizing 25 percent of their achieved bonus reward. in the case an employee holds
these purchased shares for a 2-year period, the company will provide a one-to-one match against these shares, to be paid
to the employee after april 2019.

the aim of this plan is to reward performance and commit the key employees to the company whilst ensuring a competitive
reward plan with a shareholding in the company. the matched shares to be distributed based on the plan in april 2019
amount at the target level to approximately 5,000 basware corporation shares (including also the proportion to be paid in


                                               basware annual report 2016 – 54

cash).

the new incentive plan including a share-based element will be directed to approximately 40 people. the possible shares
to be distributed to the employees in the plan will consist of own shares held by the company or new shares acquired in
public trading through nasdaq helsinki ltd.

targets for earning period 2016 was not met, therefore no reward is paid from this earning period.

additional scheme

to group key personnel is allocated additional shares according to the decision of the board of directors for years 2016
and 2015.

in the following tables is presented the information affecting to the incentive plans




share-based incentive plan
                                                                               2013 annual vesting        2014 annual vesting
basic values
maximum number of shares year 2013                                                              33,417

maximum amount of cash year 2013                                                                33,417

maximum number of shares year 2014                                                                                       32,562

maximum amount of cash year 2014                                                                                         32,562

date of issue                                                                                 14.2.2013                24.2.2014

beginning of earning period                                                                   14.2.2013                 1.3.2014

end of earning period                                                                       31.12.2015               31.12.2016

vesting conditions                                                                             working                  working
                                                                                            commitment               commitment

criterion 1                                                                                   net sales                net sales

form of the reward                                                                      shares and cash          shares and cash

number of persons, date of issue                                                                    25                       25

share price, date of issue                                                                        20.30                    33.90

the annual expected dividends, fair value                                                          1.37                     1.37

closing share price 31.12.2014                                                                    41.04                    41.04

closing share price 31.12.2015                                                                    37.32                    37.32

closing share price 31.12.2016                                                                    36.30                    36.30

fair value 31.12.2014                                                                           96,489                  543,837

fair value 31.12.2015                                                                           63,967                  484,991

fair value 31.12.2016                                                                                0                  467,403

recognized liability, cash portion                                                              41,612                  244,928

cumulative expense 2014                                                                         62,948                  167,456

cumulative expense 2015                                                                         63,967                  301,658

cumulative expense 2016                                                                              0                  467,403




                                                basware annual report 2016 – 55

share-based incentive plan
                                                                       2015 annual vesting           2016 annual vesting
                                                                             ansaintajakso                 ansaintajakso
basic values
maximum number of shares year 2015                                                        67,550

maximum amount of cash year 2015                                                          67,550

maximum number of shares year 2016                                                                                     38,813

maximum amount of cash year 2016                                                                                       38,812

date of issue                                                                          23.3.2015                    18.7.2016

beginning of earning period                                                            23.3.2015                    18.7.2016

end of earning period                                                                   1.7.2017                     1.7.2018

vesting conditions                                                            working commitment          working commitment

criterion 1                                                                            net sales                     net sales

criterion 2                                                                             net profit                           -
criterion 3                                                                            stock price                  stock price
form of the reward                                                                shares and cash              shares and cash

number of persons, date of issue                                                               39                          43

share price, date of issue                                                                 39.82                        35.00

volatility                                                                               25,80 %                      26,32 %

riskfee interest                                                                          0,11 %                      -0,21 %

lifetime of performance                                                                      0.78                        0.45

the annual expected dividends, fair value                                                  0.165                         0.00

pricing model                                                          black-scholes/monte carlo     black-scholes/monte carlo

closing share price 31.12.2015                                                             37.32

closing share price 31.12.2016                                                             36.30                        36.30

fair value 31.12.2015                                                                  1,205,127                             0

fair value 31.12.2016                                                                  1,324,874                             0

recognized liability, cash portion                                                       325,708                             0

cumulative expense 2016                                                                  531,474                             0

cumulative expense 2016                                                                1,208,806                             0




                                            basware annual report 2016 – 56

share-based incentive plan
                                      2014 annual vesting        2015 annual vesting         2016 annual vesting
                                            ansaintajakso              ansaintajakso               ansaintajakso
basic values
maximum number of shares year                           750
2014
maximum amount of cash year                             750
2014
maximum number of shares year                                                        1,500
2015
maximum amount of cash year                                                          1,500
2015
maximum number of shares year                                                                                 2,000
2016
maximum amount of cash year                                                                                   2,000
2016
date of issue                                     24.11.2014                      5.5.2015                28.7.2016

beginning of earning period                       24.11.2014                      5.5.2015                28.7.2016

end of earning period                               1.1.2016                     31.5.2016                31.3.2017

vesting conditions                        working commitment         working commitment          working commitment

form of the reward                           shares and cash               shares and cash          shares and cash

number of persons, date of issue                          1                             2                        3

share price, date of issue                             40.85                         39.63                    37.25

the annual expected dividends, fair                     1.37                          0.17                     0.00
value
closing share price 31.12.2014                         41.05

closing share price 31.12.2015                         37.32                         37.32

closing share price 31.12.2016                         36.30                         36.30                    36.30

fair value 31.12.2014                                 31,316

fair value 31.12.2015                                 49,395                       76,950

fair value 31.12.2016                                                                                       146,900

recognized liability, cash portion                                                                           46,207

cumulative expense 2014                                2,875

cumulative expense 2015                               49,395                       47,308

cumulative expense 2016                                                                                      93,754




                                         basware annual report 2016 – 57

share-based incentive plan
                                                                                  2012 matching               2015 matching
                                                                                      of shares*                 of shares *
basic valuesperustiedot
maximum number of shares year 2012                                                            2,697

maximum amount of cash year 2012                                                                 0

maximum number of shares year 2013                                                            4,869

maximum amount of cash year 2013                                                                 0

maximum number of shares year 2014                                                            2,562

maximum amount of cash year 2014                                                                 0

maximum number of shares year 2015                                                            1,320                      10,548

maximum amount of cash year 2015                                                                 0                            0

date of issue                                                                             16.2.2012                   23.3.2015

beginning of earning period                                                               16.2.2012                   23.3.2015

end of earning period                                                                    31.12.2015                  31.12.2017

vesting conditions                                                               working commitment         working commitment

criterions                                                               number of deposited shares   number of deposited shares

form of the reward                                                                          shares                       shares

number of persons, date of issue                                                                 11                           6

share price, date of issue                                                                    18.53                       39.82

the annual expected dividends, fair value                                                      1.37                        0.17

closing share price 31.12.2014                                                                41.05

closing share price 31.12.2015                                                                37.32                       37.32

closing share price 31.12.2016                                                                36.30                       36.30

fair value 31.12.2014                                                                        39,568

fair value 31.12.2015                                                                        24,796                     114,183

fair value 31.12.2016                                                                            0                      298,455

recognized liability, cash portion                                                                                       63,773

cumulative expense 2014                                                                      36,375

cumulative expense 2015                                                                      24,796                     114,183

cumulative expense 2016                                                                          0                      191,318


* allocation of shares against share holding




                                               basware annual report 2016 – 58

8. other operating expenses
eur thousand
                                                                                      1.1.-31.12.2016   1.1.-31.12.2015
other operating expenses
rents                                                                                         -4,860            -4,465
non-statutory employee benefits                                                               -1,352            -1,053
travel                                                                                        -4,348            -3,633
marketing                                                                                     -6,652            -4,670
it and telephone                                                                              -1,902            -2,085
bad debt from account receivables                                                             -1,040               525
auditor fees                                                                                    -576              -337
other expenses                                                                               -12,901           -13,772
other operating expenses total                                                               -33,631           -29,490


auditor fees
audit fees                                                                                      -247              -252
tax advices                                                                                     -110               -58
other fees and services                                                                         -219               -26
audit fees total                                                                                -576              -337


research and development expenses
research and development in income statement                                                 -13,396           -11,994
increases in capitalized development expenses                                                -10,878            -8,754
research and development expenses total                                                      -24,274           -20,748




9. financial income and expenses
eur thousand
                                                                                      1.1.-31.12.2016   1.1.-31.12.2015
finance income
interest rate and currency derivatives, no hedge accounting                                        0               -20
interest income                                                                                  125                83
other financial income                                                                         5,075             2,123
total                                                                                          5,200             2,187


finance expenses
interest rate and currency derivatives, no hedge accounting                                        0                11
interest expenses                                                                               -287              -126
other finance expenses                                                                        -5,053            -1,562
total                                                                                         -5,341            -1,677


finance income and expenses total                                                               -141               510

other finance income is comprised of exchange gains.

other finance expenses are mainly comprised of exchange losses.




                                                    basware annual report 2016 – 59

exchange differences recognized on income statement
eur thousand
                                                                                1.1.-31.12.2016     1.1.-31.12.2015
exchange differences included in net sales                                                     0              -226
exchange differences included in purchases and                                              -131                60
expenses
foreign exchange gains                                                                     5,040             2,123
foreign exchange losses                                                                    -5,038           -1,563
exchange differences recognized on income                                                   -129               393
statement




10. income and deferred taxes

income tax
eur thousand
                                                                                1.1.-31.12.2016     1.1.-31.12.2015
income tax on operations                                                                   -1,058           -1,412
tax for previous accounting periods                                                           -80            1,385
change in deferred tas liabilities and tax assets                                          3,077              -453
income tax                                                                                 1,939              -481



tax rate reconciliation
eur thousand
                                                                                1.1.-31.12.2016     1.1.-31.12.2015
profit before taxes                                                                       -16,256            3,563


tax calculated at domestic tax rate                                                        3,250              -713
tax for previous years                                                                        -80            1,385
effect of different tax rates of foreign subsidiaries                                         10              -452
effect of change in tax rate                                                                   5                 3
non-deductible expenses                                                                        6              -564
other                                                                                          -8             -138
income not subject to tax                                                                     21
application of loss from previous year                                                        -24             -153
profit not included in the accounting profit                                                -299
unrecognized deferred tax assets from tax losses                                            -434              -320
reassessment of deferred tax assets                                                         -508               472
income taxes                                                                               1,939              -480




income tax receivables and payables
eur thousand
                                                                                    31.12.2016          31.12.2015
income tax receivables                                                                       126             1,498


income tax liabilities                                                                       637               986




taxes relating to other comprehensive income
eur thousand
                                                                                1.1.-31.12.2016     1.1.-31.12.2015
taxes on foreign exchange gains from net investments                                         311              -278




                                                        basware annual report 2016 – 60

local tax authorities are investigating tax position of certain companies in the group from previous tax years in india and
usa. tax risk and uncertainty related to these incidents have been identified, but for the moment the risk assessment has
not resulted tax bookings in the group. with further information the arguments for tax bookings are reassessed in the
future.


deferred tax assets 2016
eur thousand
                  1.1.2016     in income statement     business acquisitions     period change booked in equity    31.12.2016


losses                4,138                   3,980                                                                      8,118

other items             695                    -409                                                                       286

total                 4,832                   3,571                                                                     8,403




deferred tax assets 2015
eur thousand
                  1.1.2015     in income statement     business acquisitions     period change booked in equity    31.12.2015


losses                3,871                    267                         0                                            4,138

other items             506                    156                        33                                              695

total                 4,377                    422                        33                                            4,832




deferred tax liabilities 2016
eur thousand
                              1.1.2016   in income statement   exchange rate differences   business acquisitions   31.12.2016


allocation of fair value on      4,060                   963                        -138                                4,885
purchases
other temporary                    485                  -469                           3                                   19
differences
total                            4,545                   494                        -135                       0        4,904




deferred tax liabilities 2015
eur thousand
                              1.1.2015   in income statement   exchange rate differences   business acquisitions   31.12.2015


allocation of fair value on      2,368                   558                         -20                   1,155        4,060
purchases
other temporary                     65                   425                           7                     -12          485
differences
total                            2,433                   983                         -13                   1,143        4,545




the group has a total of eur 8 118 thousand (eur 4 138 thousand) of deferred tax assets for unutilized tax losses of
subsidiaries, of which eur 4 217 thousand will expire during 2025–2030, while the rest have no expiry period. according
to the transfer pricing principle, subsidiaries accumulate taxable income against which confirmed losses can be utilized in
the future. deferred tax assets totaling eur 3 980 thousand (eur 267 thousand) net were additionally recognized during
the financial period for unutilized tax losses accumulated in previous years. the group has total eur 2 000 thousand
unutilized tax credit and losses from which deferred tax assets has not been recognised. the group will reassess the
amount of deferred tax receivables if expectations of the coming tax payments changes.




                                                  basware annual report 2016 – 61

11. earnings per share

eur thousand
                                                                                1.1.-31.12.2016              1.1.-31.12.2015
result for the period                                                                   -14,318                          3,083


average sharenumber, 1,000 pieces
undiluted                                                                               14,294                          14,151
diluted                                                                                 14,313                          14,173


earnings per share
undiluted, eur                                                                            -1.00                           0.22
diluted, eur                                                                              -1.00                           0.22




12. other intangible assets

intangible assets 2016
eur thousand
                              development          intangible       other intangible              assets, unfinished     total
                                     costs             rights                 assets                        projects
acquisition cost 1.1                 24,435            38,037                     810                         16,857     80,138

translation difference                  46               -440                       1                              0       -394
(+/-)
additions                             1,300             6,803                     194                          11,015    19,311

acquisitions through                     0                  4                       0                              0         4
business combinations
disposals                                0                  0                       1                              0         1

reclassifications                     4,225             1,350                       0                          -5,575        0
between items
acquisition cost 31.12               30,005            45,754                   1,005                         22,297     99,061



cumulative amortization             -19,922            -23,488                   -420                              0    -43,829
1.1
translation difference                  -46              -137                      -8                              0       -191
(+/-)
cumulative amortisation                  0                  0                      -1                              0         -1
on disposals
amortization                         -3,039             -4,561                   -114                              0     -7,715

cumulative                          -23,006            -28,187                   -543                              0    -51,736
amortization 31.12


book value 31.12.2014                 6,998            17,566                     463                         22,297     47,325


goodwill is presented in note 4.




                                              basware annual report 2016 – 62

intangible assets 2015
eur thousand
                          development          intangible       other intangible   assets, unfinished     total
                                 costs             rights                 assets             projects
acquisition cost 1.1             24,143            29,120                    612                8,675    62,550

translation difference              -50              -408                     -1                           -459
(+/-)
additions                          221                544                    188               10,163    11,117

business combinations                               6,931                                                 6,931

reclassifications                  121              1,850                     11                -1,982        0
between items
acquisition cost 31.12           24,435            38,037                    810               16,857    80,139



cumulative amortization         -17,221            -19,757                  -340                         -37,318
1.1
translation difference              50                325                      0                            376
(+/-)
cum.amortisation on                                   -500                                                  -500
business combinations
amortization                     -2,750             -3,556                   -80                          -6,386

cumulative                      -19,922            -23,488                  -420                     0   -43,829
amortization 31.12


book value 31.12.2015             4,513            14,548                    390                16,857   36,309




                                          basware annual report 2016 – 63

13. tangible assets

tangible assets 2016
eur thousand
                          machinery and equipment     machinery and equipment, finance lease    other tangible assets     total
acquisition cost 1.1                        11,011                                       128                      122    11,261

translation difference                        -102                                         2                               -100
(+/-)
additions                                     961                                                                  11       972

acquisitions through                             0                                                                            0
business combinations
decreases                                      33                                                                            33

acquisition cost 31.12                      11,903                                       130                      133    12,166



cumulative amortization                     -9,688                                      -128                        0     -9,816
1.1
translation difference                         98                                         -2                                 96
(+/-)
decreases                                      -21                                                                           -21

amortization                                  -840                                                                         -840

cumulative                                 -10,451                                      -130                        0    -10,581
amortization 31.12


book value 31.12.2016                        1,452                                         0                      133     1,585




tangible assets 2015
eur thousand
                          machinery and equipment     machinery and equipment, finance lease    other tangible assets     total
acquisition cost 1.1                         9,950                                       131                      114    10,195

translation difference                          59                                         -2                      10        67
(+/-)
additions                                      825                                                                          825

business combinations                          178                                                                          178

decreases                                       -2                                                                  -3        -4

acquisition cost 31.12                      11,011                                       128                      122    11,261



cumulative amortization                     -8,677                                       -131                       0     -8,808
1.1
translation difference                         -51                                         2                                 -48
(+/-)
cum.amortisation on                           -121                                                                         -121
business combinations
decreases                                        1                                                                            1

amortization                                  -840                                                                         -840

cumulative                                   -9,688                                      -128                        0    -9,816
amortization 31.12


book value 31.12.2015                        1,323                                          0                      122     1,445




                                             basware annual report 2016 – 64

14. shares in joint ventures
eur thousand

summary of financial information on the joint venture
                                                                                      1.1.-31.12.2016           1.1.-31.12.2015
non-current assets                                                                               240                            14
current assets                                                                                  2,087                     3,055


short-term liabilities                                                                           968                      2,472


net sales                                                                                           0                            0
result for the period                                                                          -4,230                    -3,247




joint ventures 31.12.2016
                            name          main industry              registered location                share of ownership(%)
    clearfunding limited                 financing services           london, united kingdom                                    50


basware has determined its interest in the joint venture to be accounted for using the equity method. basware’s share of
results (50 %) of the joint venture is presented as a separate line item in the financial items of the consolidated statement
of comprehensive income and in investments in the consolidated statement of financial position.


15. available-for-sale assets
eur thousand
                                                                                           31.12.2016               31.12.2015
acquisition cost 1.1.                                                                             38                            38
acquisition cost 31.12                                                                            38                            38

available-for-sale investments includes shares of unlisted companies.


16. inventories
eur thousand
                                                                                           31.12.2016               31.12.2015
raw materials and consumables                                                                       0                           30
inventories total                                                                                   0                           30

fifo principle has been applied in the measurement of inventories.


17. trade and other receivables
eur thousand
                                                                                           31.12.2016               31.12.2015
non-current receivables
other non-current receivables                                                                   2,789                     2,080
non-current trade and other receivables total                                                   2,789                     2,080


current receivables
trade receivables                                                                              24,638                    23,692
trade receivables from joint venture                                                             200                       417
short term deposits                                                                                 0                           0
other receivables                                                                                208                       224
prepaid expenses and accrued income                                                             7,964                     5,148
derivatives, non-hedge accounting,                                                                 0                            0
level 2
current receivables total                                                                      33,010                   29,480




                                                  basware annual report 2016 – 65

the fair values of financial assets and liabilities are presented in note 24.

no significant concentrations of credit risk are associated with the receivables. the balance sheet values correspond the
best to the maximum amount of the credit risk. credit risk management principles are presented in note 20.


the ageing analysis of trade receivables and impairment loss
eur thousand
                                        2016     impairment loss       net 2016      2015        impairment loss     net 2015
non-overdue sales receivables         14,566                    0        14,566     14,925                    0        14,925
overdue sales receivables
1-180 days                             9,694                    0         9,694      8,562                    0         8,562
181- 360 days                            763                 -382           382       408                   -204          204
over 360 days                            504                 -504               0     440                   -440            0
total                                 25,527                 -886        24,641     24,335                  -644       23,691




18. cash and cash equivalents
eur thousand
                                                                                        31.12.2016                 31.12.2015
cash and cash equivalents                                                                    37,755                    33,238
cash and short-term deposits                                                                 37,755                    33,238




19. defined benefit plans
group has in indian subsidiary an incentive scheme to commit employees, where benefit is paid to the employee after five
years in service, in case of the employment is ending. the calculations for defined benefit plans are done according to
same principles as defined benefit plans for pensions and they predispose the group to actuary risks like wage risk,
interest risk and risk related to expected lifetime. these plans are unfunded.

the group expects the expenses from the benefit plan to be eur 193 thousand next year.


defined benefit plans
eur thousand
                                                                                    1.1.-31.12.2016            1.1.-31.12.2015
opening value 1.1                                                                                0                          0
amounts recognised in profit & loss
service cost, benefits earned during the year                                                   75                          0
interest expense (+)/income (-)                                                                 19                          0
amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
acturial losses (+)/gains (-)                                                                   97                          0
other changes
items from revaluations                                                                        332                          0
benefits paid                                                                                   -18                         0
ending value 31.12.                                                                            506                          0


the most significant actuarial assumptions
discount interest                                                                            8,00 %                    0.00%
increase of wages                                                                            9,00 %                    0.00%




                                                 basware annual report 2016 – 66

20. management of financial risks
the company's international business involves customary financing risks. the purpose of financial risk management is to
ensure the availability of sufficient financing cost-efficiently and monitor and, if necessary, limit the emerging risks by taking
appropriate measures. risk management is centralized in the group’s finance department.

currency risk
basware's net sales increased by 5.4 % (12.4 %) in constant currencies during 2016.

the group's main currency is euro, accounting for approximately 55 percent of net sales in 2016 (approximately 59% in
2015). in addition to the euro area, basware operates in various areas, the most significant of them being norway,
sweden, the united states and the united kingdom in 2016. the company is exposed to exchange rate risks in these
countries through intra-company trade, exports and imports as well as through the equity and funding of foreign
subsidiaries. the foreign exchange-denominated cash flow in the subsidiaries according to the company’s hedging policy
did not exceed the annual currency-specific limit for hedging measures, and the company therefore did not hedge these
cash flows against exchange rate fluctuations

as of january 1, 2008, the capital structure of basware corporation's foreign subsidiaries has been changed to the extent
that the majority of the long-outstanding intercompany trade receivables in the parent company have been converted to a
long-term net investment in a foreign operation. the purpose of the loan arrangement is to fund a long-term strategic
investment.

accroding to ifrs 7 a sensitivity analysis of currency risk would have had an impact of eur +/- 0.1 million (eur 0.5
million) on the profit before tax at the closing date, assuming a rate change of +/- 5 % of the local currencies (aud, sek,
nok, dkk, gbp, usd, ron, inr) against the euro. other variables are assumed to remain unchanged. the calculation
includes the foreign currency trade payables and accounts receivable in the balance sheet and net investments and
subordinated loans in the subsidiaries. a sensitivity analysis of currency risk in foreign exchange-denominated net
investments would have had an impact of +/- eur 0.5 million (eur 0.9 million) on other comprehensive items in income
statement.

the parent company’s operating currency is euro. foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities translated into the
euro at the exchange rates of the closing date are as follows:


nominal values 2016
eur thousand
                                               usd           aud            gbp             sek             dkk        nok          ron     inr
non-current assets                            33,126          333           9,961           1,229            166            947       201    206

current assets
cash and cash equivalents                       909           140            555             436             240            966       429    331

trade and other receivables                    6,311          855           3,327           1,758           1,044       1,411         292      1

current liabilities
non-interest bearing liabilities               5,100          785           2,872           1,441           1,058       1,305         352    823




nominal values 2015
eur thousand
                                                   usd              aud             gbp             sek             dkk           nok       ron
non-current assets                                     442           189            2,310           1,213            164          1,006      169

current assets
cash and cash equivalents                          2,198            1,263           6,522            648             349          1,710      252

trade and other receivables                        3,298             896            3,120           1,645           1,075         1,348      131

current liabilities
non-interest bearing liabilities                       817           681            6,689           1,256            977          1,460      151




interest rate risk
the company had a total of eur 37.3 million (eur 1.7 million) of variable-rate bank loans at the closing date.

a four-year loan amounting to eur 15.3 million was raised at the end of march 2016 to partly fund the acquisition of verian


                                                 basware annual report 2016 – 67

technologies llc. the loan is paid off in equal half-yearly installments. basware also put in place a eur 10 million
revolving credit facility with a 2-year maturity. the facility is available to fund future working capital requirements and eur
7 million was drawn as of december 31, 2016.

in december 2016 the company signed new variable-rate term loan financing totaling eur 15 million with final maturity in
2018. the use of proceeds is for general working capital purposes of the company

the company is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk through its loan portfolio. the goal of the company’s risk
management with regard to interest rate risk is to minimize the negative impacts of changes in interest rates on the
company’s financial performance. the company applies diverse interest rate hedging instruments to manage interest rate
risks. the average interest rate of loans was 1.25 percent.

according to ifrs 7, the average balances of the variable rate loans realized during the period have been used in the
sensitivity analysis. at the closing date, the effect of variable rate interest-bearing liabilities on profit before taxes would
have been +/- eur 124,5 thousand (eur 28 thousand) had the interest rate increased or decreased by 1 percentage
point.

liquidity risk
the company maintains sufficient liquidity reserves through centralized group-level cash management, payment traffic,
and overdraft facilities. the group’s liquidity remained good during the financial year. group management has not
identified any major concentration of liquidity risks in cash assets and equivalents or in sources of funding. the tables
below describes a maturity analysis on agreements. the figures have not been discounted and they included loan rate and
repayments of capital.


maturity distribution of financial liabilities 2016
eur thousand
                                       balance sheet value       cash flow        0-6 months         6 months - 1 year      1-5 year
bank loans                                            47,280          48,275             7,257                     3,811       37,208

trade and other payables                              11,350          11,350            11,350                        0            0

total                                                 58,630          59,625            18,607                     3,811       37,208




maturity distribution of financial liabilities 2015
eur thousand
                                       balance sheet value       cash flow        0-6 months         6 months - 1 year      1-5 year
bank loans                                             1,667           1,701             1,701                        0            0

trade and other payables                               8,740           8,740             8,740                        0            0

total                                                 10,407          10,441            10,441                        0            0




credit risks
the company’s sales receivables are spread to a vast clientele and do not include significant credit risks. business
management regularly monitors the payment of sales receivables as part of the management of customer accounts. the
group has not used surety bonds to secure sales receivables.

impairment losses recognized during the financial period and the age distribution of sales receivables are presented in
note 17.

capital management
shareholders’ equity reported in the group balance sheet is managed as capital. the company's capital management aims
to ensure the continuity of the company's operations (going concern) and increase the value of shareholder’s investment.

the capital structure can be adjusted by decisions on, e.g., distribution of dividend, share repurchase and share issues.
the resolutions of the annual general meeting and the authorizations of the board of directors are presented in the
annual report. additional information on the share and share issue is presented under share and shareholders.

the company’s objective is to maintain a strong equity ratio and a moderate gearing ratio. the company's equity ratio is
58.5 % (79.1%) and gearing ratio is 8.7 % (-22.4 %).




                                                  basware annual report 2016 – 68

21. shareholder's equity
in the following table is presented changes in shareholders equity and corresponding movements in shares.


shareholders' equity 2016
eur thousand
                          shareholders'     share premium     invested non-restricted            other      treasury     total
                                equity             account                    equity          reserves        shares
31.12.2016                          3,528             1,187                   104,334                 540      -1,109   108,480

share issue                                                                      7,065                                    7,065

decrease of                                                                        -65                            65         0
treasury shares
31.12.2016                          3,528             1,187                    111,333                540      -1,043   115,545




shareholders' equity 2015
eur thousand
                          shareholders'     share premium     invested non-restricted            other      treasury     total
                                equity             account                    equity          reserves        shares
31.12.2014                          3,528             1,187                   104,381                 540      -1,156   108,480

share issue                                                                                                                  0

decrease of                                                                        -48                            48         0
treasury shares
31.12.2015                          3,528             1,187                   104,334                 540      -1,109   108,480




number of shares 2016
                                                                                              2016                       2015
number of outstanding shares 1.1.                                                        14,152,770               14,146,426
share issue (+)                                                                            180,707                           0
incentive plan (+)                                                                            9,837                      6,344
number of outstanding shares 31.2013                                                     14,343,314               14,152,770


treasury shares 1.1.                                                                        68,459                      74,803
incentive plan (-)                                                                            9,837                      6,344
treasury shares 31.12.                                                                      58,622                      68,459




other reserves
other funds include the fair value reserve, which includes the increase in the value of the analyste deal shares between
the publication and realization of the deal in 2006.

treasury shares
the treasury shares reserve includes the acquisition cost of own shares held by the group.

dividends
the annual general meeting resolved in accordance with the proposal of the board of directors that no dividend will be
paid for the year 2016 (2015: 0 euros per dividend). no substantial changes has taken place in the company's financial
position after the end of the financial period.




                                               basware annual report 2016 – 69

22. trade and other liabilities
eur thousand
                                                                                   31.12.2016                31.12.2015
long-term trade and other liabilities
other liabilities                                                                      1,555                       730
long-term trade and other liabilities total                                            1,555                       730


short-term trade and other liabilities
trade liabilities                                                                      7,055                     4,515
accrued expenses and deferred income                                                  22,874                    20,729
other liabilities                                                                      4,296                     4,226
short-term trade and other liabilities total                                          34,225                    29,470

accrued expenses includes personnel related expenses eur 12,390 thousand (eur 10,757 thousand)

the fair value of financial assets and liabilities are presendted in note 24.


23. current provisions
eur thousand
                                                                                       2016                       2015
provision for restructuring                                                               0                            0
booking value 1.1.                                                                        0                            0
increases                                                                             5,072                            0
booking value 31.12                                                                   5,072                            0




basware launched a productivity programme on november 2, 2016 to simplify its operations and increase scalability. the
programme included personnel reductions and affected 130 employees globally. as at the end of september 2016,
basware's global headcount was 1,881 employees. labour negotiations will be executed in cooperation with the personnel
and in compliance with local legal requirements.

restructuring provision was made from the costs related to productivity programme. the provision amounted roughly to
eur 5 million and covers salary expenses, one-time severance packages and outplacement service expenses related to
personnel reductions.




                                                 basware annual report 2016 – 70

24. financial assets and liabilities
eur thousand
                                      note     2016 book value         2016 fair value   2015 book value       2015 fair value
financial assets


non-current
available-for-sale financial
assets
unlisted shares                         14                   38                    38                  38                   38
non-current trade and other             14                1,212                 1,212               1,130                 1,130
receivables


current
current trade and other                 16               25,046                25,046              23,916                23,916
receivables
cash and cash equivalents               17               35,755                35,755              33,238                33,238


financial liabilities


non-current
financial loans measured at
amortized cost
loans from financial                    21               36,732                36,732                   0                       0
institutions, interest-bearing


current
financial liabilities at fair value
through profit or loss
interest rate derivatives -                                   0                     0                   1                       1
non-hedge accounting (level
2)*
financial liabilities - financial
liabilities valued at amortized
acquisition cost
loans from financial                   21                10,548                10,548               1,667                 1,667
institutions, interest-bearing
trade and other payables               21                11,350                11,350               8,740                 8,740

* non-hedged accounting, level 2


in determining the fair values of the financial assets andliabilities, the following price quotations, assumptions
and valuationmodels have been used

available-for-sale financial assets
available-for-sale financial assets consist of unlisted share investments valued at cost less any impairment. therefore, the
fair value of the investments cannot be specified reliably. unlisted shares do not have an active market, and the group
does not intend to give up these investments for the time being.

trade and other receivables
the book value of trade and other receivables corresponds to their fair value as the effect of discounting is not substantial
taking into account the maturity of receivables.

derivatives
the fair value of derivatives is determined on the basis of available market information.

financial liabilities
the floating interest rates of bank loans are based on 1-month euribor, depending on the maturity of the loan. therefore,
the fair value of floating rate loans is considered to correspond to their book value.

the fair value of finance leases is based on discounting future cash flows using an interest rate corresponding to the
interest rate of corresponding lease agreements.

the maturity distribution of financial liabilities is presented in note 20.


                                                  basware annual report 2016 – 71

the group does not have any held-to-maturity investments



24. commitments and contingent liabilities
eur thousand
                                                                                       31.12.2016                       31.12.2015
own guarantees


business mortgage of own debt                                                               1,200                             1,200
guarantees                                                                                    273                              336


commitments on behalf of subsidiaries


guarantees                                                                                    100                                  37


other own contingent liabilities


lease liabilities
current lease liabilities                                                                   1,169                             1,116
lease liabilities maturing in 1- 5 years                                                    1,362                             1,398
total                                                                                       2,530                             2,514


rental liabilities *
current rental liabilities                                                                  4,989                             5,767
rental liabilities maturing in 1- 5 years                                                   9,421                             7,155
rental liabilities maturing over 5 years                                                       41                            1,019
total                                                                                      14,452                           13,941


other own contingent liabilities total                                                     16,983                           16,455


commitments and contingent liabilities total                                               18,555                           18,027

* value added tax is only included in vehicle leasing liabilities. the other rental liabilities are exclusive of value added tax


26. related party transactions
eur thousand
                                                                                       31.12.2016                       31.12.2015
joint venture:
sales                                                                                         784                              824
trade receivable                                                                              200                              417


softaforce:
purchases of services                                                                            0                             117
trade payables                                                                                   0                                 0




basware oyj and softaforce oy have done coperation in procurement outsourcing. agreement is market-based.

basware oyj has established a joint venture clear funding ltd with arrowgrass capital partners llp.

key management compensations are disclosed in note 7. basware oyj's subsidiaries are disclosed in note 27.




                                                 basware annual report 2016 – 72

27. shares in subsidiaries
                                                          domicile                  country          group holding, %
                                                                                                     omistusosuus, %
basware international oy                                        espoo                      finland                 100

basware gmbh                                               düsseldorf                 germany                      100

basware uk ltd.                                          staffordshire            great britain                    100

basware ab                                                 stockholm                   sweden                      100

basware b.v.                                              amsterdam                netherlands                     100

basware a/s                                                     herlev                denmark                      100

basware, inc.                                                 delaware           united states                     100

basware sas                                                       paris                    france                  100

basware as                                                        oslo                     norway                  100

basware pty ltd                                           chatswood                   australia                    100

basware srl                                                         iasi              romania                      100

basware india private limited                             chandigarh                         india                 100

basware belgium nv                                                aalst                belgium                     100

basware holdings ltd.                                          london             great britain                    100

basware shared services ltd.                                   london             great britain                    100

basware supplier solutions ltd.                                london             great britain                    100

procserve solutions ltd.                                       london             great britain                    100

procserve services ltd.                                        london             great britain                    100

procserve inc.                                                arlington          united states                     100

basware technologies llc                                       fort mill         united states                     100




foreign branches
the parent company has branches in india, chandigarh (reg. no f03347) and russia, moscow (eg. no 16926.1).

joint ventures



                                                  domicile                   country                 group holding, %


clearfunding ltd.                                    london                great britain                           50




28. events after the reporting period
after the balance sheet date, no significant events have taken place within the group.




                                               basware annual report 2016 – 73

parent company income statement (fas)
1.1.-31.12.2016
eur thousand
                                note           1.1.-31.12.2016      1.1.-31.12.2015   change, %
net sales                          2                   80,623               78,116          3.2


other operating income             3                        3                   49         -93.1


materials and services             4                  -14,344              -12,702         12.9
employee benefits expenses         5                  -39,485              -36,646          7.7
depreciation and amortization      6                   -6,674               -6,285          6.2
other operating expenses           7                  -35,740              -24,332         46.9
operating result                                      -15,618               -1,800


financial income                   8                    6,670                2,760        141.6
financial expenses                 8                   -6,824               -1,096        522.3
result before tax                                     -15,772                 -136


income taxes                       9                     -115                  826        -114.0
result for the period                                 -15,887                  690




                                  basware annual report 2016 – 74

parent company balance sheet (fas)
31.12.2016
eur thousand
                                            note            31.12.2016     31.12.2015   change, %
assets


non-current assets
intangible assets                             10                34,981        27,006         29.5
tangible assets                               11                  642            723         -11.2
investments                                   12               124,418        92,435         34.6
long-term trade and other receivables         14                  797            634         25.7
non-current assets                                             160,838       120,799         33.1


current assets
inventories                                   13                    0             30
short-term trade and other receivables        15                35,675        22,143         61.1
cash and cash equivalents                                       25,483        18,455         38.1
current assets                                                  61,158        40,628         48.2


total assets                                                   221,996       161,427         37.0




eur thousand
                                            note            31.12.2016     31.12.2015   change, %
equity and liabilities


shareholders' equity
share capital                                                    3,528          3,528
share premium account                                            1,118          1,118
other reserves                                                 112,291       105,291           6.6
retained earnings                                               21,649        20,894           3.6
profit for the period                                          -15,887           690
shareholders' equity                          16               122,700       131,522          -6.7


current provisions                            17                 1,199             0


liabilities
long-term liabilities                         18                36,909           177      20,725.5
short-term liabilities                        19                61,189        29,728        105.8
total liabilities                                               98,098        29,905        228.0


total equity and liabilities                                   221,996       161,427         37.5




                                         basware annual report 2016 – 75

parent company cash flow statement (fas)
1.1.-31.12.2016
eur thousand
                                                                                         1.1.-31.12.2016   1.1.-31.12.2015
cash flow from operating activities


result for the period                                                                           -15,887               690


adjustments for result
planned depreciations                                                                             6,674             6,285
proceeds from sale of non-current assets                                                            350                 3
unrealized exchange gains and losses                                                              1,221              -585
finance income and expenses                                                                      -1,049            -1,355
income taxes                                                                                        115              -826


working capital changes                                                                           7,703             2,962


interest paid                                                                                      -121              -209
interest received                                                                                 1,441             2,740
other financial items in operating activities                                                      -325                82
income taxes paid                                                                                 1,031             1,031
net cash from operating activities                                                                1,154            10,818


cash flow from investing activities
purchase of tangible and intangible assets                                                      -13,424           -11,764
proceeds from sale of tangible and intangible assets                                                125                 0
acquisition of subsidiaries and businesses                                                      -30,493           -26,144
investment made to a joint venture                                                               -3,037            -1,957
repayment of loan receivables                                                                     3,039            38,015
addition / deduction of cash equivalents                                                         -3,447             3,721
cash flows used in investing activities                                                         -47,237             1,871


cash flow before financing activities                                                           -46,083            12,689


cash flow from investing activities
proceeds from current borrowings                                                                 10,548            12,500
repayment of current borrowings                                                                  -1,667           -14,167
addition / deduction of current borrowings                                                        7,497            -4,621
proceeds from borrowings                                                                         36,732                 0
repayments of borrowings                                                                              0            -1,667
dividends paid                                                                                        0            -1,415
net cash used in financing activities                                                            53,110            -9,369


net change in cash and cash equivalents                                                           7,028             3,319


cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of period                                             18,455            15,136
cash and cash equivalents at the end of period                                                   25,483            18,455




                                                       basware annual report 2016 – 76

notes to the parent company financial
statements (fas)

1. accounting principles
basware corporation’s financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the finnish accounting act.

transactions in foreign currencies
transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rates prevailing at the transaction dates. at the end of the
accounting period, the unsettled balances on foreign currency receivables and liabilities are valued at the rates of exchange
prevailing at the end of the accounting period. foreign exchange gains and losses related to normal business operations are
entered in the appropriate income statement account before operating profit and foreign exchange gains and losses
associated with financing are entered as a net amount under financial income and expenses.

revenue recognition
net sales are generated by automation services, customer support, professional services, and license sales. when net
sales are calculated, sales revenue is adjusted for exchange rate differences of foreign currency sales.

revenue recognition of product sales requires that there is a binding agreement of the sale, the product has been delivered,
proceeds from the transaction can be reliably specified, the financial gain will benefit the company with sufficient probability,
and significant benefits and risks related to ownership or rights of use of the product have been transferred to the buyer.

service revenue is recognized at the time of delivery. start-up fees are recognized as revenue when the work related to the
start-up procedure has been completed and the customer has been connected to the service environment. transaction
revenue is recognized on the basis of actual transaction volumes and use charges on a monthly basis on the basis of the
existence of an agreement. the alliance fees of financing-related added value services are recognised as revenue when the
related obligations have been performed.

license agreements with a right of return or conditions related to the product's functionality or implementation project are
recognized as revenue once the right of return has expired or the above-mentioned conditions have been fulfilled.
maintenance revenue is allocated over the contract period.

revenue and costs of fixed-price consulting projects are recognized as revenue and expenditure on the basis of the
percentage of completion when the outcome of the project can be reliably estimated. the degree of completion of the project
is specified as the proportion of hours worked of the estimated total number of hours. if the resulting costs and recognized
profits exceed the amount invoiced for the transaction, the different is presented in “trade and other receivables” on the
balance sheet. if the resulting costs and recognized profits are lower the invoicing for the transaction, the difference is
presented in “trade payables and other liabilities” on the balance sheet. when it is likely that the total costs required for
completing the project exceed the total revenue from the transaction, the expected loss is recognized as an expense
immediately.

other operating income
other operating income includes proceeds from the sale of business operations and property, plant and equipment, rental
income, and public subsidies to the extent that they are not related to capitalized r&d projects.

research and development costs
research expenses are booked as an expense as they are incurred. costs related to the adoption of new technology or
development of a new generation of projects are capitalized and recognized and amortized over the useful life of 3–5 years.
in determining the useful life, the obsolescence of technology and the typical life cycle of products in the industry are taken
into consideration. amortization starts once the product is ready for commercial utilization. maintenance of existing products
and minor enhancements are recognized as they are incurred. public subsidies related to research and development are
recognized through profit or loss in the periods during which the corresponding costs are recognized as expenses.

pensions
the statutory pension coverage for employees is provided through insurance policies taken out with a pension institution. the
statutory pension expenses are recognized as expenses in the year they are incurred.

intangible assets
intangible assets are recognized at the original acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation according to plan and possible
impairment. public subsidies related to the acquisition of an intangible asset are deducted from the acquisition cost of the
asset and recognized as income by reducing the depreciation charge of the asset they are related to. the expected useful
lives of intangible assets are 3–10 years.



                                                basware annual report 2016 – 77

tangible assets
tangible assets are recognized in the balance sheet at the original acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation. the useful
lives of tangible assets are 3–5 years.

provisions
a provision is recognized when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is
probable that the obligation will have to be settled, and the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.

leases
leasing payments are recognized as annual expenses.

derivates
derivatives are valued at fair value and unrealized losses are recognized in the income statement in accordance with
prudence principle. company has not applied hedge accounting.

income taxes
income taxes have been recognized in accordance with finnish tax legislation.


2. net sales
eur thousand
                                                                                    1.1.-31.12.2016             1.1.-31.12.2015
net sales by business branches
licence sales                                                                                4,692                       7,043
customer support                                                                            29,505                      30,935
professional services                                                                       11,139                      10,608
automation services                                                                         35,287                      29,530
total                                                                                       80,623                      78,116


net sales by business areas
finland                                                                                     49,871                      49,108
export                                                                                      30,752                      29,008
total                                                                                       80,623                      78,116



3. other operating income
eur thousand
                                                                                    1.1.-31.12.2016             1.1.-31.12.2015
other operating income                                                                           3                            49
other operating income                                                                           3                            49



4. materials and services
eur thousand
                                                                                    1.1.-31.12.2016             1.1.-31.12.2015
purchases during the financial period                                                       -9,901                      -9,895
change in inventories                                                                          -30                            -13
services purchased                                                                          -4,413                      -2,794
total                                                                                      -14,344                     -12,702



5. personnel and employee benefits expenses
eur thousand
                                                                                    1.1.-31.12.2016             1.1.-31.12.2015
personnel expenses
salaries paid to ceo and the board of directors                                             -1,057                           -621
salaries paid to other personnel                                                           -31,410                     -30,268
pension expenses                                                                            -4,937                      -4,590
other personnel expenses                                                                    -2,081                      -1,789
total                                                                                      -39,485                     -37,268

salaries and fees paid to each member of the management are detailed in note 7 to the consolidated financial statement.

                                                  basware annual report 2016 – 78

number of personnel
                                                                                1.1.-31.12.2016   1.1.-31.12.2015
personnel average for the period                                                         1,079             1,003
personnel at the end of the period                                                       1,098             1,008




6. depreciation and write-offs
eur thousand
                                                                                1.1.-31.12.2016   1.1.-31.12.2015
intangible assets                                                                       -6,317            -5,853
tangible assets                                                                           -357              -432
total                                                                                   -6,674            -6,285




7. other operating expenses
eur thousand
                                                                                1.1.-31.12.2016   1.1.-31.12.2015
other operating expenses
rents                                                                                   -1,787            -1,947
non-statutory employee benefits                                                           -638              -436
travelling                                                                              -1,280            -1,243
marketing                                                                               -3,530            -2,822
it and telephone                                                                        -1,136            -1,365
auditor fees                                                                              -576              -307
other expenses                                                                         -26,793           -16,208
total                                                                                  -35,740           -24,330


audit fees                                                                                -247              -227
tax advices                                                                               -110               -56
other fees and services                                                                   -219               -25
audit fees total                                                                          -576              -307




8. financial income and expenses
eur thousand
                                                                                1.1.-31.12.2016   1.1.-31.12.2015
other interest and financial income
from group companies                                                                     6,499             2,556
from others                                                                                170               203
other interest and financial income                                                      6,670             2,759


interest and financial expenses
to group companies                                                                      -6,491              -791
from others                                                                               -333              -305
other interest and financial expenses total                                             -6,824            -1,096


total                                                                                     -154             1,662




                                              basware annual report 2016 – 79

9. income taxes
eur thousand
                                                                                     1.1.-31.12.2016              1.1.-31.12.2015
income taxes on the financial period
income taxes on actual business                                                                -103                           -573
income taxes from previous financial periods                                                    -12                          1,398
total                                                                                          -115                            826




10. intangible assets

intangible assets 2016
eur thousand
                          development          intangible    goodwill/merger     other long-term       assets, unfinished     total
                                 costs             rights               loss        investments                  projects
acquisition cost 1.1               23,016          11,126              17,625                  509                 16,857    69,132

additions                              1,300        2,098                                                           11,015   14,413

decreases                                 0                                                    -445                     0      -445

reclassifications                      4,225        1,350                                                           -5,575        0
between items
acquisition cost                   28,540          14,574              17,625                   63                 22,297    83,100
31.12


cumulative                        -18,573           -6,500            -16,711                  -342                     0    -42,126
amortization 1.1
amortization                       -2,978           -2,405               -914                  304                            -5,993

cumulative                        -21,551           -8,905            -17,625                   -38                     0    -48,119
amortization 31.12


book value                             6,990        5,669                  0                    25                 22,297    34,981
31.12.2016




intangible assets 2015
eur thousand
                          development          intangible    goodwill/merger     other long-term       assets, unfinished     total
                                 costs             rights               loss        investments                  projects
acquisition cost 1.1               22,674           8,738              17,625                  509                  8,664    58,210

additions                               221           538                                                          10,163    10,922

reclassifications                       121         1,850                                                           -1,971        0
between items
acquisition cost                   23,016          11,126              17,625                  509                 16,857    69,132
31.12


cumulative                        -15,931           -4,996            -15,035                  -311                     0    -36,273
amortization 1.1
amortization                       -2,642           -1,504             -1,676                   -31                           -5,853

cumulative                        -18,573           -6,500            -16,711                  -342                     0    -42,126
amortization 31.12


book value                             4,443        4,626                914                   167                 16,857    27,006
31.12.2015




                                                   basware annual report 2016 – 80

11. tangible assets

tangible assets 2016
eur thousand                                             machinery and              other tangible       total
                                                            equipment                       assets
acquisition cost 1.1                                              6,621                        122        6,743

additions                                                           409                         11         419

decreases                                                          -865                          0         -865

acquisition cost 31.12                                            6,165                        133        6,298



cumulative amortization 1.1                                       -6,020                         0       -6,020

decreases                                                           722

amortization                                                       -357                                    -357

cumulative amortization 31.12                                     -5,656                         0       -5,656



book value 31.12.2016                                               509                        133         642




tangible assets 2015
eur thousand                                             machinery and              other tangible       total
                                                            equipment                       assets
acquisition cost 1.1                                              6,227                        114        6,342

additions                                                           394                         10         404

decreases                                                                                       -3           -3

acquisition cost 31.12                                            6,622                        122        6,743



cumulative amortization 1.1                                       -5,588                         0       -5,588

amortization                                                       -432                                    -432

cumulative amortization 31.12                                     -6,020                         0       -6,020



book value 31.12.2015                                               602                        122         723




12. investments
eur thousand
                                                                           31.12.2016                31.12.2015
shares in group companies
book value 1.1.                                                               57,698                    29,992
increase                                                                      49,156                    27,706
disposals                                                                      -9,232                         0
book value 31.12.                                                             97,621                    57,698


balance sheet value 31.12                                                     97,621                    57,698


other shares
book value 1.1.                                                                   38                         38
book value 31.12.                                                                 38                         38


share of investment in a joint venture
book value 1.1.                                                                 1,957                         0
increase                                                                        3,037                     1,957
book value 31.12.                                                               4,994                     1,957


receivables from group companies
loan receivables from group companies                                         21,764                    32,742


investments total                                                            124,418                    92,436




                                         basware annual report 2016 – 81

shares in subsidiaries
                                           domicile              country                     parent company holding, %
basware international oy                        espoo               finland                                         100

basware gmbh                                düsseldorf             germany                                          100

basware ab                                  stockholm               sweden                                          100

basware b.v.                               amsterdam                    the                                         100
                                                                netherlands

basware a/s                                    herlev              denmark                                          100

basware, inc.                                delaware          united states                                        100

basware sas                                      paris               france                                         100

basware as                                       oslo               norway                                          100

basware pty ltd                            chatswood               australia                                        100

basware india private limited              chandigarh                  india                                         99

basware belgium nv                               aalst              belgium                                          99

basware srl                                       iasi             romania                                          100

basware holdings ltd.                          london        united kingdom                                         100


foreign branches
the parent company has branches in india, chandigarh (reg.no. f03347 ) and russia, moscow (reg.no. 16926.1


13. inventories
eur thousand
                                                                                31.12.2016                   31.12.2015
raw materials and consumables                                                           0                           30
total                                                                                   0                           30




14. non-current receivables
eur thousand
                                                                                31.12.2016                   31.12.2015
rent deposits                                                                         402                          398
accrued employee expenses                                                             395                          236
total                                                                                 797                          634




                                            basware annual report 2016 – 82

15. current receivables
eur thousand
                                                                              31.12.2016   31.12.2015
accounts receivables                                                               6,718        6,244


receivables from group companies
accounts receivables                                                               3,002        1,405
interest receivables                                                                360          306
loan receivables                                                                 13,614         7,217
other receivables                                                                  8,572        2,028
total                                                                            25,547       10,957


receivables from others
prepaid expenses and accrued income                                                3,131        4,461
short term deposits                                                                   0            0
receivables from joint venture                                                      200          417
other receivables                                                                    79           65
total                                                                              3,410        4,943


current receivables total                                                        35,675       22,143


prepaid expenses and accrued income
tax receivables                                                                       0         1,309
accrued employee expenses                                                            12          167
other prepaid expenses and accrued income                                          3,119        2,985
total                                                                              3,131        4,461




                                            basware annual report 2016 – 83

16. shareholders' equity
eur thousand
                                                                                  31.12.2016             31.12.2015
share capital 1.1.                                                                     3,528                  3,528
share capital 31.12.                                                                   3,528                  3,528


share premium account 1.1.                                                             1,118                  1,118
share premium account 31.12.                                                           1,118                  1,118


equity 31.12.                                                                          4,647                  4,647


invested non-restricted equity 1.1.                                                  105,291               105,339
decrease of treasury shares                                                              -65                    -48
share issue                                                                            7,065                     0
invested non-restricted equity 31.12.                                                112,291               105,291


retained earnings 1.1.                                                                21,584                22,261
dividend payment                                                                           0                 -1,415
decrease of treasury shares                                                               65                    48
profit for the period                                                                -15,887                   690
retained earnings 31.12.                                                               5,762                21,584


non-restricted equity 31.12.                                                         118,053               126,875


shareholders' equity 31.12.                                                          122,700               131,521


specification of distributable funds
profit for the period                                                                -15,887                   690
retained earnings                                                                     21,649                20,894
other distributable funds                                                            112,291               105,291
development expenses, activated*                                                     -29,295                     0
distributable funds                                                                   88,758               126,875

according to accounting act 5:8§ activated development expenses are deducted from distributable funds.




17. provisions
eur thousand
                                                                                        2016                  2015
restructuring provisions
book value 1.1.                                                                            0                     0
increases                                                                              1,199                     0
book value 31.12.                                                                      1,199                     0




18. non-current liabilities
eur thousand
                                                                                  31.12.2016             31.12.2015
loans from financial institutions                                                     36,732                     0
debts to group companies                                                                 177                   177
non-current liabilities total                                                         36,909                   177




                                            basware annual report 2016 – 84

19. current liabilities
eur thousand
                                                                                       31.12.2016                   31.12.2015
accounts payable                                                                             4,602                        3,171


liabilities to group companies
accounts payable                                                                             1,047                         860
other debts                                                                                34,791                        14,790
total                                                                                      35,838                        15,650


liabilities to other
loans from financial institutions                                                          10,548                         1,667
other debts                                                                                  2,050                        1,959
accrued expenses and deferred income                                                         8,151                        7,281
total                                                                                      20,749                        10,906


current liabilities total                                                                  61,189                        29,728


accrued expenses and deferred income
accrued exployee expenses                                                                    6,363                        6,496
other accrued expenes                                                                        1,788                         622
tax liability income tax                                                                         0                         163
total                                                                                        8,151                        7,281



20. commitments and contingent liabilities
eur thousand
                                                                                        31.12.2016                  31.12.2015
own guarantees
business mortgages of own debt                                                               1,200                       1,200
guarantees                                                                                     273                         336


commitments on behalf of subsidiaries
guarantees                                                                                     100                             37


other own contingent liabilities
leasing liabilities
current lease liabilities                                                                      194                         185
lease liabilities maturing in 15 years                                                         136                         194
total                                                                                          329                         378


rental liabilities
current rental liabilities                                                                   1,721                       3,333
rental liabilities maturing in 1- 5 years                                                    4,671                       4,546
rental liabilities maturing over 5 years                                                         0                       1,019
total                                                                                        6,392                       8,898


other own contingent liabilities total                                                       6,721                       9,276


commitments and contingent liabilities total                                                 8,293                      10,849

value added tax is only included in vehicle leasing liabilities. the other liabilities are exclusive of value added tax. the
lease agreements are ordinary lease agreements. the finance lease agreements are ordinary finance lease agreements
and have no associated leaseback clauses. the group does not have pledges, mortgages or guarantees on behalf of
external parties.




                                                basware annual report 2016 – 85

board's dividend proposal
at the end of 2016, the group parent company's distributable funds are eur 88 758 thousand.

basware's board of directors proposes to the annual general meeting that dividend is not paid 2016 (2015: eur 0.00). no
substantial changes have take place in the company's financial position after the end of the financial period.

in espoo, finland, january 31, 2017



hannu vaajoensuu, chairman of the board

ilkka sihvo, vice chairman of the board

tuija soanjärvi

anssi vanjoki

michael ingelög

david bateman

vesa tykkyläinen, ceo

auditor's note

our auditor's report has been issued today.

in helsinki, finland, january 31, 2017

ernst & young

authorized public accountant firm



terhi mäkinen

authorized public accountant




                                              basware annual report 2016 – 86

auditor's report

to the annual general meeting of basware corporation


report on the audit of financial statements

opinion

we have audited the financial statements of basware corporation oyj (business identity code 0592542-4) for the year ended
31 december, 2016. the financial statements comprise the consolidated balance sheet, statement of comprehensive income,
statement of changes in equity, statement of cash flows and notes, including a summary of significant accounting policies, as
well as the parent company’s balance sheet, income statement, statement of cash flows and notes.

in our opinion,

  the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the group’s financial position as well as its financial
  performance and its cash flows in accordance with international financial reporting standards (ifrs) as adopted by the
  eu.
  the financial statements give a true and fair view of the parent company’s financial performance and financial position in
  accordance with the laws and regulations governing the preparation of financial statements in finland and comply with
  statutory requirements.
basis for opinion

we conducted our audit in accordance with good auditing practice in finland. our responsibilities under good auditing
practice are further described in the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of financial statements section of our report.

we are independent of the parent company and of the group companies in accordance with the ethical requirements that are
applicable in finland and are relevant to our audit, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with
these requirements.

we believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

key audit matters

key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial
statements of the current period. these matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a
whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

we have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section
of our report, including in relation to these matters. accordingly, our audit included the performance of procedures designed to
respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements. the results of our audit
procedures, including the procedures performed to address the matters below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the
accompanying financial statements.

we have also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls. this includes consideration of whether there
was evidence of management bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud

goodwill impairment assessment

refer to accounting principles (note 1) and goodwill (note 4)

at the balance sheet date, the value of goodwill amounted to eur 97 million representing 43 % of total assets and 73 % of
total equity. we focused on this area due to the size of the goodwill balance and because the management’s annual
impairment test involves judgments about the future results of the business and the discount rates applied to future cash flow
forecasts.

our audit procedures included amongst other;

  comparing the groups’ accounting policies of impairment testing with applicable accounting standards.
  involving valuation specialists to assist us in evaluating the assumptions and methodologies used by the group including
  those related to forecast revenue, cost and discount rates by adjusting for future events and corroborating the key market
  related assumptions to external data.
  reviewing the sensitivity in the available headroom by cash generating unit and focusing on whether any reasonably


                                                 basware annual report 2016 – 87

  possible change in assumptions could cause the carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount,
  comparing the historical forecasting of the group with actual outcome and comparing projections to the latest board
  approved budgets.
  checking the mathematical accuracy of the underlying calculations.
we compared the groups’ disclosures related to impairment tests in note 4 in the financial statements with presentation
requirements in applicable accounting standards.

recognition of revenue

refer to accounting principles (note 1) and operating segments (note 2)

we focused on this area as a key audit matter due to the risk of incorrect timing of revenue recognition. revenue is
recognized when the risk and rewards of the underlying products or services have been transferred to the customer. due to
the multitude and variety of contractual terms across the group’s markets, there is a risk that revenue may be misstated. the
group focuses on revenue as a key performance measure.

our audit procedures included amongst other:

  comparing the group’s accounting policies over revenue recognition with applicable accounting standards.
  obtaining understanding of the revenue recognition processes and their consistent application and testing group’s controls
  on revenue recognition.
  assessing the correct period for the revenue recognized by testing cut-off with substantive analytical procedures
  supplemented with test of transactions either side of the balance sheet date.
we compared the group’s disclosures over revenue recognition in note 2 with presentation requirements in applicable
accounting standards

acquisition of verian

refer to accounting principles (note 1) and acquired businesses (note 3)

 during the financial year 2016 group acquired verian for purchase consideration of eur 32 million. this was considered a
significant purchase for the group.

we focused on this area as a key audit matter as the accounting for transaction was complex and included judgmental
matters, like determining the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities, in particular determining the allocation of purchase
consideration to separately identifiable intangible assets such as customer contracts and relationships and goodwill.

our procedures included, amongst others:

  comparing the group’s accounting policies over business combinations with requirements in applicable accounting
  standards.
  evaluating the assumptions and methodology of management’s value in use -model, such as forecast revenues, operating
  costs and contributory assets, which were used to determine the value of verian contracts and relationships to the group.
  engaging valuation specialists to compare these valuation assumptions with external benchmarks (for example discount
  rates) and to assess underlying assumptions based on our knowledge of the group and its industries
we compared the groups’ disclosures related to business acquisitions in note 3 in the financial statements with presentation
requirements in applicable accounting standards.

responsibilities of the board of directors and the managing director for the financial statements

 the board of directors and the managing director are responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial statements
that give a true and fair view in accordance with international financial reporting standards (ifrs) as adopted by the eu,
and of financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the
preparation of financial statements in finland and comply with statutory requirements. the board of directors and the
managing director are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of
financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

in preparing the financial statements, the board of directors and the managing director are responsible for assessing the
parent company’s and the group’s ability to continue as going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters relating to going
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. the financial statements are prepared using the going concern
basis of accounting unless there is an intention to liquidate the parent company or the group or cease operations, or there is
no realistic alternative but to do so.


                                                 basware annual report 2016 – 88

auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of financial statements

our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance on whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. reasonable assurance
is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with good auditing practice will
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken
on the basis of the financial statements.

as part of an audit in accordance with good auditing practice, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional
skepticism throughout the audit. we also:

  identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and
  perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a
  basis for our opinion. the risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting
  from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal
  control.
  obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in
  the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the parent company’s or the
  group’s internal control.
  evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
  disclosures made by management.
  conclude on the appropriateness of the board of directors’ and the managing director’s use of the going concern basis of
  accounting and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions
  that may cast significant doubt on the parent company’s or the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. if we
  conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related
  disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. our conclusions are
  based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. however, future events or conditions may
  cause the company to cease to continue as a going concern.
  evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether
  the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events so that the financial statements give a true and
  fair view.
  obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within
  the group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. we are responsible for the direction, supervision
  and performance of the group audit. we remain solely responsible for our audit opinion



we communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.

we also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to
bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.

from the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most
significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. we describe
these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in
extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.

other reporting requirements

other information

the board of directors and the managing director are responsible for the other information. the other information comprises
information included in the report of the board of directors and in the annual report, but does not include the financial
statements and our report thereon. we obtained the report of the board of directors prior to the date of the auditor’s report,
and the annual report is expected to be made available to us after the date of the auditor’s report.

our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information.

in connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above and,


                                                 basware annual report 2016 – 89

in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge
obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. with respect to report of the board of directors, our
responsibility also includes considering whether the report of the board of directors has been prepared in accordance with
the applicable laws and regulations.

 in our opinion, the information in the report of the board of directors is consistent with the information in the financial
statements and the report of the board of directors has been prepared in accordance with the applicable laws and
regulations.

if, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement in the information included in the
report of the board of directors, we are required to report this fact. we have nothing to report in this regard.in

helsinki, finland, january 31, 2017

ernst & young oy

authorized public accountant firm

terhi mäkinen

authorized public accountant




                                                 basware annual report 2016 – 90

key figures (ifrs)

eur thousand
                              1-3/2016   4-6/2016   7-9/2016   10-12/2016   1-3/2015      4-6/2015   7-9/2015   10-12/2015
net sales                      34,125     38,948     35,295        40,211    34,041        36,590     33,569       39,210


other operating income              0          0          0            4            19          3          -3          85


materials and services          -3,611     -3,959     -3,576       -4,600        -4,009     -4,437     -3,852       -4,098
employee benefits              -23,848    -29,068    -24,070      -27,614    -20,811       -23,221    -19,238      -22,456
expenses
depreciation and                -1,848     -2,129     -2,185       -2,391        -1,658     -1,822     -1,827       -1,919
amortization
other operating expenses        -7,533     -8,792     -7,682       -9,623        -6,449     -8,870     -7,654       -6,517
operating result                -2,716     -4,999     -2,218       -4,014        1,132      -1,757       996         4,305
%                                                                            3,30 %        -4,80 %    3,00 %      11,00 %


financial income                  231      1,670      2,554          744           565        458        609          556
financial expenses               -662      -1,668     -3,720         709          -841       -319         87          -605
share of results of a joint      -626       -626       -544          -373            0       -444       -205          -975
venture
result before tax               -3,773     -5,622     -3,928       -2,933          856      -2,062     1,488         3,281
%                                                                            2,52 %        -5,60 %    4,40 %       8,40 %


income tax expense                816      1,094        217          -188         -261        347       -240          -327
result for the                  -2,957     -4,528     -3,711       -3,121          595      -1,715     1,249         2,954
period
%                                                                            1,75 %        -4,70 %    3,70 %       7,50 %




                                               basware annual report 2016 – 91

group key financial performance indicators
eur thousand
                                                     2016        2015              2014       2013       2012
net sales                                      148,580         143,410          127,674    123,349    113,699
growth of net sales, %                          3,60 %         12,30 %           3,50 %     8,50 %     5,50 %
ebitda                                           -5,394         11,902            11,354    10,383     14,801
% of net sales                                                  8,30 %           8,90 %     8,40 %    13,00 %
adjusted ebitda                                      2,063      12,121            11,354    10,383     14,801
% of net sales                                  1,40 %          8,30 %           8,90 %     8,40 %    13,00 %
operating result                                -13,946          4,676            4,325      3,331      8,308
growth of operating result, %                                   8,10 %          29,80 %    -59,90 %   -32,30 %
% of net sales                                                  3,30 %           3,40 %     2,70 %     7,30 %
result before tax                               -16,256          3,563            4,328       3,284      8,357
% of net sales                                                  2,50 %           3,40 %     2,70 %     7,40 %
result for the period                           -14,318          3,083            2,959       2,605      5,863
% of net sales                                                  2,10 %           2,30 %     2,10 %     5,20 %


return on equity, %                            -10,50 %         2,20 %           2,50 %     2,60 %     5,80 %
return on investment, %                         -6,80 %         3,60 %           4,40 %     3,90 %     8,20 %
interest bearing liabilities                     47,280          1,667            5,000       8,632    10,524
cash assets                                      35,755         33,238           28,954     13,218     34,519
gearing, %                                      8,70 %        -22,40 %          -38,60 %    -4,70 %   -23,80 %
equity ratio, %                                58,50 %         79,10 %          82,80 %    77,10 %    77,60 %
total assets                                   227,043         178,545          168,781    127,043    129,758


gross investments *                              51,882         39,971             5,821    20,733     19,606
% of net sales                                 34,90 %         27,90 %           4,60 %    16,80 %    17,20 %


research and development costs, total            24,274         20,748            17,680     18,184     17,884
% of net sales                                 16,30 %         14,50 %          13,80 %    14,70 %    15,70 %
r&d personnel at end of period                        419         373               332        370        351


personnel expenses                              104,600         85,726            77,779     76,919     65,590
personnel average for period                         1,811       1,591             1,466      1,485      1,330
personnel at end of period                           1,889       1,648             1,493      1,472      1,423
growth of personnel, %                         14,60 %         10,40 %           1,40 %     3,40 %    20,40 %

*) includes aquisitions and capitalized r&d costs.




                                              basware annual report 2016 – 92

group share indicators
eur thousand
                                             2016             2015                2014          2013          2012
earnings per share, undiluted                -1.00             0.22                0.22          0.20          0.46
earnings per share, diluted                  -1.00             0.22                0.22          0.20          0.46
equity per share                              9.26             9.97                9.88          7.62          7.84
dividend per share                           0,00*            0,00*                0.10          0.23          0.23
dividend per profit, %                     0,00 %           0,00 %           45,10 %        113,40 %       50,40 %
effective dividends, %                     0,00 %           0,00 %               0,20 %       0,90 %        1,10 %
price/earnings ratio (p/e)                  -36.24           171.31              184.31       123.45          44.34


share price performance, share
issue adjusted
lowest share price                           30.48            31.80               23.50         16.75         16.70
highest share price                          40.90            47.80               42.21         25.60         24.00
average share price                          36.22            39.20               35.65         20.35         20.84
closing share price                          36.30            37.32               41.05         25.03         20.25


market value of shares at end of       520,662,298      530,736,266      577,640,124      321,771,012   260,182,550
period


share issue adjusted number of           1,931,525        3,156,826        4,792,273        1,723,866     1,514,703
traded shares
% of average share number                 13,51 %          22,30 %           36,10 %         13,40 %       11,80 %


number of shares**
- end of the period                     14,343,314       14,152,770       14,146,426       12,931,229    12,931,229
- average during the period             14,293,754       14,150,954       13,286,327       12,848,540    12,836,966
- average during the period, diluted    14,313,442       14,173,167       13,297,962       12,848,540    12,836,966

*) boards proposal to the annual general meeting of shareholders

**) excluding treasury shares.




                                               basware annual report 2016 – 93

calculation of key indicators
return on equity (roe), %
(profit or loss before taxes - taxes) x 100
shareholders' equity (average)

return on investment (roi), %
(profit before taxes + interest and other financial expenses) x 100
balance sheet total - non-interest bearing liabilities (average)

gearing, %
(interest-bearing liabilities - interest-bearing assets) x 100
shareholders' equity

equity ratio, %
shareholders' equity x 100
balance sheet total - advance payments received

earnings per share
profit for the period
adjusted average number of shares during the period

equity per share
shareholders' equity
adjusted number of shares at the end of the financial period - own shares

dividend per share
total dividend
adjusted number of shares at the end of the financial period - own shares

dividend/profit, %
dividend per share x 100
earnings per share

effective dividend yield, %
dividend per share x 100
adjusted share price at the end of the financial period

price-earnings ratio (p/e)
adjusted share price at the end of the financial periodi
earnings per share

adjusted ebitda

adjusted ebitda is reported excluding any adjustments related to alliance fees, acquisitions and disposals, restructuring and
efficiency measures, impairment losses and litigation fees and settlements.




                                                  basware annual report 2016 – 94

share and shareholders
share
basware shares are listed on nasdaq helsinki ltd. the company has one series of shares, with the trading code
bas1v. the basware share has been listed on the helsinki stock exchange (nasdaq helsinki ltd.) since february 29,
2000. the listing price of the share was eur 5.70. basware was transferred to the main list of the stock exchange on
october 19, 2004.

at the end of 2016, the total number of shares issued by basware was 14,401,936 (14,221,229). the book counter value
per share is eur 0.30. each share confers one vote in the general meeting of shareholders, and all shares carry an equal
right to dividend.

share capital
at the end of 2016, basware corporation's share capital was eur 3,528,368.70. (eur 3,528,368.70)

share price performance and trading
during 2016, the highest price of the share was eur 40.90 (eur 47.80), the lowest was eur 30.48 (eur 31.80) and the
closing price was eur 36.30 (eur 37.32). the average price of the share was eur 36.22 (eur 39.20) during the period.

a total of 1,931,525 (3,156,826) shares were traded during the period, equivalent to 13.5 percent (22.3%) of the average
number of shares. market capitalization with the period’s closing price on december 31, 2016, was eur 520,662,298
(eur 530,736,266).

the total amount of own shares held by the company on december 31, 2016 was 58,622 shares (68,459 shares),
representing approximately 0.4 % (0.5 %) of all of outstanding shares. the group repurchased 558 own shares from the
markets for remuneration of the board of directors.

incentive schemes
additional information on the share-based incentive schemes is available on the company's investor webpages at
www.basware.com/investors.

shareholders
basware had 12,620 (13,164) shareholders on december 31, 2016 including nominee-registered holdings (10). nominee-
registered holdings accounted for 37.0 percent (30.3%) of the total number of shares.



distribution of holdings by number of shares, december 31, 2016
                                                      number of holders                  shares, pcs              votes, %
1-100                                                              10,418                      255,398                     1.8

101-1,000                                                           2,008                      546,253                     3.8

1,001-10,000                                                          143                      328,803                     2.3

10,001-100,000                                                         29                    1,165,544                     8.1

100,001+                                                               22                   12,105,938                  84.1

total                                                              12,620                   14,401,936                 100.0




distribution by sector, december 31, 2016
                                                             number of holders              shares, pcs           votes, %
private companies                                                             463                 670,109                  7.4

financial and insurance institutions                                           32               2,040,063               22.5

public sector organizations                                                     8               2,243,740               24.7

non-profit organizations                                                       33                  45,155                  0.5

households                                                                  12,028              3,855,527               42.5

foreign                                                                        56                 215,317                  2.4



nominee-registered                                                             10               5,332,025               37.0

total                                                                       12,620              9,069,911              100.0




                                              basware annual report 2016 – 95

major shareholders, december 31, 2016
                                                                                        shares, pcs          votes, %
1. ilmarinen mutual pension insurance company                                               1,610,278             11.2

2. sihvo ilkka juhani                                                                        885,300               6.1

3. eräkangas kirsi maria                                                                     694,800               4.8

eräkangas kirsi maria                                                                        496,400               3.4

eräkangas, lotta                                                                             198,400               1.4

4. vaajoensuu hannu                                                                          659,657               4.6

vaajoensuu hannu                                                                             309,357               2.1

havacment oy                                                                                 266,500               1.9

vaajoensuu, matias                                                                            83,800               0.6

5. op-delta-fund                                                                             425,000               3.0

6. perttunen, sakari                                                                         384,375               2.7

7. op-focus-fund                                                                             315,897               2.2

8. fondita nordic micro cap                                                                  311,000               2.2

9. veritas pension insurance company ltd.                                                    281,168               2.0

10. the state pension fund                                                                   256,000               1.8

11. pöllänen antti                                                                           233,322               1.6

12. op-finland small firms fund                                                              223,534               1.6

13. swiss life luxembourg sa                                                                 196,000               1.4

14. perttunen, meimi                                                                         145,107               1.0

15. fondita nordic small cap investment fund                                                 140,000               1.0

16. pohjoismaat plus                                                                         135,570               0.9

17. danske invest finnish small cap fund                                                      89,688               0.6

18. vaajoensuu petra                                                                          83,800               0.6

19. danske invest finnish institutional equity fund                                           79,700               0.6

20. säästöpankki kotimaa                                                                      71,209               0.5

20 largest shareholders total                                                               7,221,405             50.0

nominee registered shares                                                                   5,332,025             37.0

others                                                                                      1,848,506             12.8

total                                                                                      14,401,936            100.0




ownership of the board of directors and executive team, december 31, 2016
the members of the board of directors and executive team held in total 1,529,369 company shares on december 31,
2016. this amount accounted for 10.6 percent of the total number of shares and votes. the members of the board of
directors held shares on december 31, 2016 as follows: ilkka sihvo 885,300 shares (6.1 % of the total number of
shares), hannu vaajoensuu 575,857 shares (4.0 % of the total number of shares), michael ingelög 5,000 shares, tuija
soanjärvi 1,444 shares, anssi vanjoki 571 shares and david bateman 0 shares. the members of the executive team held
shares on december 31, 2016 as follows: vesa tykkyläinen 1 000 shares, tehseen dahya 53 116 shares, ilari nurmi 3 399
shares, niclas rosenlew 3 020 shares, matti rusi 2 325 shares, jane broberg 337 shares, lars madsen 0 shares, ad van
der poel 0 shares and paul taylor 0 shares.




                                                      basware annual report 2016 – 96

for shareholders

basware share
basware shares are listed on nasdaq helsinki ltd. the basware share has been listed on the helsinki stock exchange
(nasdaq helsinki ltd.) since february 29, 2000

trading code                         bas1v
isin code                            fi0009008403
book-counter value                   eur 0.30
listing price on february 29, 2000   eur 5.70
closing price on december 31, 2016   eur 36.30


annual general meeting
annual general meeting of basware corporation will be held on thursday, march 16, 2017 at 1:00 pm in helsinki, at the
address of aleksanterinkatu 44 a (2nd floor), helsinki, finland.

each shareholder, who is registered on march 6, 2017 in the shareholders' register of the company held by euroclear finland
ltd, has the right to participate in the general meeting.

a shareholder, who wishes to participate in the general meeting, shall register for the meeting no later than 4:00 pm (finnish
time) on march 8, 2016 by giving a prior notice of participation to the company. such notice can be given:

  at basware's investor webpages www.basware.com/annual-general-meeting; or
  by telephone at by telephone at +358 20 770 6867 on weekdays between 9:00 am and 4:00 pm; or on weekdays between
  9:00 am and 4:00 pm; or
  by regular mail to basware corporation, annual general meeting 2015, p.o. box 97, 02601 espoo, finland
the proposals for the decisions on the matters on the agenda of the general meeting as well as this notice are available on
basware's investor webpages at www.basware.com/annual-general-meeting.

dividend
board of directors proposes to the annual general meeting that no dividend be paid for 2016.

financial reporting in 2017
during 2017, basware corporation will publish financial information as follows:

  interim report january-march 2017 (q1) on friday, april 21, 2017
  half-year financial report january-june 2017 (q2) on wednesday, july 19, 2017
  interim report january-september 2017 (q3) on wednesday, october 18, 2017

interim reports are prepared according to the ias 34, interim financial reporting standard

all interim reports and stock exchange releases are available on basware's investor webpages
at www.basware.com/investors.

changes of address
if the address of a shareholder changes, we request sending a written notification of this to the bank where the shareholder's
book-entry account is held.




                                                    basware annual report 2016 – 97

basware is the global leader in providing networked
purchase-to-pay solutions, e-invoicing and innovative
financing services.



headquarters                                     investor relations
basware corporation                              for more information on the
pl 97, 02601 espoo, finland                      annual report and investor
for visitors: linnoitustie 2 b, cello building   communications:
                                                 sirje ahvenlampi-hyvönen
tel. +358 (0)9 879 171                           communications director
info.fi@basware.com
www.basware.com                                  tel. +358 50 557 3822
                                                 sirje.ahvenlampi@basware.com
                                                 www.basware.com/investors
