
                                                             sustainability report 2015-16




                             contents
                              contents
chairman & managing director’s message                                          3
message from director (hr)                                                      5
overview of the report                                                          6
key opportunities & threats                                                     6
positioning for the future                                                      7
report profile                                                                  9
organisational profile                                                         11
about the organisation                                                         11
primary products and services                                                  15
leadership at bhel                                                             18
bhel in india                                                                  20
nature of ownership and legal form                                             23
recognition of excellence                                                      23
corporate governance                                                           24
management approach                                                            24
governance structure at bhel                                                   24
board level committees                                                         24
addressing conflict of interest (coi)                                          26
constitution of highest governing body                                         26
code of business conduct                                                       28
working of the board                                                           28
ethics, transparency & integrity                                               29
mechanisms to analyse corruption and fraudulent practice risks                 30
monitoring mechanisms in place to avoid incidences of corruption               31
materiality and stakeholder engagement                                         33
stakeholder identification & engagement                                        34
process for defining report content and aspect boundaries                      38
economic performance                                                           40
management approach                                                            40
preparing for growth                                                           40
value addition statement                                                       42
financial performance highlights                                               43
indirect economic impact on society                                            45
supporting marginal supply chain partners                                      46



                                             1

  sustainability report 2015-16



our environmental performance                                                       47
management approach - sustainability                                                47
governance for sustainability                                                       47
sustainability framework                                                            47
responsible use of natural resources                                                48
energy                                                                              51
efforts in conservation of energy & energy efficiency                               56
green energy generation                                                             61
water usages & its conservation in our premises                                     64
biodiversity conservation within our premises                                       68
managing emissions and carbon footprint                                             69
responsible waste management                                                        76
initiatives taken to reduce environmental footprint of our products and services    79
management of significant spills                                                    81
compliance                                                                          81
environmental protection expenditure                                                81
our social performance                                                              83
management approach - labour practices & decent work                                83
profile of the employee base                                                        83
performance and career development                                                  84
labour/management relations                                                         84
occupational health & safety                                                        85
learning and development                                                            88
diversity and equal opportunity                                                     89
supplier assessment                                                                 89
management approach - human rights & anti-corruption                                90
protecting human rights in supply chain                                             90
human rights grievance mechanism                                                    91
performance on societal impact                                                      92
management approach – contribution towards overall wellbeing of the society         92
major csr initiatives undertaken                                                    93
compliance                                                                         103
product responsibility                                                             103
marketing communication                                                            105
customer orientation                                                               105
gri content index for ‘in accordance’ – comprehensive                              106




                                                2

                                                                sustainability report 2015-16




       chairman &
    managing director’s
        message



dear stakeholders,
it is my honour to present before you bhel's annual sustainability report which covers the
company's performance for the reporting period 2015-16. the report encompasses glimpses of
milestones in the path followed by the organisation on its journey to sustainable growth. in this
journey of 'creating bhel of tomorrow', it is our passionate endeavour to transform bhel into an
organisation which is 'responsive, robust and rising' to the expectations of its stakeholders.
at bhel over the last five decades, sustainability has been a way of life and the company has
endeavoured to work with the best efficiency and efficacy to be more productive and deliver the
desired results to its stakeholders. the same is evident in the company's mission statement. the
company strongly believes in the preservation of natural environment so that the benefits of today's
development are fruitfully enjoyed by future generations. bhel is also engaging with the society
through its social initiatives under csr aimed at community development, health & hygiene,
education, environment protection, disaster management, and talent up-gradation/skill
development.
the company is geared up to diversify into new business areas and strengthen the capabilities in
renewable technologies. we firmly believe that in the coming decades as the world focus shifts
more and more towards making the environment better, developing advanced technologies in
renewable sector and greener technology shall be the bedrock for our organisation. the quality &
reliability of bhel products is a testimony to its adherence to international standards by acquiring
and adapting some of the best technologies from leading companies in the world.
bhel is a major supplier of solar photo voltaic systems and having supplied more than 190+ mwp
cumulative shipments of pv cells, modules and systems, and helping our customers to generate
clean energy. going beyond just being a supplier of solar systems, we have commissioned a 5 mwp



                                               3

  sustainability report 2015-16



grid interactive solar power plant at our ranipet unit and 1.5 mwp solar power plant at our
hyderabad unit for in-house consumption and to move towards sustainable energy mix in our
operations. further, a 5 mwp solar plant has been installed recently at our tiruchirappalli unit. these
mwp scale solar power plants and other solar installations have generated around 15 million units of
energy in the last two years, resulting in carbon footprint avoidance of 14000 mt co2-e during the
same period. an in-house green coverage of about 4.7 million sq. metres and plantation of more
than 3 million trees till date is a testimony of the company's commitment towards a greener
environment.
the company has invested 3.36% of its turnover on r&d during 2015-16, which is the highest in the
indian engineering field. a large part of this investment is towards developing or improving
products or technologies aimed at sustainable growth. some of them are establishing capability for
800 mw advanced ultra- supercritical power plants, developing in-house capability to establish
grid connected solar power plant, developing efficient 3-phase propulsion systems for railways,
developing applications in the area of emerging technologies like high-temperature
superconducting (htsc) motor, fuel cell up to 2 kw rating, efficiency improvement of crystalline
silicon solar cells etc.
going forward, bhel will continue to tread the path of sustainability and contribute towards nation
building through supply and usages of cleaner technologies as well as promoting inclusive growth
through csr programme.




                                                                                    (atul sobti)




                                                 4

                                                                  sustainability report 2015-16




                 message from
                   director
                    (hr)

dear stakeholders,
for bhel, sustainability is about preserving our natural environment which is the source of our
survival & well being while creating value for the stakeholders in a socially acceptable manner. in
other words, as a responsible corporate citizen, we are committed to putting our all-out effort for
the preservation of environment while achieving higher growth in the organisation and sharing this
created value with the society in more inclusive manner. at bhel, we believe in doing business in a
sustainable manner and this ethos extends across the spheres of our business strategies,
environmental actions, social initiatives and corporate governance.
bhel has ingrained the triple bottom line approach for sustainable development in its business
processes. it has been creating value for its stakeholders since inception. its r&d efforts have always
been directed towards development and diffusion of technologies that reduces environmental
footprints. bhel has laid down an elaborate enabling framework for putting concerted efforts
towards strategic as well as ground level day to day work. 'sustainable development policy' is the
guiding force for all our csr & sustainability activities and execution at the unit level is steered by
the nodal officer for sustainability.
bhel continued to tread the path of sustainable development during 2015-16 as well and has taken
many initiatives which include setting up of a 1.5 mwp solar power plant at its hpep hyderabad unit.
further, a 5 mwp solar power plant is under installation at trichy unit which will further boost our
efforts in moving towards sustainable energy mix in our operations. towards achieving its objective
of promoting inclusive growth, the thrust on csr initiatives continued which resulted in creating
social infrastructure for the benefit of the community by and large. during 2015-16, an amount of
₹110.10 crores was spent on csr initiatives by bhel.
the specific efforts made towards addressing the tenets of sustainable development particularly
during 2015-16 is captured and elaborated in this sustainability report. this report is the result of
many concerted and dedicated efforts of corporate hse team & unit level nodal officers for
sustainability. i invite your feedback for making our future sustainability report more robust.




                                                                               (d bandyopadhyay)

                                                 5

  sustainability report 2015-16




                               overview of the report

key opportunities & threats
the domestic economy is experiencing a turnaround. the economy is expected to grow at 7.6% in
2016-17. important economic reforms including enhancing financial inclusion, rationalisation of
subsidies and relaxing fdi limits in several key sectors have buoyed the investment sentiment.
'make in india' platform presents a plethora of opportunities with major initiatives taken in various
sectors like defence, transportation, transmission, renewables etc. defence sector presents a major
opportunity for indigenization and leveraging on domestic strength in manufacturing. in the same
line sectoral push for solar, urban transportation, dedicated freight corridor, e- mobility and green
energy corridor will open new avenues for long-term sustainable growth. the positive steps taken
by the government are likely to translate into more business opportunities for the company. the
opportunities have been discussed in detail in bhel's annual report 2015-16 in the respective
chapters on business sectors under annexure-1 of management discussion and analysis.
climate change is the most potent problem the world is facing today. significant cuts in the emission
of green house gases (ghg) during energy generation need to be achieved through either substi-
tuting 'higher emission'
generation technology with
'lower emission' technology
or by employing energy
efficiency measures. it
presents a lot of opportuni-
ties for companies like bhel
and at the same time,
presents many challenges,
particularly related to the
development of 'green
technologies'. with emis-
sions norms getting more
stringent, there is an oppor-      bhel has successfully developed and demonstrated 50kwp spv systems
tunity for supplying emission               using sun trackers based on liquid balancing system
control equipments for new
coal-based plants.
global recovery continues at a slow pace. delayed recovery in organisation for economic
co-operation and development (oecd) economies and slowdown of china's growth are adding
stress to global economic recovery. china's economy is slowing as it transitions from investment
and manufacturing to consumption and services. a sharper slowdown in china than currently
projected could have strong international spill overs through trade, commodity prices and
confidence and lead to a more generalised slowdown in the global economy. as per world



                                                6

                                                                     sustainability report 2015-16



economic outlook released by imf in april 2016, china's growth is projected to slow to 6.5% this
year and 6.2% in 2017. a further weakening is expected in the industrial sector, as excess capacity
continues to unwind, especially in real estate as well as in manufacturing.
geopolitical tensions in iraq, libya, yemen, the syrian arab republic and ukraine have already made
economic impacts at the national and sub-regional levels. most of the world's major oil-producing
countries are still grappling with investment decisions, and subdued output, despite modest
rebound in international crude oil prices. the oil price outlook is uncertain and is likely to be so in the
near and medium term.
positioning for the future
amidst the difficult external economic and business environment, bhel continues to face
challenges in the current year also. nevertheless, the company has developed considerable
resilience to leverage its engineering strength and manufacturing prowess to regain growth
momentum in the next phase of indian economic growth. the overall business scenario is
improving and the 'make in india' initiative of govt. of india is poised to drive the manufacturing
sector into a new phase of growth.
•    power sector: bhel has taken initiatives to sustain leadership in indian power sector. major
     ones include enlarging the scope of the offer, expanding business and enhancing
     competitiveness. the share of epc orders in the company's power sector order mix is gradually
     increasing – from 36% in xi five year plan (fyp) to 45% in xii fyp. the company has added flue-
     gas desulfurization (fgd) system, air cooled condenser and water management system as a
     strategy to enlarge scope of offer. further steps have been taken for indigenization of
     supercritical technology. going forward, the company is gearing itself to capitalise on
     opportunities emerging from new environmental norms issued by ministry of environment,
     forest & climate change.
•    make in india: bhel considers 'make in india' as an inflexion point to significantly scale up and
     diversify its business mix. new opportunities are emerging in defence, railways, solar and also
     in conventional power
     sector – most impor-
     tantly with a focus on
     enhancing technology
     depth. the company is
     building new capabili-
     ties and exploring new
     business models to
     take advantage of
     emerging opportuni-
     ties and is confident of
     regaining growth
     momentum in near
     future. some of them
     are:
                                           800 mw ip turbine under assembly at bhel works for ntpc




                                                   7

    sustainability report 2015-16



•     solar pv: with focus on the growing demand in the solar pv market, bhel is in the process of
      augmenting its manufacturing capacity for spv cell to 105 mw and for modules to 226 mw.
      further, epc capability is being enhanced to 600 mw including long-term comprehensive
      o&m for large projects.
•     transmission: bhel has strengthened its higher voltage transmission portfolio with indigen-
      ously developed 1200 kv class transformer & 765 kv transformers & reactors. the company
      is gearing up to address ehv gis business with own-make gis upon successful field trials.
      initiatives are being taken for exploring tie up with oems for scada dms and subsequent
      implementation of a demonstration project for smart grids.

•    transportation: with the revival of demand from railways and emerging opportunities from
     dedicated freight corridor (dfc) and urban metro transportation, the company is focusing on
     business opportunities in metro coaches, high-speed trains and equipment for higher hp
     locomotives. for development of prototype for electric buses, in-house development of
     power electronics, motors and pv based wayside charging equipment has been taken up.

•    defence: tie-ups are being pursued with global technology leaders in defence sector by
     leveraging bhel's strength in manufacturing.




                           super rapid gun mount (srgm) for indian naval ships under
                                         construction at heep, haridwar


•    water: the company is gearing up to address sewage treatment plant (stp) business and
     large scale desalination with o&m.

•    global footprints: the company is making efforts to expand its global footprints and creating
     more market references. currently, bhel is executing 22 projects in 14 countries.


                                                 8

                                                                    sustainability report 2015-16



•    cost competitiveness: to enhance cost competitiveness of our products, various initiatives
     such as design optimization; enhancing performance parameters; de-packaging of bought-
     out-items & civil works;
     and indigenization of
     supercritical technol-
     ogy have been taken
     up.

•    r&d and innovation:
     bhel's products and
     systems are technol-
     ogy intensive and thus,
     the company has
     adopted r&d and
     technology develop-
     ment as one of the
     central drivers for
     implementing its                 indigenous development of nation's first advance ultra supercrticial
     strategy. the company         technology (ausc) based plant undertaken jointly with ntpc and igcar
     has maintained r&d
     expenditure at plus 2.5% of the turnover for more than 5 years. recent in-house developments
     include 765 & 1200 kv uhvac transformer & reactor, igbt propulsion technology for loco &
     acemu, statcom for industrial & grid applications, phase shifting transformer (pst) and 500
     kw pcu for solar pv generation. the company is also working with ntpc and igcar for
     development of advanced ultra supercritical (ausc) technology for coal-based power plants.
•    people development: in line with the growing aspirations of the millennial generation of the
     company, the people development strategy of bhel is focusing on developing employee
     competencies in alignment with the business plans through implementation of initiatives like
     e- learning modules and focus on technical & behavioural training.
•    creating bhel of tomorrow: to harness emerging opportunities and regain growth
     momentum, a strong resolve has been made towards transformation of bhel into an
     organisation which is “responsive, robust and rising” to the needs of our customers,
     employees and shareholders. focus on execution, consolidation and simplification (ecs) is
     one of the first steps to initiate this transformation process. there is a focus on bringing
     systemic changes and speed in execution (expeditiously translating an idea or strategy into
     action); eliminating structural layers of duplication through consolidation; and working on
     simplification of processes.
report profile
this report is the 5th annual sustainability report of bharat heavy electricals limited (bhel) and has
been prepared in line with the latest version of global reporting initiative (gri) framework i.e. gri
g4 covering the activities conducted in 2015-16. previous year report for 2014-15 was also prepared
in line with gri-g4 guidelines.



                                                  9

  sustainability report 2015-16



bhel started its journey of compilation and publication of its sustainability performance in the form
of annual sustainability report in 2011-12. current report covers the sustainability performance of
the company for the period 1st april 2015 to 31st march 2016 and is an attempt to give its readers a
holistic view of our sustainability performance for the reporting period and the areas in which
further improvement is desired. data has been provided for multiple years wherever available for
comparison purpose.
as committed in the previous year's sustainability report, we have included the data for our newly
established unit power plant piping unit (pppu), thirumayam in this year's report and consequently,
an adjustment has been made in the corresponding data for the last two years to uphold the
principle of comparability.
for the reporting purpose, data has been captured through sap system wherever available. data
not available through sap system at units have been taken from reliable sources at units, compiled
in a given format at the unit level and sent to the corporate office for preparation of this report.
wherever the data is not based on measurement, the same has been arrived at using appropriate
estimation methodology.
all calculations have been done as per the standard calculation methodology followed in united
nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) protocol, calculation tool for direct
emissions from stationary combustion –world resource institute (wri) / world business council
on sustainable development (wbcsd), green house gas (ghg) protocol, central electricity
authority (cea) data for grid emission factor etc. the contents of the report have been developed
on the principles of materiality, stakeholder inclusivity and responsiveness as applicable to bhel's
present sustainability context.
there has been no significant change from the previous reporting period. we strongly believe that
your feedback on our report will prove invaluable in improving the quality of our future reports. we
shall be highly thankful to you for providing your valuable feedback on this report. feedback can be
e-mailed at ajitshar@bhel.in
at present, the report is not being externally assured. the reporting principles and methodology are
in accordance with the “comprehensive” option of gri-g4 reporting framework.




                                               10

                                                                        sustainability report 2015-16




                                organisational profile

about the organisation

bharat heavy electricals limited (bhel) is the largest engineering and manufacturing company of its
kind in the country engaged in the design, engineering, manufacture, construction, testing,
commissioning and servicing of a wide range of power equipment. bhel caters to the needs of core
sectors of the indian economy viz. power generation and transmission, industry, transportation,
renewable energy, defence, etc. the company offers 180 products in 30 major product groups and
specialised long-term services to the customers. the main line of business includes design,
engineering, manufacture, supply, erection and commissioning of power projects. the company has
the capability to deliver 20,000 mw per annum of main power plant equipments. bhel is also
engaged in the engineering, manufacture, supply and erection & commissioning of major capital
equipment/products to a number of industries other than power utilities like metallurgical, mining,
cement, paper, fertilisers, refineries, petrochemicals etc., and provides specialised after-market-
services. bhel has proven turnkey capabilities for executing power projects from concept to
commissioning.




                  bhel's first 700 mw supercritical thermal set commissioned at kpcl bellary




                                                    11

  sustainability report 2015-16



the company has over the years established its references in around 78 countries across the world.
all products of bhel face stiff competition from both domestic as well as international companies.
bhel's products and systems are highly technology-intensive in nature and the company has been
updating technology through collaborative tie-ups with world leaders as well as through in-house
r&d efforts.

bhel is embracing the next phase of its growth on the strength of a sturdy foundation of more than
50 years of its journey of engineering excellence. bhel has been the solid bedrock of india's heavy
electrical equipment industry since its inception in 1964.

bhel's growth has been synchronous with achieving self-sufficiency in the indigenous
manufacturing of heavy electrical equipments. in the country, bhel alone constitutes a mammoth
20000 mw per annum capacity for manufacturing of power generation equipment. a widespread
network of 17 manufacturing units, 2 repair units, 4 regional offices, 8 service centres, 1 subsidiary, 6
overseas offices, 6 joint ventures, 15 regional marketing centres and current project execution at
more than 150 project sites across india and abroad corroborates the humungous scale and size of
its operations. with the key focus on project execution, the worldwide installed base of power
generating equipment supplied by bhel has exceeded 170 gw. bhel has 55% share in india's total
installed capacity and 58% share in the country's total generation from thermal utility sets (coal
based) as of march 31, 2016, this stands a testimony to its valuable contribution towards nation
building.



                                            power sector
    bhel is one of the few companies in the world having the capability to manufacture the
    entire range of power plant equipment and has proven turnkey capabilities for executing
    power projects from concept-to-commissioning. the power sector comprises thermal, gas,
    hydro and nuclear power plants. bhel:
    ø supplies steam turbines, generators, boilers and its auxiliaries upto 1000 mw. currently
      executing projects on epc basis including supercritical sets of 660/700/800 mw ratings
    ø supplies hydro turbines and generators of up to 250mw rating
    ø manufactures 220/235/540/550/ 700mwe nuclear turbine generator sets
    ø has proven expertise in plant performance improvement through renovation,
      modernization and uprating of a variety of power plant equipments
    ø has special know-how of residual life assessment, health diagnostics and life extension
      of plants
    ø has supplied thermal sets that have consistently exceeded national average efficiency
      parameters.




                                                 12

                                                                  sustainability report 2015-16




                                            industry sector
bhel is a leading manufacturer of a variety of industrial systems & products and meets the growing
demand for major industries like oil and gas, metallurgical & mining, fertilisers, sugar, refineries,
paper & petrochemicals etc. besides this, industry sector operations also provide complete
solutions for captive power generation, transmission, transportation, renewable energy, water
management, defence and other industrial products. major areas of operation include:
ø captive power projects: supplies steam turbine and gas turbine based captive power plants
ø transmission: execution of ehv & uhv substations ranging from 33 kv to 765 kv & hvdc
  converter stations up to ±800kv, power transformers, shunt reactors, vacuum & sf6
  switchgear, gas insulated switchgear, ceramic insulators, etc.
ø transportation: manufactures igbt based propulsion equipment (traction converter/auxiliary
  converter/vcu), 25kv ac locos, emu coaches and diesel-electric locomotives upto 5000hp
ø renewables: epc solutions from concept to commissioning for grid connected and standalone
  pv applications ranging from kw to mw sized plants, space grade solar panels and space grade
  batteries.
ø water: turnkey solutions for water treatment systems including pre-treatment plants (pt),
  seawater reverse osmosis (swro) plants, demineralization (dm) plants, ro plants for
  industrial applications, waste water/ effluent treatment plants (wwtp)/ (etp), sewage
  treatment plants (stp) and zero liquid discharge (zld) systems.
ø industrial products (electrical & mechanical): range of industrial products including oil rigs,
  wellheads & xmas trees, fabricated equipments & boiler feed pumps, compressors & ac
  machines
ø defence: supplier of strategic equipment to indian defence forces including super rapid gun
  mount & integrated platform management system for naval ships, thermo pressed
  components, heat exchangers for lca, turret castings for t72 tanks, castings for ships and
  simulators etc.




 locomotive under testing at centre for electric                 condenser for tejas aircraft
               transportation.




                                                   13

  sustainability report 2015-16



bhel also has a widespread overseas footprint in 78 countries including malaysia, oman, iraq, the
uae, bhutan, egypt and new zealand, with cumulative overseas installed capacity of bhel
manufactured power plants nearing 10,000 mw.
the high level of quality & reliability of bhel products is a testimony to its adherence to
international standards by acquiring and adapting some of the best technologies from leading
companies in the world including general electric, siemens ag and mitsubishi heavy industries ltd.
etc., together with technologies developed in its own r&d centres. most of the company's
manufacturing units and other entities have been accredited to quality management systems (iso
9001:2008), environmental management systems (iso 14001:2004) and occupational health &
safety management systems (ohsas 18001:2007).
bhel has been adept at transforming itself in line with the market requirements throughout its
illustrious journey. right
from its incorporation in a
protected market to facing
the pressure of a liberalised
economy and the current
slowdown in the economic
environment, bhel has
evolved by transforming its
strategies from product
manufacturing to market
orientation, business excel-
lence through portfolio
restructuring and the current
focus on sustaining growth
through diversification.
                                            hyd.oil-idg oil-fuel cooler (he-1) for tejas aircraft


diversification in transportation, transmission, defence, water & renewables is the strategy adopted
to maintain a balanced portfolio of offerings. this strategy of diversifying and capitalising new
business opportunities stems from the commitment to innovation led growth which is an
indispensable part of bhel's business model. r&d focus of the organisation is quite diverse ranging
from advance ultra-supercritical thermal power plants to grid-connected renewable energy
systems.




        primary heat exchanger for tejas aircraft                  precooler for tejas aircraft



                                                    14

                                                                  sustainability report 2015-16




                                                         reheater for tejas aircraft




   secondary heat exchanger for tejas aircraft




bhel's greatest strength is its highly skilled and committed workforce of about 42,000 employees
who have been the torchbearers of bhel's journey of excellence.
further, the concept of sustainable development is ingrained in the dna of bhel which is evident
from its mission statement- “providing sustainable business solutions in the fields of energy, industry
and infrastructure”. bhel is also engaging with the society with its social initiatives aimed at
community development, health & hygiene, education, environment protection, disaster
management, and talent up gradation/skill development.
the future is filled with both exciting opportunities & gruelling challenges. creating new sources of
growth, responsible utilisation of infrastructure, building new capabilities and transforming in line
with the market realities will be the key to future growth and stakeholders' wealth enhancement.
for further details about business profile and performance of different business segments, readers
may please refer to page 32-54 of bhel's annual report for fy 2015-16.
primary products and services
for details about primary products and services, kindly refer to page 243-251 of bhel's annual
report for fy 2015-16 available on www.bhel.com.


                                                 15

sustainability report 2015-16




                vision                                                                               mission
        a global engineering                                                                  providing sustainable
        enterprise providing                                                                business solutions in the
        solutions for a better                                                            fields of energy, industry &
              tomorrow                                                                            infrastructure




                                                       sustainable
                                                      performance
                                                  zero debt company
                                         consistent dividend paying company
                                                    since 1976-77
                                          first listed its equity shares on stock
                                                     exchanges in 1992



       a national champion                                                                     did you know?

     an indian maharatna cpse
 one of the largest engineering &
                                            world                                   3 out of 5 houses in india are supplied
                                                                                       power generated from bhel sets
                                                                                    bhel commissioned/synchronized an
 manufacturing companies in india
     serving core sectors of
          economy viz.
                                              of                                     all time high of 15,059 mw power
                                                                                     projects in a single year in 2015-16

             · power
             · industry
                                             bhel                                    all indian satellites launched by isro
                                                                                    are equipped with bhel supplied solar
                                                                                          panels since 2002 & batteries
                                                                                                    since 2005
   transmission/transportation/
                                                    global footprints               bhel is energizing india's north east
 renewables/defence/water/oil &
                                                references in 78 countries            with commissioning of 1st unit of
      gas/industrial products
                                                   offices in 6 countries          highest rating (3x250 mw) coal based
          elec. & mech.
                                           contracted power plant equipment          power plant in bongaigaon, assam
17 manufacturing units, 1 subsidiary,               around 17,000 mw               indian navy's ins kochi, kolkata class
6 joint ventures, 8 service centres &                                              missile destroyer ship is equipped with
                                              first overseas turnkey project
  infrastructure to deal with 150 +       commissioned by an indian company         bhel's super rapid gun mount and
            projects sites              executed by bhel at tripoli, libya in 1980        auxiliary control systems
   built india's capability in heavy     sudan's largest 500 mw kosti tps and        worlds largest ±800 kv, 6000 mw
electrical equipment manufacturing        two 220kv substations in afghanistan          multi terminal hvdc ne agra
                                          successfully commissioned in 2015-16
                                                                                   transmission project under execution
                                                                                                   by bhel
                                                                                       95% of hydroelectric generating
                                                                                     capacity in bhutan installed by bhel
                                                                                     bhel's first power generating set was
                                                                                       the 30 mw thermal power station
                                                                                    installed at basin bridge in tamil nadu,
                                                                                                way back in 1959
                                                                                     all the 29 states of the country have
                                                                                    power generating equipment installed
                                                                                                    by bhel.




                                                         16

                                                                                 sustainability report 2015-16



                                          heralding the change towards climate
                                           supercritical technology resulting in
                                           11% reduction in co2 emissions, less
                                            fuel consumption & lower cost to
                                                         customers
                                             highest number of eco-friendly
                                          supercritical sets commissioned in the
                                                      country till date
                                               developing advanced ultra
                                           supercritical (augc) technology for
                                           coal based power plants with ntpc
                                                        and igcar
              innovation                       developed more efficient ehv                   valuing people
 r&d expenditure> 2.5% of turnover          transmission systems and products        participative management culture
  highest in indian engineering field     (765 kv ac, 800 kv dc & 1200 kv ac)        through jcm, plant council., shop
        five research institutes           generated 8.08 mu energy & carbon                 council since 1973
       14 centres of excellence           footprint avoidance of 7800 mt co2-e
                                                                                    77% engineers amongst executives
  more than 1 patent/copyright filed      during 2015-16 through in house solar
                 per day                            power installations                 2,300 + female employees
    total intellectual capital-3441          low lifecycle cost of equipment             less than 1% attrition rate
     in-house r&d centres of 12                 facilaiting affordable and
                                           environmentally sustainable energy        4 + days of training per employee
    manufacturing units/divisions
                                                          systems                                 per year
          recognized by dsir




             social onus                               energizing india                  unparalleled experience
                                               major integrated power plant
committed to principles of un global                                                    530,000+ mva transmission
                                          equipment manufacturer in the world
             compact                        with 20,000 mw pa manufacturing                 equipment supplied
     signatory to integrity pact of                         capacity
                                                                                   30,000+ ac machines supplied, largest
      transparency international                170+ gw power generating
                                                equipment installed till date              indian manufacturer
      undertaken 60 projects on                 55% of india's nuclear power         15,000 + mw captive power plant
          "swachh bharat"                    generating capacity (conventional
                                                   island) installed by bhel                    installed
             bio diversity
                                          commissioned country's first 660 mw       190+ mw cumulative shipments of
  · in house green coverage of 4.7               indigenously manufactured
                                                                                      pv cells, modules and systems
        million square meters                 supercritical set at ntpc barh-5,
                                                             in 2013                360 electric locos supplied to indian
 · plantation of more than 3 million           commissioned country's first             railways & other industries
                 trees                     indigenously manufactured 800 mw
                                            boiler at appdcl krishnapatnam 2,       380 + compressors & 90 oil drilling
bhel's mobile science vans benefitting                       in 2014
  school children in vicinity of three                                                       rigs supplied
units of bhel vis. haridwar, jhansi and                                                42+ oil rigs refurbishment &
                 trichy
                                                                                         upgradation completed
 supporting 11 mobile medical units
                                                                                            34 srgms supplied
  for benefits to the needy patients




                                                         17

sustainability report 2015-16             sustainability report 2015-16




                                18   19

sustainability report 2015-16




                                20

                                 sustainability report 2015-16




      global footprints of bhel
presence in 78 countries around the world




                  21

sustainability report 2015-16




                                22

                                                               sustainability report 2015-16



nature of ownership and legal form
bhel is a maharatna public sector undertaking (psu) with 63.06% stake held by government of
india. it was established in 1964 under the companies act, 1956. the shareholding pattern of the
company as on 31st march 2016 is shown in the adjacent figure.
there has been no change in the shareholding of the government of india during the reporting
period (2015-16) as compared to the previous year.




recognition of excellence
continuing its tradition of bagging prestigious national/international awards, the organisation and
employees won several awards during the year 2015-16. for details of these awards kindly refer to
page 20-22 of bhel's annual report 2015-16.




                                              23

  sustainability report 2015-16




                                 corporate governance

management approach
bhel has established a sound framework of corporate governance which underlines commitment
to quality of governance, transparency in disclosures, consistent stakeholders' value enhancement
and corporate social responsibility. bhel endeavours to transcend much beyond the regulatory
framework and basic requirements of corporate governance focusing consistently towards
building the confidence of its various stakeholders including shareholders, customers, employees,
suppliers and the society at large. the company has developed a framework for ensuring
transparency, disclosure and fairness to all, especially minority shareholders.
the corporate governance policy of bhel rests upon the four pillars of transparency, full disclosure,
independent monitoring and fairness to all. to strengthen this, bhel has signed a mou with
transparency international to adopt 'integrity pact'. our corporate structure, business procedures
and disclosure practices have attained a sound equilibrium with our corporate governance policy
resulting in achievement of goals as well as high level of business ethics.
governance structure at bhel
the composition of the board of directors as on 31.03.2016 is as under:


   particulars                                               board            actual strength as
                                                             structure        on 31.03.2016

   chairman & managing director                                    1                   1

   whole-time executive (functional) directors                     5                   4

   part-time official directors (government nominees)
   representing the ministry of heavy industries &                 2                   2
   public enterprises, government of india

   part-time non-official (independent) directors                  8                   5

   total                                                           16                 12


as on 31st march, 2016, there existed one vacancy of director (power) and three vacancies of part-
time non-official (independent) directors on the board of bhel. the matter of filling up of these
vacancies is under consideration of department of heavy industry, ministry of heavy industries &
public enterprises, government of india.
board level committees
there are eight board level committees in bhel. the details of the committees of the board with
regard to their composition and respective terms of reference (responsibilities/ mandate) as on
31.03.2016 can be seen in bhel's annual report 2015-16 page 98-105.



                                                 24

                                                                sustainability report 2015-16



as on 31.03.2016, the board comprised of persons within the age group of 45-65 years. there was
one woman independent (non-executive) director on the board of bhel with age of 63 years. only
one-woman director belonged to a minority group. all directors are eminent personalities having
wide experience in the field of management, finance, engineering, administration and industry. the
chair of highest governing body is also an executive officer (chairman & managing director).



                                   board level committees



                                         board level                  nomination and
       board level audit
                                        committee for                  remuneration
          committee
                                       corporate social                 committee
                                        responsibility



                                                                            hr
          shareholders'
                                                                         committee
           committee


                                         committee on
                                         arbitration &
          committee of                                                board level risk
                                          major legal
          independent                                                  management
                                           disputes
            directors                                                   committee




bhel has a unitary board structure. directors other than functional (whole-time) directors are non-
executive directors. non-executive directors comprise of part-time official directors &
independent directors. non-executive directors attend only meetings of the board and are not
involved in the day to day management of the company.
bhel defines “independent director” as per section 149(6) of the companies act, 2013, regulation
16(1)(b) of the listing regulations and dpe guidelines on corporate governance.
in line with articles of association of the company, companies act and sebi (listing obligations &
disclosure requirements) regulations, 2015, certain important key decisions (viz. appointment of
directors, adoption of annual accounts etc.) are taken by shareholders in the annual general
meeting. shareholders can also raise queries, interact with board members and provide
suggestions at the general meeting(s) of the company. the shareholders can provide
recommendations and suggestions to any director on the board of bhel. contact details are
available on the website of the company (www.bhel.com). further, shareholders have a dedicated
email-id:shareholderquery@bhel.in to communicate with the company.


                                              25

  sustainability report 2015-16



addressing conflict of interest (coi)
all directors at the time of joining the board give a certificate stating that neither they nor their
relatives have any conflict of interest with the company's business. directors also disclose their
interest in other companies, body corporates and other entities to the board at the time of joining
and also whenever there is any change in the interest. directors abstain from any discussions in/
approval of the board pertaining to contracts or transactions with such interested parties. further,
all directors and senior management personnel sign an affirmation to abide by the code of
business conduct and ethics of bhel and ensure a high standard of conduct.
constitution of highest governing body
as per articles of association of bhel, the president of india through department of heavy industry,
ministry of heavy industries & public enterprises, appoints the chairman & managing director,
functional directors and part-time official directors on the board of bhel and also nominates part-
time non-official (independent) directors on the board of bhel.
the appointment of chairman & managing director and functional directors is on such terms and
conditions, remuneration and tenure as the president of india may from time to time determine.
two part-time official directors viz. additional secretary/ joint secretary, department of heavy
industry-ministry of heavy industries & public enterprises and additional secretary & financial
advisor, ministry of commerce and industry are nominated by the government of india on the
board of bhel. they continue to be on the board of bhel at the discretion of the government of
india.
the independent directors are selected by the department of heavy industry in consultation with
the search committee of the department of public enterprises which maintains a panel of eminent
personalities having wide experience in the field of management, finance, engineering,
administration and industry.




                                               26

                                                    sustainability report 2015-16




             board of directors
                            (as on 10.08.2016)




                   sitting from right to left:
          shri keshav n. desiraju, part-time non-official director
              shri rajesh kumar singh, joint secretary, dhi
              shri atul sobti, chairman & managing director
dr. subhash chandra pandey, additional secretary & financial adviser, dipp
               shri a.n. roy, part-time non-official director


                  standing from right to left:
               shri s. biswas, director (engineering, r&d)
             ms. harinder hira, part-time non-official director
                 shri t. chockalingam, director (finance)
           shri r. swaminathan, part-time non-official director
            shri rajesh kishore, part-time non-official director
           shri d. bandyopadhyay, director (human resources)
                     shri akhil joshi, director (power)
      shri amitabh mathur, director (industrial systems & products)
                    shri i.p. singh, company secretary




                                   27

    sustainability report 2015-16



code of business conduct
as part of bhel's persisting endeavor to set a high standard of conduct for its employees, a 'code of
business conduct and ethics' was laid down for all board members and senior management
personnel and the same was revised in line with changes in the regulatory framework & changing
business dynamics and to incorporate other relevant provisions to strengthen the code. pursuant to
erstwhile listing agreement with the stock exchanges, the board of directors of bhel in its 465th
meeting held on 14th november, 2014 revised and approved the “code of business conduct & ethics
for board members and senior management personnel” of the company. the code is also in
compliance with the current listing regulations. the code encompasses:
· general moral imperatives;
· specific professional responsibilities; and
· specific additional provisions for board members and senior management personnel.
a copy of the said revised code has been placed on the company's website 'www.bhel.com'. all
board members and senior management personnel affirm compliance with bhel's “code of
business conduct and ethics” at the end of every financial year. a declaration to this effect is signed
by the chairman & managing director and given in the annual report of the company.
all board members and senior management personnel have affirmed compliance with bhel's
“code of business conduct and ethics” for the financial year 2015-16.
working of the board
the board's mandate is to oversee the company's strategic direction, review and monitor corporate
performance, ensure regulatory compliance and safeguard the interests of the shareholders. such
oversight and monitoring are ensured through regular meetings of the board of directors which are
scheduled well in advance. this also ensures that important decisions are taken and implemented in
time. in the financial year 2015-16, board met 10 times.
the company secretary, in consultation with the chairman & managing director, sends a written
notice of each board meeting to each director. the board agenda is circulated to the directors in
advance. the members of the board have access to all information of the company and are free to
recommend inclusion of any matter in agenda for discussion. in the case of need, the senior
management is invited to attend the board meetings to provide additional inputs relating to the
items being discussed and/or to give a presentation to the board. the board meets at least once in a
quarter to review the quarterly results and other items on the agenda. additional meetings are held,
when necessary.
the information under the following heads are usually presented to the board of directors of bhel
either as part of the agenda papers or are tabled/ presented during the course of board meeting:
·   annual operating plans and budgets and any updates.
·   capital budgets and any updates.
·   quarterly results of the company and its operating divisions or business segments.
·   minutes of meetings of audit committee and other committees of the board.
·   minutes of board meetings of unlisted subsidiary companies.
·   statement of all significant transactions and arrangements entered into by unlisted subsidiary
    companies.


                                                28

                                                                  sustainability report 2015-16



·   the information on recruitment of senior officers just below the board level.
·   details of any joint venture or r&d project or technical collaboration agreement requiring
    approval of board of directors.
·   significant labour problems and their proposed solutions. any significant development in
    human resources/ industrial relations front like the signing of wage agreement,
    implementation of voluntary retirement scheme etc.
·   sale of material, nature of investments, subsidiaries, assets, which is not in normal course of
    business.
·   quarterly details of foreign exchange exposures and the steps taken by management to limit
    the issues of adverse exchange rate movement, if material.
·   action taken report on matters desired by the board.
·   disclosure of interest by directors about directorships and committee positions occupied by
    them in other companies.
·   quarterly report on compliance with various laws.
·   information relating to major legal disputes.
·   status of arbitration cases.
·   short-term investment of surplus funds.
·   any contract(s) in which director(s) are deemed to be interested.
·   status of shareholders' grievances on the quarterly basis.
·   significant capital investment proposals.
·   changes in significant accounting policies & practices and reasons for the same.
·   the performance of various units/ functions.
·   any other information required to be presented to the board either for information or approval.
in addition to the above, the board of directors has also constituted various statutory and technical
committees such as the board level audit committee, stakeholders relationship committee,
share transfer committee, hr committee, board level committee for csr, committee of
independent directors, nomination & remuneration committee, board level risk management
committee and committee on arbitration & major legal disputes to ensure in-depth analysis &
review as well as to provide requisite guidance, advice and recommendations on important
matters. the procedures for conducting meetings of these committees are also similar to that
followed for the board of directors.
ethics, transparency & integrity
the company believes in conducting business in a manner that complies with the corporate
governance procedures and code of conduct, exemplifies each of our core values and positions us
to deliver long-term returns to our shareholders, favourable outcomes to our customers, attractive
opportunities to our employees and making the suppliers our partners in progress & enriching the
society.
bhel's governance framework endeavours to transcend much beyond the regulatory and basic
requirements of corporate governance, focusing consistently towards building the confidence of


                                                29

  sustainability report 2015-16



its various stakeholders including shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers and the society at
large. the framework underlines commitment to quality of governance, transparency in disclosures,
consistent stakeholders' value enhancement and corporate social responsibility. our corporate
structure, business procedures and disclosure practices have attained a sound equilibrium with our
corporate governance policy resulting in achievement of goals as well as high level of business
ethics. bhel's corporate governance policy is based on the following principles:
i) independence and versatility of the board
ii) integrity and ethical behaviour of all personnel
iii) recognition of obligations towards all stakeholders – shareholders, customers, employees,
     suppliers and the society
iv) high degree of disclosure and transparency levels
v) total compliance with laws in all areas in which the company operates
vi) achievement of above goals with compassion for people and environment
the company is complying with the provisions of companies act, listing regulations (erstwhile
listing agreement) and dpe guidelines.
a mou has been signed with transparency international india (tii) to adopt 'integrity pact', to make
public procurement and contracting more transparent by binding both the parties to ethical
conduct. a panel of three independent external monitors (iems) have been appointed with the due
approval of central vigilance commission to oversee implementation of integrity pact in bhel.
works policy, purchase policy and other policy documents facilitate transparency in bhel working
and commitment of highest order of integrity. under 'delegation of power' of various functionaries,
accountability is well defined.
the performance of the board is judged against benchmarks set within the company as well as the
memorandum of understanding signed with the department of heavy industry. the effectiveness
of the board is seen with respect to the overall value addition by the decisions taken at the board
meetings.
mechanisms to analyse corruption and fraudulent practice risks
the company has a board approved 'code for business conduct & ethics' for all board members
and senior management personnel which can be viewed through the following link:
http://www.bhel.com/investor_relations/pdf/code%20of%20business%20conduct%20and%20et
hics.pdf
in addition, as part of bhel's persisting endeavour to set a high standard of conduct for its
employees (other than those governed by standing orders), the 'bhel conduct, discipline and
appeal rules, 1975' are in place. the company is subject to rti act, 2005 and audit by statutory
auditors (under chapter x of the companies act, 2013), cag audit under section 143 of the
companies act, 2013.
bhel is a front-runner in implementing the right to information act, 2005 and has embraced the



                                                30

                                                                 sustainability report 2015-16



act in true letter and spirit.
·   a central public information officer (cpio) and a central assistant public information officer
    (capio) aided by a dy. manager (law) at the company level and 21 cpios at each of the major
    administrative units are functioning as part of the right to information group.
·   21 appellate authorities are functioning at the company level to dispose of first appeals filed
    under the act.
·   to assist and facilitate the citizens in obtaining information, detailed guidelines have been
    placed on bhel's website, spelling out the procedure for securing access to information and
    filing of first appeals under the act.
·   instructions have been issued to administrative units to ensure compliance with the mandatory
    requirements of the act.
·   proactive disclosures have been made on bhel's website in line with section 4 (1) (b) of the act,
    disseminating various categories of information so that citizens have the minimum need to
    resort to the act for the purpose of obtaining information.
·   bhel is an active member of steering committee on rti constituted by standing conference of
    public enterprise (scope).
·   bhel has adopted the rti online web portal of department of personnel & training, govt. of
    india. the rti applications/appeals filed on this web portal are received electronically in bhel.
·   the cpios and the other stakeholders involved are sensitised regularly about their obligations
    under the act through various training and workshops.
bhel organised its annual workshop on the act on 11.3.2016 for the benefit of all the cpios and first
appellate authorities. the keynote address was delivered by prof (dr.) m m ansari, former central
information commissioner.
monitoring mechanisms in place to avoid incidences of corruption
bhel has adequate systems of internal financial controls in place, in the form of well-documented
policies & procedures that cover critical as well as important activities of financial and other
operating functions.
the procedures are in the form of manuals, guidelines, the delegation of powers and it systems &
controls which are effected through people operating in various departments within the company
at different levels. these are designed to ensure compliance to the internal financial controls as
detailed in the companies act - 2013. the senior management reviews and certifies the
effectiveness of the internal control mechanism over financial reporting, adherence to the code of
conduct and company's policies.
bhel has an in-house internal audit department commensurate with its size of operations. it has
internal audit cells located at major manufacturing units, regional offices and at the corporate
office of the company which carry out audits as per annual audit programme approved and
reviewed by board level audit committee. the internal audit department checks the adequacy and
effectiveness of internal financial control system through regular audits, system reviews and
provides assurance on compliance with the legal, regulatory and internal policies and procedures of
the company.




                                                31

  sustainability report 2015-16



functioning of internal audit as well as internal financial control systems are periodically reviewed
by the board level audit committee (blac) which is supported by unit level audit committees
(ulac). necessary directions are issued by blac/ulac/ management wherever required to further
strengthen the internal financial control system keeping in view the dynamic environment in which
the company is operating. the company continues its efforts to align all its processes and controls
with global best practices.
bhel has a strong vigilance mechanism in place. the vigilance department of bhel is headed by a
chief vigilance officer (cvo) appointed by department of heavy industry (dhi), ministry of heavy
industries & public enterprises, govt. of india. major manufacturing units/regional offices of bhel
have vigilance set ups headed by senior vigilance executives reporting to the cvo. bhel is laying
more focus on preventive vigilance to tackle corruption. the approach to preventive vigilance
includes a combination of measures like the review of rules & policies particularly concerning
procurement and recruitment, awareness measures and focusing on specific functional areas.
some of the preventive measures initiated in recent times are as under:
ø review and updating the policies/manuals in order to align them with the extant govt.
  policies/guidelines, and to bring clarity in the provisions to avoid scope for different
  interpretations
ø expansion of vendor base to ensure competitiveness
ø demarcation of bhel land and digitisation of land records
ø introduction of audit trail in computerised systems for tracking changes
ø installation of cctvs to check material movements and to improve security environment in the
  premises of manufacturing units
ø issue of fraud prevention policy and complaint handling policy of the company
ø introduction of on-line complaint system to bring more transparency
a detailed corruption mitigation action plan in respect of potential areas of corruption in bhel has
been prepared and it has been taken up for implementation by all units/regions. potential areas of
corruption have been identified, and in each case, the detailed strategy has been identified in
respect of causes of corruption, proposed action plan to mitigate the same and measurable targets
and persons responsible for implementation in the respective units. vigilance department is
publishing a quarterly e-newsletter 'disha' with a view to creating awareness about relevant
policies, rules and procedures, to disseminate the instructions/ guidelines issued by cvc & govt. of
india from time to time and to share best practices and case studies. the vigilance awareness week
was observed from 26th – 31st october, 2015 in the corporate office, manufacturing units, regional
offices, at project sites of bhel with the pledge of integrity undertaken by the employees. during the
week, a documentary film on bhel "chalo sath chalein- ek anubhav bhel ka" by bhel was
telecast by doordarshan in october 2015. besides showcasing the good governance, transparency
and best practices adopted by bhel, the film highlights how the collective approach of bhel's
management and vigilance has brought benefits to the company.
routine/surprise inspections were carried out by units / corporate vigilance and the learnings were
shared with the senior executives of management. in addition, circulars were issued by corporate
vigilance for systemic improvements in critical areas. since bhel has adopted integrity pact,
structured meetings are held with the independent external monitors (iems) every quarter wherein
the procurement related issues and complaints thereupon are discussed. the integrity pact has
been made mandatory for all purchase orders/contracts of value more than ₹5 crore.


                                                32

                                                                   sustainability report 2015-16



                        materiality and stakeholder engagement

bhel's financial statement details have been provided on page 148- 236 of bhel's annual report
for 2015-16. it includes standalone annual accounts as well as the consolidated financial statement.
the consolidated financial statement includes its subsidiary and joint venture as well. the list of such
entities is given in the table.
however, for the purpose of
preparation of sustainability
                                       subsidiary:
report of bhel, the data
pertaining to only bhel has            bhel electrical machines limited (bhel eml)
been reported and subsidiaries         joint venture:
and joints ventures are not being      1. bhel- ge gas turbine services limited
considered.
                                       2. dada dhuniwale khandwa power ltd.
major activities of bhel which
                                       3. raichur power corporation ltd.
have environmental impacts are
being carried out in our               4. ntpc-bhel power projects pvt. limited
manufacturing units and in             5. latur power company limited (lpcl)
these units, robust systems have
                                       6. powerplant performance improvement limited (pppl)
been developed over a period of
time for data capturing and
reporting.
the data on environmental aspect en1: materials includes material use at the project sites also.




                                                 33

  sustainability report 2015-16



however, for all other aspects, the report is limited to the manufacturing units as shown in the figure
captioned “reporting boundary for environmental indicators”. at project sites, our projects are
under various stages of execution and as of now except data capturing for material, other
environmental aspects are not being monitored and controlled in a robust manner.
the data for the aspects other than environment includes the data for entire bhel setup (excluding
jvs and subsidiaries).
stakeholder identification & engagement
bhel's identified stakeholders broadly fall into six categories. they are – government of india,
customers, employees, shareholders, vendors and society. bhel has processes in place to ensure
inclusion of stakeholder concerns and expectations.
these are the groups which either affect the business of bhel or themselves get affected by our
business. this relationship forms the basis on which these specific groups have been identified by
the organisation as its stakeholders.
key issues are identified through ongoing stakeholder engagement and addressed by programmes
or action plans with clear and measurable targets. bhel units regularly organise vendor meets
specifically for mses (including local suppliers) towards capacity and capability building, which also
provide opportunities for open communication for mutual benefit and support.
based on the stakeholder expectations material issues are identified. these issues are viewed in the
sustainability context of the organisation. then finally the issues which are perceived as important
to both the key stakeholders and to the company are prioritised and reported as key sustainability
issues for the organisation with regards to its sustainability performance.
bhel has clearly identified the disadvantaged, vulnerable poor, needy & marginalized stakeholder
in the vicinity of the bhel manufacturing units/regional offices/divisions/sites/offices and their
concerns are addressed as per bhel's csr policy which is incompliance with section 135 & schedule
vii of the companies act, 2013 and rules made thereunder as well as dpe guidelines on csr &
sustainability for cpses released on 21.10.2014.




                                                34

                                                                sustainability report 2015-16




                                      step 3 : establish the
                                  linkages between identified
                                       material issues and
                                   organisation's sd vision &
                               strategy. prioritize the issues and
                                           sub-issues

                                     step 2 : identify the
                                        concerns- key
                                     sustainability issues
                             through internal materiality analysis
                                and sharing with stakeholders



                                  step 1 : map stakeholders -
                                     internal & external




                                   stakeholder engagement
                                      framework @ bhel




some of the stakeholder engagement activities undertaken during 2015-16 are given in the table
below.

                      modes of stakeholder engagement & activities

    stakeholder      mode of              snapshot of activities conducted in 2015-16
    group            engagement/
                     communication

    shareholders     annual repor t, · annual general meeting
                     press releases, · conference calls/ one-to-one meeting with
                     investor relation investors and company's communication at
                                       investor conferences in india and abroad
                                          · separate section on corporate governance
                                            annexed with annual report of the company
                                            wherein all disclosures are made as per the
                                            listing requirements




                                             35

sustainability report 2015-16




 stakeholder    mode of           snapshot of activities conducted in 2015-16
 group          engagement/
                communication

 shareholders                     · disclosure of material information or event on
                                    the internet, filing of information with sebi &
                                    stock exchanges, news release and press
                                    conferences
 customer       mou, reports      · parliamentary committee meetings
                                  · goi has major shareholding in bhel and hence
                                    company has several established mechanisms
                                    in place to communicate with government
                                    authorities
                                  · mou formulation task force and performance
                                    review by department of public enterprises
                                    (dpe)
                                  · interaction with ministry of heavy industry &
                                    public enterprises at senior most level on
                                    company performance as well as policy related
                                    issues
                                  · adherence to values/ processes in line with
                                    guidelines given by government institutions
                                    like parliamentary committees, cvc, cag,
                                    ministry of heavy industry etc.

 suppliers      customers' meet, ü customer satisfaction surveys
                surveys
                                 ü continuous interaction and feedback by cmd,
                                   functional directors and marketing groups at
                                   corporate level
                                  ü assessment of present and future needs by
                                    unit/regional heads and concerned general
                                    manager once in 3 months for every customer
                                    and also need based
                                  ü assessment of short/midterm needs once in
                                    two months for every customer by head of
                                    functions in manufacturing units
                                  ü work progress review by site-in-charge
                                    everyday
                                  ü annual customer meet by top & senior
                                    management



                                     36

                                                       sustainability report 2015-16




stakeholder   mode of             snapshot of activities conducted in 2015-16
group         engagement/
              communication

suppliers     vendors meet        ö vendor satisfaction surveys by manufacturing
                                    units
                                  ö daily milestone review by project site in-
                                    charge
                                  ö short & midterm need assessment by senior
                                    management
                                  ö contract execution review by the head of
                                    functions as and when needed.
                                  ö vendor meets at manufacturing unit level
                                  ö partnership through mous/rate contracts
employees     in-house maga-      f employees satisfaction surveys
              zine, message       f to p d o w n c o m m u n i c a t i o n t h r o u g h
              from cmd,             management committee meetings, monthly
              employee              communication meetings, top management
              engagement            meeting, project review meetings
              survey, joint       f it-enabled communication e.g. internet and e-
              committee, plant      mails, intranet, e-map etc.
              council, shop       f display boards, led/plasma tv display etc.
              council             f bottom-up communication through joint
                                    committee, plant council, shop council,
                                    general communication meeting etc.
                                  f horizontal communication through daily
                                    communication meeting at sites/shop floor,
                                    video conferencing, audio conferencing, ip
                                    phone etc.
society at    csr programme, v csr projects
large         baseline survey / v interaction with people through site visits for
              need identification   csr, meeting with ngo's representatives
                                  v society satisfaction surveys by units
                                  v continuous interaction with local
                                    administration/district authorities by senior
                                    management at manufacturing units/project
                                    sites
                                  v medical camps/ blood donation camps at
                                    units/sites/adopted villages etc.
                                  v creation of educational infrastructure for local
                                    people at manufacturing units
                                  v other social welfare initiatives



                                    37

  sustainability report 2015-16



some of the key topics and concerns which have been raised by the stakeholders during 2015-16
and the steps being taken by the organisation to address these concerns and risks are given in the
table below.


        material issues identified                strategic goals set to resolve these issues

     order book reduction due to                · expanding the offerings, including focus on
     increasing competition, excess               epc business
     domestic manufacturing capacities          · diversified product profile
     and low business sentiments.
     high material cost to turnover ratio           means are being explored to reduce the
                                                    material content of our products so as to
                                                    reduce their cost as well as environmental
                                                    footprint over its life cycle
     safety performance at site                 v safety performance review is being done
                                                  more critically
                                                v safety organisation at project sites is being
                                                  strengthened
                                                v heightened efforts to involve all the
                                                  employees in improving safety performance
     expectations of stakeholders in the            more focused csr initiatives are being taken
     vicinity of our geographical                   to address the expectations of the
     footprint                                      stakeholders. sustainability and scalability
                                                    are the two important parameters identified
                                                    for such projects



process for defining report content and aspect boundaries
our process of materiality analysis is a three stage process. in the first stage, plethora of issues which
are significant for the stakeholders of the company and which may affect or have a potential to
affect the sustainability of
business of the organisation
                                                                    step 2           step 3
are identified. it is done                      step 1          sustainability   prioritisation     output
                                            identification         context
through stakeholder engage-                                                     prioritisation of identified
                                         issue identification    identify the
                                                                sustainability      relevant       material
ment/feedback/ brainstorm-              through stakeholder                      sustainability
                                                                context of the                      issues
                                             engagement        identified issue       issue
ing. in the next stage, these
identified issues are analysed
in sustainability context to                                  materiality analysis
analyse the importance of the
identified issue for the organisations' economic, environmental and social impact and how the issue
is going to influence the stakeholders' decision and assessment of bhel.


                                                   38

                                                                  sustainability report 2015-16



then in the third & final stage, the relevant issues which are material to the company as well as the
stakeholders are prioritised through a simple matrix.
for the reporting period 2015-16, like the previous year the following issues have been found to be
key material issues for the company and the same are reported in this document in detail:




              economic performance


                climate change




                                                                                        identified key material issues
                 energy


                   occupational health & safety


                  material consumption


                water


             effluent and waste




it may also be noted that major impact of our product and services lies outside our boundary during
the life cycle of the power plant which is beyond the control of bhel. to minimise the environmental
impacts of our products and services, bhel is continuously striving for more efficient power plant
equipment and development of greener technologies. also, emission during transportation of our
products across our presence is there but we are unable to capture it at present.
there is no significant change in our operations or supply chain from previous reporting periods.
however, due to incorporation of 3 years' data for our pppu thirumayam unit there has been a
modification in the scope and aspect boundary of the identified material issues as compared to
previous reports. the environmental indicator data for pppu thirumayam has been added this year
and consequently, the same is incorporated in the data for 2013-14 & 2014-15 leading to minor
adjustment in the data reported in our sustainability report for 2013-14 & 2014-15.




                                                39

  sustainability report 2015-16




                                economic performance

management approach
the company believes that conducting business in a manner that complies with the corporate
governance procedures and code of conduct exemplifies each of our core values and position us to
deliver long-term returns to our shareholders, favourable outcomes to our customers, attractive
opportunities to our employees and making the suppliers our partners in progress & enriching the
society. bhel has exhibited sustainable growth throughout its journey so far despite various
challenges being faced by the company.
preparing for growth
amidst the difficult external economic and business environment, bhel continues to face
challenges in the current year also. nevertheless, the company has developed considerable
resilience to leverage its engineering strength and manufacturing prowess to regain growth
momentum in the next phase of indian economic growth. the overall business scenario is
improving and the 'make in india' initiative of govt. of india is poised to drive the manufacturing
sector into a new phase of growth.
v power sector: bhel has taken many initiatives to sustain a leadership position in indian power
  sector. major ones include enlarging the scope of offers, expanding business and enhancing
  competitiveness. the share of epc orders in the company's power sector order mix is gradually
  increasing – from 36% in xi fyp to 45% in xii fyp. the company has added flue-gas
  desulfurization (fgd) system, air cooled condenser and water management system as a
  strategy to enlarge the scope of offers. further steps have been taken for indigenization of
  supercritical technology. going forward, the company is gearing itself to capitalise
  opportunities emerging from new environmental norms issued by ministry of environment,
  forest & climate change.
v make in india: bhel considers 'make in india' as an inflexion point to significantly scale up and
  diversify its business mix. new opportunities are emerging in defence, railways, solar and also in
  the conventional power sector. the company is building new capabilities and exploring new
  business models to take advantage of emerging opportunities and is confident of regaining
  growth momentum in near future. some of them are:
    ·   solar pv: with the focus on the growing demand in the solar pv market, bhel is in the
        process of augmenting its manufacturing capacity for spv cell to 105 mw and for modules
        to 226 mw. further, epc capability is being enhanced to 600 mw including long-term
        comprehensive o&m for large projects.
    ·   transmission: bhel has strengthened its higher voltage transmission portfolio with
        indigenously developed 1200 kv class transformer & 765 kv transformers & reactors. the
        company is gearing up to address ehv gis business with own-make gis upon successful
        field trials. initiatives are being taken for exploring tie up with oems for scada dms and
        subsequent implementation of a demonstration project for smart grids.


                                               40

                                                                sustainability report 2015-16



    ·   transportation: with the revival of demand from railways and emerging opportunities
        from dedicated freight corridor (dfc) and urban metro transportation, the company is
        focusing on business opportunities in metro coaches, high-speed trains and equipment for
        high hp locomotives. for the development of the prototype for electric buses, in-house
        development of power electronics, motors and pv based wayside charging equipment has
        been taken up.
    ·   defence: tie-ups are being pursued with global technology leaders in defence sector by
        leveraging bhel's strength in manufacturing.
    ·   water: the company is gearing up to address business opportunities in the area of sewage
        treatment and large-scale desalination with o&m.
v global footprints: the company is making efforts to expand its global footprints and creating
  more market references. currently, bhel is executing 22 projects in 14 countries.
v cost competitiveness: to enhance the competitiveness of our products and services, various
  measures like design optimisation; enhancing performance parameters; de-packaging of
  bought-out-items & civil works; and indigenization of supercritical technology etc. have been
  initiated.
v r&d and innovation: bhel's products and systems are technology intensive and thus, the
  company has adopted r&d and technology development as one of the central drivers for
  implementing its strategy. the company has maintained r&d expenditure at plus 2.5% of the
  turnover for more than 5 years. recent in-house developments include 765 & 1200 kv uhvac
  transformer & reactor, igbt propulsion technology for loco & acemu, statcom for industrial &
  grid applications, phase shifting transformer (pst) and 500 kw pcu for solar pv generation. the
  company is also working with ntpc and igcar for the development of advanced ultra
  supercritical (ausc) technology for coal-based power plants.
v people development: in line with the growing aspirations of the millennial generation, the
  people development strategy of bhel is focusing on developing employee's competencies in
  alignment with the business plans through the implementation of initiatives like e- learning
  modules and focus on technical & behavioural training.
v creating bhel of tomorrow: to harness emerging opportunities and regain growth
  momentum, a strong resolve has been made towards transforming bhel into an organisation
  which is “responsive, robust and rising” to the needs of our customers, employees and
  shareholders. focus on execution, consolidation and simplification (ecs) is one of the first steps
  to initiate this transformation process. there is a focus on bringing systemic changes and speed
  in execution (expeditiously translating an idea or strategy into action); eliminating structural
  layers of duplication through consolidation, and working on simplification of processes.
financial statement details have been provided on page 148- 236 of bhel's annual report for 2015-
16. it comprises of standalone annual accounts as well as the consolidated financial statement. the
consolidated financial statement includes its subsidiary and joint venture as well.


                                               41

  sustainability report 2015-16



value addition statement
the value addition statement is provided in the table below.




   description                            2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 2012-13 2011-12
   a. generation of value addition
   value of production
   (less excise duty)                        24765      29755       37077    47219    47815
   less -direct material, power & fuel       16383      17772       22031    27759    28717
   and payments to contractors
   value added                                8382      11983       15046    19460    19098
   less - other operating exp                 3355       3224        2982     3196     2479
   (net of income)
   net value addition                         5027       8759       12064    16264    16619
   % to value of production                 20.30%     29.44%       32.54%   34.44%   34.76%

   b. application of value addition

   employees payments                         5541       5450        5934     5753     5466
   % to net value addition                 110.23%     62.22%       49.19%   35.37%   32.89%
   depreciation                                 936      1077         983      953      800
   % to net value addition                  18.61%     12.30%        8.15%    5.86%    4.81%
   financing charges :
   -interest on borrowings                       27            92     133      125       51
   %to net value addition                    0.53%      1.05%        1.10%    0.77%    0.31%
   tax provision (income tax, def. tax         -563       721        1554     2818     3262
   & prior period)
   % to net value addition                 -11.21%      8.23%       12.88%   17.32%   19.63%
   dividend (incl. divident tax)                118       341         810     1544     1821
   % to net value addition                   2.34%      3.90%        6.71%    9.49%   10.95%
   retained profit                           -1031       1078        2651     5071     5219
   % to net value addition                 -20.51%     12.31%       21.97%   31.18%   31.41%




                                               42

                                                             sustainability report 2015-16




financial performance highlights




* orders worth ` 7429 crore have been excluded during the year from the order outstanding which
  are not likely to commence and this has no impact on revenue.




                                            43

sustainability report 2015-16




                                44

                                                                 sustainability report 2015-16



for detailed standalone and consolidated financial statements of bhel, the reader may please refer
to page 149-196 of bhel's annual report for 2015-16. some of the highlights of economic
performance have been shown in the figures above. for coverage of organisation's defined benefit
plan obligation, the readers may kindly refer to page 180-184 of bhel's annual report 2015-16.
as per our recruitment policy, generally, local hiring is not done in any cadre. recruitment to
induction level and to other levels, where approved by the competent authority, is normally from
the source mentioned below:
ø from open market through advertisement in the press. in addition, vacancies are notified to
  employment exchanges as per the provisions of the employment exchange (compulsory
  notification of vacancies) act, 1959, recognised associations and agencies who maintain rosters
  of suitable persons in different skills and specialities for promotion of the interests and welfare
  of scheduled castes/scheduled tribes, ex-servicemen and other similar special categories.
ø by considering departmental candidates possessing the specified requirements.
ø by absorption of deputationists from the central/ state governments and other public sector
  undertakings.
ø recruitment of specialists working abroad with experience in cutting edge technologies of
  relevance to bhel.
ø any other sources as approved by the competent authority in exceptional circumstances.
bhel being a public sector undertaking, the appointment and remuneration of cmd/ functional
directors are decided by the govt. of india. the terms of appointment of cmd/ directors, as
approved by the president of india, provides for fixation of certain perks and benefits like leased
accommodation, payment of hra, furnished accommodation, productivity linked incentive etc., as
per rules of bhel. the part-time non-executive directors are not paid any remuneration except
sitting fees to independent directors for attending meetings of the board or committee thereof.
the entry level wages are much higher than the minimum wages at all our locations of work and are
uniform across the organisation.
during the reporting period, no significant financial assistance has been received from the
government of india.
indirect economic impact on society
as a responsible corporate citizen mindful of its social responsibilities, bhel has been undertaking
various socio-economic and community development programmes since its inception. the
company has always endeavoured to bring about change in the lives of communities in the vicinity
of its manufacturing unit/divisions/sites.the activities being carried out inside our premises
requires many resources which we draw from the society. ultimately this interaction leads to a
multiplier effect as far as the indirect economic impact is concerned.
bhel has a structured csr programme in which the requirement of stakeholders in the vicinity of
our premises are identified and suitably addressed. it has led to the creation of a lot of public
infrastructure which have helped in improving the quality of life of these stakeholders in meaningful
ways. towards various csr initiatives, a total amount of ₹ 110.10 crore has been spent in 2015-16.
details of these activities have been provided in the chapter - “our societal performance” in this
report.


                                               45

  sustainability report 2015-16



it is the policy of the company to help the government in achieving its objectives of advancing the
socio-economic status of those belonging to weaker sections of the society. the company adheres
to and follows the presidential/ govt. directives/acts & rules concerning reservation of vacancies
and concessions allowed to candidates belonging to scheduled caste/scheduled tribes/ex-
serviceman/physically challenged/minority communities etc. and help the vulnerable section of
society in achieving inclusiveness in the society.
supporting marginal supply chain partners
bhel has been supporting micro and small enterprises (mses) and local suppliers in and around its
manufacturing units. regular vendor meets and supplier development programs are organised by
bhel units specifically for mses (including local suppliers). also, as mandated in the public
procurement policy-2012 for mses (issued by ministry of msme- govt. of india), bhel has achieved
the target of 20% of its total procurement from mses during 2015-16.




                                              46

                                                                   sustainability report 2015-16




                          our environmental performance

management approach - sustainability
with time global community realised that though rapid development is a must for enhancing the
quality of life of the world populace, but at the same time our natural capital needs to be protected
assiduously. that is where the concept of “sustainable development” (also known as triple bottom
line approach) fits in, which guides us through the path of development which is broad based
(equitable) benefitting the society to the maximum extent possible and attained through operating
within the confines of assimilative capacity of our natural environment. so for bhel, sustainability is
about enhancing stakeholder value while operating within the virtual boundary set by the
assimilative capacity of the natural environment and distributing the fruits of this created value in an
equitable manner.
since its inception, bhel has been leveraging technology and innovation for providing products,
systems and services to its customers and enabling them to use resources with better efficiency and
productivity which is evident from our mission statement – “providing sustainable business
solutions in the fields of energy, industry & infrastructure”. to help achieve the ecological
sustainability throughout our operations, we have been taking key projects & initiatives in the areas
of renewable energy generation through solar systems, tree plantation, water conservation, energy
efficiency, workplace environment improvement, resource conservation etc. megawatt scale solar
power plant at bap ranipet (5 mwp), hpep hyderabad (1.5 mwp) and trichy complex (5 mwp) are the
milestones in our journey towards ensuring environmental sustainability in our operations.
governance for sustainability
bhel believes that while governance for sustainability, stakeholder engagement and disclosure on
sustainability issues forms the bedrock for embedding sustainability within the organisational dna,
the performance on environmental and social issues linked with its business is the ultimate measure
of sustainability. to institutionalise the concept of sustainability, bhel has enunciated its
sustainability policy and ensures adherence to the guidelines on corporate social responsibility
(csr) and sustainability issued by department of public enterprises under ministry of heavy
industries and public enterprises for central public sector enterprises. bhel discloses its
performance on sustainability issues through annual sustainability report.
sustainability framework
bhel has formulated a 'sustainable development policy' in line with the scale and nature of
activities, products & services. this policy is the guiding force for us which inspires all our
endeavours to venture into the realms of sustainable development. focus areas have been
identified in our strategic plan for ensuring our continued impetus on sustainability through our
products, service and internal operations across the organisation. key projects & initiatives are
undertaken in the areas of renewable energy generation through solar power plants, energy
conservation through initiatives & projects, tree plantation, water conservation, energy efficiency,
workplace environment improvement, emissions reduction, resource conservation, and utilisation
of non-conventional energy sources.


                                                 47

  sustainability report 2015-16



like previous year key material issues pertaining to environmental indicators as identified for 2015-
16 are material usages, energy, water, effluents & waste management. the data pertaining to these
identified material issues are provided in the following sections.
responsible use of natural resources
conservation and effective utilisation of natural resources have become a mainstay in our business
process. the company has an institutionalised mechanism to recycle the products and wastes
generated to the extent feasible. for example, the general practice adopted to minimise waste
generation at source in use of steel plates are:
f computerised nesting plan of each steel plate to adjust maximum number of jobs in a plate
f preservation and reuse of off-cuts generated after nesting & using them for cutting out smaller
   jobs, like strong lifting lugs & tackles, etc.
many manufacturing units are having foundry shops wherein the recycling of local ferrous scrap
happens. these small but significant steps help us in reducing the use of precious natural resources
and consequently reducing the environmental footprint of bhel. further on an aggregate basis,
approx. 3-5% of materials used at bhel are recycled input material on account of the use of ferrous
scraps for making castings and forgings, etc.
at our central foundry & forge plant (cffp) located at haridwar, for making castings and forgings
molten steel is prepared using only ferrous scrap. the steel scrap used in the process is partly
generated in cffp itself and the rest is obtained from other manufacturing units and project sites,
thus making the molten steel produced an almost 100% recycled product. e-procurement in bhel is
also being implementing in phased manner as a business improvement initiative and sustainable
business practice.
due to large variation in our products and services and consequently varied input materials across
the organisation, measurement of material consumption in terms of weight or volume of raw
materials consumed in physical terms as per gri guidelines could not be established and
consequently the actual trend of material consumption could not be established at present in
absolute physical terms. further, our project sites have a cycle time of 3-5 years and the relationship
between gto and material consumption may not be correlated in a simple way. this present a
limitation to our data reporting as per the gri g4 guidelines.
however, the data about resource consumption by entire organisation in last 5 financial years is
presented in the figure below along with gross turn over (gto) figures. as shown in the figure, this
cost varied from 42% to 50% of our gto figures during the last 5 years and average stood at almost
46%. it is a clear indication of underlying gamut of opportunities and challenges for optimal use of
material resources and cost optimisation through better procurement practices. to enhance the
competitiveness of our products & services, various initiatives such as design optimisation;



                                                    48

                                                                 sustainability report 2015-16



enhancing performance parameters; de-packaging of bought-out-items & civil works; and
indigenization of supercritical technology have been taken up.




the concept of 3rs – reduce-recycle-reuse has been institutionalised by our units and projects
have been undertaken across various units of bhel for reduction/recycling/reuse of waste with an
objective of reducing the use of virgin material and consequently reducing the environmental
footprint of bhel.




                                              49

  sustainability report 2015-16




some of the specific activities related to optimal utilisation of natural resources undertaken during
2015-16 are indicated in the figure below:


       unit      activity
    heep         · utilisation of old packing boxes after repair /modification in wood
    haridwar       working shop.
                 · recovery of 155 drums (27.9 mt) of used /waste oil using coolant
                   recovery system and with the help of oil skimmers.

    hpep      · recycled 2107 mt of ms scrap, which is equivalent to 11% of input raw
    hyderabad   material.

    hep          · sand reclamation plant is under execution having capacity to convert 6 mt
    bhopal         of sand lumps (used sand) into usable sand per hour which would be then
                   mixed with 20% of fresh sand in an automatic mixer to produce up to 10
                   mt/hr. of prepared sand for moulding.




                                               50

                                                                  sustainability report 2015-16




       unit      activity

    hep          · at various shops, optimum utilisation of input raw material like steel plates
    bhopal         & crgo is being ensured. scrap steel, offcuts etc. are utilized in foundry
                   and remaining scrap is sold to authorised agencies for recycling.                      130




    herp         · dry leaves, canteen waste, waste paper etc. are used to make
    varanasi       vermicompost, which is a bio-organic fertiliser, with the help of
                   earthworm. the vermicompost produced is used as a manure in
                   horticulture.
    hpvp         · implementation of the concept of 5s across all sections of the factory
    vizag          resulted in improvement in productivity and better resource management.




energy
being an integrated power plant equipment manufacturer, bhel is quite conscious of the fact that
optimal utilisation of energy in our operations and services is not only a value proposition but also a
responsibility for the organisation. with this view, the company has promoted the activities related
to energy conservation, energy efficiency and usages of green energy in our premises. it helps us in
reducing our conventional energy usages, encourage the use of green energy in our energy mix and
drives us towards the path of sustainable energy usages.


                                                51

  sustainability report 2015-16



the total energy consumption across all the units of bhel for the last 5 years is shown in the figure. a
variety of fuels is being used across bhel which include diesel, super kerosene oil (sko), coal,
liquefied petroleum gas (lpg), regasified liquefied natural gas (rlng), dissolved acetylene (da),
furnace oil (fo) etc. bhel is moving towards more and more use of cleaner fuels like natural gas
which is being used in many units like heep haridwar, cffp haridwar, ip jagdishpur, epd bengaluru,
and lpg which is being used at hpep hyderabad and trichy unit. this year the diesel consumption in
our units has gone down drastically.



                 total direct & indirect energy consumption in bhel units in tj
                                energy       energy       energy       energy       energy
       description           consumed in consumed in consumed in consumed in consumed in
                             tj (2015-16) tj (2014-15) tj (2013-14) tj (2012-13) tj (2011-12)
       direct energy

     primary energy               2993.3         2845.89         2839.92         3226.86            3169
     (fuels consumed
     like diesel, coal,
     lpg, kerosene etc.)
     primary energy                29.26            25.34              3.9            0.29           0.07
     produced
     (through solar
     energy generation)
     indirect energy
     electricity consumed       1154.34              1093        1116.76           1330.8       1372.49
     total energy                 4176.9             3964            3961            4558           4542
     consumed (tj)
     gross turnover               26587            30947           40338            50156         49510
     (₹ crore)

     energy intensity               1.10             1.01            0.94            0.90           0.92
     (gj /lakh ₹ of gto)

     energy productivity            0.91             0.99            1.06            1.09           0.97
     (lakh ₹ gto
     achieved / gj)

     1 tera joules (tj) = 1000 giga joules (gj) = 106 mega joules = 109 kilo joules (kj) = 1012 joules



it may be noted that the data for pppu thirumayam has been added to the energy data for 2013-14,
2014-15 and 2015-16 and accordingly the data reported in earlier reports have been modified.


                                                     52

                                                                      sustainability report 2015-16




it may be noted that usage of coal in our operations have been coming down since last 2 years with
respect to energy derived from primary fuels. further, the usage of diesel have come down very
drastically in the last couple of years. this is largely due to fuel switch from diesel to rlng at our energy
intensive central foundry forge plant (cffp), haridwar through conversion of all oil-fired burner to
natural gas fired burners. further, our epd bangalore unit has switched over to rlng from lpg.




                                                   53

  sustainability report 2015-16




further on the tonnage basis, it can be seen that use of fuels like coal, diesel etc. which requires
physical carriage through means of transportation is going down which directly contributes
towards savings in indirect energy uses for transportation of fuels and thereby reducing the carbon
footprint of bhel.




                                               54

                                                                 sustainability report 2015-16




           energy intensity/productivity data for last 5 years
                                                                                        1.571


                                                                   1.281

           1.09                1.100
                                                 1.018

                                                 0.982
           0.92                 0.909
                                                                                       0.637
                                                                   0.781

      2011-12             2012-13             2013-14             2014-15             2015-16

              energy intensity (total energy used in gj / lakh of gto achieved)
              energy productivity (gto achieved in rs. lakh / gj total energy consumed)



the average energy intensity (defined as total energy consumed in giga joules per lakh ₹ of gross
turn over achieved) figures has stood at 1.132 and varied from 0.91 to 1.57 as shown in the figure.
similarly, the figure for energy productivity (defined as gto achieved in lakh of ₹ per giga joules of
total energy consumed) stood at an average of 0.925 for the last 5 years and varied from 0.637 to
1.10. however, it may be noted that the data for gto encompasses entire bhel whereas the energy
usage data is restricted to reporting boundary for environmental parameter only. it clearly
established the fact that the energy productivity was at its peak when the gto achieved was
maximum in the history of bhel. similarly, the energy intensity was at its lowest for 2012-13 when
the gto was at its peak.




                                                55

  sustainability report 2015-16



efforts in conservation of energy & energy efficiency
our energy management policy expresses our commitment for energy efficiency in all our activities,
products and services.




                                energy management policy
                 bhel is committed to continuously enhance energy efficiency in
                 all its activities, products and services through state-of-the-art
                 energy efficient, eco-friendly technologies and leverage energy
                 efficiency in its operations by adopting energy conservation
                 techniques with the participation of all employees.




   nature of activities pertaining to energy conservation (encon) regularly carried out
   in bhel:


   ·   energy awareness - conducting awareness programmes at offices, factories, project
       sites and in townships
   ·   energy conservation - identification of potentials to reduce use of energy, arresting
       leakages, use of alternate sources of energy, identifying wasteful use of energy and
       plugging them, use of energy measurement system for buildings etc.
   ·   energy efficiency - improving insulations in furnaces, plugging heat loss from heating
       systems, optimization of loading of furnaces, heat recovery systems, adopting high
       efficiency lighting systems, high efficiency pumps & motors, use of variable frequency
       drive (vfd) etc.
   ·   use of renewable energy resources
   ·   periodic energy audits for finding opportunities for improvements
   ·   adopting concepts of green buildings




                                               56

                                                                sustainability report 2015-16




                             energy audit was conducted by specialised agencies (like
                             cii/pcra/teri etc.) at hep bhopal, hpep-hyderabad,
                             epd-bengaluru, cfp-rudrapur, ip jagdishpur and csu & fp
                             jagdishpur units




                                       energy conservation projects (thirty-six) were
                                       implemented across the company as suggested by
                                       the specialised agencies in the energy audit reports.
highlights
of encon
activities
carried
out
during
2015-16                                national energy conservation day was celebrated
                                       across the company on 14th december by organizing
                                       various activities related to energy conservation




                             implementation of energy management system (iso
                             50001:2011) enables the organisation to establish the systems
                             and processes necessary to improve energy performance,
                             including energy efficiency, use and consumption. two units
                             (cffp-haridwar and trichy unit-2) were certified as iso 50001:
                             compliant units




list of major projects taken in the areas of energy efficiency/conservation during the reporting
period is given in the figure below. from the figure, it can be seen that the projects taken during
2015-16 are envisaged to provide a recurring annual saving of about 3.25 million units of electricity
per annum.


                                               57

sustainability report 2015-16




              major encon projects undertaken in bhel during 2015-16
            name of                                                               energy saving
sl. no.                                      project title
          unit/division                                                            (kw-hr/yr.)

  1                       installation of solar street lights in factory area -      32850
                          50 no.
  2         hpep-         establishment of 1.5 mwp solar power plant                2365200
          hyderabad
  3                       installation of 4kw ( 2 nos x 2 kw) solar power             5840
                          systems for lighting corridors of administrative
                          building
  4                       conditioning & monitoring of 8 number blowers              40000
                          of pressurization plant, 75 kw each in cim block.
  5                       replacement of heating elements of 170 kw                  15000
                          carburizing furnace of tgm.
  6                       complete renovation of 125 kw electric                     35000
                          annealing furnace 11/b/2255 in cim block.
  7                       provision of overhead lights at centre place of the        30000
          hep-bhopal
                          block with switching facility at the gate in fym
                          block.
  8                       renovation of 10 kw rating muffle furnace to                6000
                          reduce cycle time in tgm.
  9                       interconnection of about 50 nos. coolers (2kw              20000
                          rating) by a single switch to enable switching
                          them off during break times or shift change times
                          in tgm.
  10                      replacement of existing cfl light fitting with led         15987
                          energy efficiency street light fitting (50 nos.)
  11                      installation of 100 nos. self-ventilators in various       111791
                          shops
  12                      providing fluid coupling in place of clutch for 5          33000
                          tonne coil winding machines (2 nos.).
           tp-jhansi
  13                      arresting air leakage by using the clamp at                15385
                          connection points.
  14                      replacement of 500/1000 w floodlight by                     7692
                          48w/70wled- 20 nos.



                                              58

                                                               sustainability report 2015-16




              major encon projects undertaken in bhel during 2015-16
            name of                                                              energy saving
sl. no.                                       project title
          unit/division                                                           (kw-hr/yr.)

  15       tp-jhansi      installation of led street light.                         46153
  16      sstp-trichy     installation of motion detectors in office building        6628
                          for lighting circuit
  17        cffp-         installation of energy efficient hot water pump to        29000
           haridwar       owph
  18        heep          installation of 100 nos. of 36 w led indoor fittings      11242
           haridwar       in itx auditorium, engineering building
                          conference hall, nc technology conference hall
                          & osbt control room in place of 106 w
                          conventional fluorescent tube fittings.
  19                  electrically operated portable reciprocating air              82728
                      compressor of 24 cfm capacity to use exclusively
                      for form-line production areas to avoid under
                      load operation of the 1500cfm reciprocating
          bap-ranipet compressor during off-peak hours.
  20                  introduction of copper shrouded dsl in f3 bay                  5279
  21                      retrofitting of old 80 kw bearing test rig dc             28800
                          motor & drive to ac motor with vfd.
  22                      installation of new radiator for 1000kva dg set           42000
  23         cfp          replacement of 16 nos. 250 w sv street lights              7592
           rudrapur       with 120 w leds.
  24                      replacing 10 nos. 1.5 kw old man coolers with             16800
                          energy efficient motor man coolers.

  25                      replacement of 20 nos. of 250 watt mh lamp                13320
             ivp          fitting with 65 watt led street lighting.
           goindwal
  26                      replacement of 50 nos. of cfl 23 watt with                 3240
                          energy efficient led lamp 14 watt.

  27                      replacement of 100 nos. of t5 28 watt ftl with 18          3600
                          watt led tubes.

  28         edn          temperature sensors in cooling towers                      5993
           bengaluru




                                               59

  sustainability report 2015-16




                   major encon projects undertaken in bhel during 2015-16
                 name of                                                            energy saving
     sl. no.                                      project title
               unit/division                                                         (kw-hr/yr.)

       29         edn          air compressors are switched off during lunch           24408
                bengaluru      and tea breaks
       30         epd          energy efficient lighting for offices & work shops      78000
                bengaluru
       31                      energy saving system utilising efficient                121000
                               technologies (vfd's for continuous running fans)

       32                      replacement of 250 w hpsv light in tarna                 5780
                  herp         township by 85 w cfl light fitting-08 nos.
                 varanasi
       33                      replacement of 40 w tube light fitting by 18 w            432
                               led light fitting- 10 nos.

       34          ip          replacing old 70 w hpsv street light with 30 w          17885
               jagdishpur      led street light at factory (50 nos approx.)
       35                      replacement of existing 400 w street light with 90      39602
                               w led lamps (30 nos.)

       36                      replacement of existing 36 w ftl with 21 w led           2738
        .       csu & fp       lamps in shops and offices (50 nos.)                       .
               jagdishpur      replacement of existing 250 w mh roof lamp
       37                                                                              13688
                               with 100 w led lamps in fp shop (25 nos.)

       38                      replacement of existing 150 w street light with 45       3833
                               w led lamps in township (10 nos.)


various additional activities were also undertaken like process redesign, conversion and retrofitting
of equipments, educational programmes to bring changes in employees behaviour etc. these
activities have resulted in overall energy savings of 36.29 tj of energy, including 35.75 tj of indirect
energy saved in terms of electricity due to encon/ee activities during fy 2015-16. during the last 3
years, on an average 81.52 tera joules (tj) of energy usages have been avoided out of which 32.52 tj
was on account of fuel savings and rest 49 tj were saved on account of savings in the consumption
of electricity per annum. it may be noted that recurring savings has not been included in this data
and only fresh projects undertaken during the reporting period has been considered for calculation
of annual energy saving projections.
further, it may be noted that the absolute quantity of energy usages avoided on account of encon
activities have declined during the recent past. it may be attributed to the fact that in earlier times,
switching to cleaner fuels and energy efficient technologies have been taken at drastic pace as per
the requirement of business. however, with time, the scope in the uptake of newer energy efficient
technologies has reduced due to marginal returns and as most of the identified opportunities have


                                                 60

                                                                       sustainability report 2015-16


already been acted upon leaving lesser scope for newer projects and consequently lesser reporting
of annual energy usage avoidance in the recent past.




green energy generation
india has a huge solar power potential. as part of clean climate commitments, govt. of india has
setup a target for deployment of 100 gw solar power capacities by 2022. this includes 60 gw of
grid-connected ground mounted solar power and 40 gw of rooftop solar power. bhel offers epc
solutions from concept to commissioning for grid connected and stand-alone pv applications
ranging from kw to mw size plants which includes supply of pv modules and balance of system
(bos), civil works, erection & commissioning (e&c) and operations & maintenance (o&m). bhel
manufactures space grade spv modules and batteries in association with indian space research
organisation (isro). all indian satellites launched by isro are equipped with bhel manufactured
solar panels since 2002 and batteries since 2005.




              renovation and modernization of lighting system of itx auditorium – heep haridwar

                                                   61

  sustainability report 2015-16




    renovation and modernization of lighting system of new engineering building conference hall- heep haridwar

bhel being a major supplier of power plant equipments is very much aware of its social
responsibility for making conscious efforts towards the use of sustainable energy mix in its own
operations. use of renewable energy [solar power] in our manufacturing activities is gradually going
up on account of the generation of solar energy.
talking about mega watt scale solar installations – at bhel's bap-ranipet unit we have a 5 mwp grid
interactive solar power plant, at hpep-hyderabad unit we have a 1.5 mwp solar power plant and
further a 5 mwp solar power plant is under installation at our trichy unit. this will take total
installation capacity of mwp scale plants to 11.5 mwp. all of these are meant for captive use. further,
we have several kilo watt (kw) scale systems which add upto 734 kwp, including roof-top systems
installed across various units of bhel. overall these systems have generated around 16.35 million
units of green electricity since 2011-12 which is equivalent to 58.86 tera joules of energy.




                                                     62

                                                                  sustainability report 2015-16



bhel is enhancing the use of clean energy at its units/project sites through usage of solar pv based
street lights & solar water heating systems, installation of roof-top and grid interactive solar power
plants. list of major solar installations in our units as on 31.03.2016 along with particulars of
installed systems is given in the figure below.




                  list of major solar installations within bhel premise

               name of the
     sl no                                           details of installed system
               unit/division

      1       hep bhopal               250 kwp spv plant

      2       r&d hyderabad            250 kwp spv plant

      3       r&d hyderabad            13.7 kwp rooftop solar power system

      4       r&d hyderabad            13.5 kwp rooftop solar power system

      5       esd bengaluru            42 kwp rooftop solar power plant

      6       trichy unit              20 kwp grid connected rooftop solar power plant

      7       trichy unit              10 nos. 24 w solar led street lights

      8       trichy unit              80 nos. 40 w solar led street light

      9       trichy unit              2000 litre per day (lpd) solar water heater system

      10      trichy unit              4000 litre per day (lpd) solar water heater system

      11      bap ranipet              17.5 kwp rooftop solar power unit

      12      bap ranipet              5 mwp grid interactive spv plant

      13      hpep hyderabad           1.5 mwp grid interactive spv plant

      14      pppu thirumayam          solar water heater, solar street lights etc.



going by the trend of green energy generation across bhel, it has grown exponentially during the
last 3 years due to the installation of mega watt scale plants. considering overall energy data for
electricity purchase for 2015-16, it can be seen that in our units 2933 tj of energy generated as
electricity was used out of which 29.26 tj was sourced through solar energy generation. it is
equivalent to 1% of the overall energy usages through electricity for the organisation during 2015-
16. the data for green energy used as a percentage of total energy used in entire organisation
during 2014-15 stood at 0.81% and during 2013-14 at 0.10%.



                                                63

  sustainability report 2015-16




    thrust areas pertaining to generation/ use of renewable energy in bhel's units/divisions
    f installation of roof top solar pv systems
    f installation of solar water heating systems
    f installation of grid interactive spv power plants (sub-mw and mw scale)
    f installation of solar street lights




              60 kwp photo- voltaic panels mounted on new engineering building at edn bengaluru



water usages & its conservation in our premises
we at bhel believe that since water is a common natural resource, it is our fiduciary duty to use it
efficiently. efficient usages of water inside the organisation is a value proposition as well. we always
strive for managing the water and wastewater system in our premises in a sustainable manner to
meet the requirements and expectations of our stakeholders. this is the premise which enabled us
in making water management a part of our strategy and despite our growth in the past, our water
consumptions have not changed significantly. keeping the broader objectives of our country's
national water policy 2012 which lays emphasis on water reuse / recycle and making our industrial
units as zero liquid discharge (zld) units, many of our units have already achieved the status of zld
plant and remaining units are working towards achieving this objective.




                                                   64

     sustainability report 2015-16




65

  sustainability report 2015-16



as can be seen from the figure, the average quantity of water drawn from different sources at our
units during the last 5 years stood at 15.73 million cubic metre. further, the contribution of different
water sources is also shown in the figure. as evident from the figure, groundwater is the major
source of water in our units followed by surface water and municipal supply. further, it may also be
noted that at our epd bengaluru unit, rainwater is collected and used inside the premise. in our
premises, water saving is done through creating awareness in employees, measuring water
consumption, ensuring optimum use of water, recycling of water, installing water saving
equipments, routine checks for pipes leakages etc.
during the reporting period, a total volume of 3.47 million m3 of effluent was discharged from
various manufacturing units of bhel which is nearly 22.37% of water drawn for 2015-16. all the
waste water quality related parameters were within the prescribed limit of discharge as specified by
the respective state pollution control boards at the locations of our manufacturing units.




                              water recycled / reused at units of bhel

                                                      41.52                 40.82

                                                                                              36.60

         28.82                 29.61




                                                      6.47                   6.82
           4.85                4.54                                                            5.68



         2011-12              2012-13                2013-14                2014-15           2015-16
                             total quantity recycled & reused (million cubic metre)
                             qty of water recycled & reused as a % of total water withdrawl




further, water recycling/reuse is a normal practice in our manufacturing units. the used water is
mostly treated locally and reused for horticulture purposes. during last 5 years, a total quantity of
28.36 million m3. of water has been reused/recycled in our premises which amount to an average of
5.67 million m3 of water recycled/reused per annum during the last 5 years.




                                                   66

                                                                  sustainability report 2015-16




                     water balance across bhel premises

                                                 5.38                6.55                 6.37
         7.76                6.86

                                                 3.73                3.33                 3.47
         4.22                3.94

                                                 6.47                6.82                 5.68
         4.85                4.54


       2011-12             2012-13             2013-14             2014-15             2015-16

                total quantity recycled & reused (million cubic metre)
                total quantity of effluent discharged (million cubic metre)
                quantity of other usages inside the premises (million cubic metre)


the water balance figure is shown in the picture above. in this figure, other usages include the use of
water in the process, water losses etc. bhel is not a water-intensive manufacturing industry and as
such, there is no water source which is significantly affected by the withdrawal of water by bhel
units.
some specific activities being carried out inside our premises related to water conservation,
recycling and reuse are listed below.


                   specific water conservation activities across bhel units
       ø    all units have built rainwater harvesting systems for recharging the
            groundwater table.
       ø    epd-bengaluru unit has exhausted almost 100% of its rainwater harvesting
            potential.
       ø    treatment of trade effluents, its recycling/reuse and then draining remaining
            quantity.
       ø    herp-varanasi has become a zero waste water discharge unit, where the water,
            used as coolant, is recycled and finally exhausted within the process.
       ø    at hpbp trichy unit, 100% of treated trade effluent is used for irrigation purpose
            within the complex to maintain zero discharge
       ø    at sstp-trichy unit: recycling of hydro test water, cooling tower, treated
            sewage water from township and factory



                                                67

  sustainability report 2015-16




        ø   pppu-thirumayam unit: treated water is reused for horticulture activities inside
            the factory premise – a zero liquid discharge unit.

        ø   in tp-jhansi unit, water recycling is done within the processes, for e.g. steam is
            condensed into water, which is recycled back into the boiler

        ø   in compliance with environmental norms, the quality parameters of discharged
            water are within limits for each and every bhel unit, as specified by the
            respective state pollution control boards

        ø    at bap, ranipet unit only the treated water from stp is used for horticulture

        ø   at hep bhopal, almost 55% of water is recycled & used in industrial cooling and
            in horticulture. firefighting reservoir is also maintained using treated water.




biodiversity conservation within our premises

none of our units is surrounded by any biodiversity reserve or protected area. with respect to its
concern for environmental protection and soil conservation, bhel has undertaken afforestation
activities such as mass tree plantation and development of green belt which has resulted in
development of nearly 4.7 million m2 of green coverage and plantation of nearly 3 million trees.

however, as far as the significant impact of our operations/activities on biodiversity is concerned,
there is no significant impact of our activities on biodiversity and as such, there is no habitat which is
being protected or restored by the company.




                                                  68

                                                                                       sustainability report 2015-16



managing emissions and carbon footprint
all emissions are being monitored in bhel units as per the requirements of applicable environment
related acts and rules. records are being maintained and the same is being reported to relevant
statutory authorities from time to time as per the statutory requirements. monitoring and control of
emissions from boiler & gas plant furnaces are undertaken regularly to maintain emissions levels
below the permissible limits. the quality of all emissions into air are monitored and are always found
to be within the permissible limits prescribed by respective state pollution control boards (spcb)
and central pollution control boards (cpcb).


                                                                                 fume extraction system at hep
                                                                                 bhopal:
                                                                                 installed 50,000 m3 per hr. suction
                                                                                 capacity fume extraction system
                                                                                 over 3.0 ton 1500 kilowatt arc
                                                                                 furnace.
                                                                                 salient features:
                                                                                 ·   system is capturing around 300
                                                                                     kg of fine dust from average 25
                                                                                     heats which were previously
                                                                                     emitted into the atmosphere.
                                                                                 ·   high capacity bag filters with
                                                                                     total surface area of 760 m2
                                                                                 ·   online monitoring of exhaust,
                                                                                     suspended particulate matter.
                                                                                 ·   variable speed induced draft fan
                                                                                     (100 hp)
                                                                                 ·   30 metre high chimney.
                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~




         fume suction arm on induction furnace                              fume suction arm for mould pouring area




                                                 69

  sustainability report 2015-16



however, as regards to gri g4 requirements for capturing the weight of pollutants being let out
from the organisation, we are yet to develop a system to quantify the emissions of all the major
pollutants like nox, sox, pm2.5, pm10 etc.
use of ozone depleting substances (ods) in refrigerators and chillers is under phase out process
across our units in line with the government's commitment under montreal protocol. as a matter of
fact, it has already been discontinued altogether at most of our units. during 2015-16, the quantity
of ods used stood at 16.3 kg cfc-11 equivalent which is showing a declining trend. the
corresponding quantity of ods used in 2014-15 was 261.5 kg cfc-11 equivalent, 282 kg cfc-11
equivalent during 2013-14 and 307.88 kg cfc-11 equivalent during 2012-13. the new machines
procured in our units are using refrigerants like r-134a, r-410a etc. which are more environment-
friendly and having fewer odp values.
further, all our units have initiated their carbon footprint calculation for scope-1 and scope-2
emissions. the inventory of ghg emissions is being maintained at unit level and consolidated
carbon footprint figure for the organisation is being arrived at.
for calculation of scope-1 emissions, appropriate unfccc protocol has been
followed and emission factor for stationary combustion has been used. for the calculation of
scope-2 emission due to usages of purchased electricity in our premise, average
grid emission factor has been taken as 0.99 mt co2-e/mwh using the cea data.
(ref: http://cea.nic.in/reports/others/thermal/tpece/cdm_co2/user_guide_ver11.pdf) and applying
appropriate cdm methodology for calculation. at the moment scope - 3 emissions on account of
supply chain, employee commute etc. is not being captured and credible data for the same is not
available.



            carbon emission across bhel units (mt co2-e)
            681092

                               561440                             574996
                                                477902
      350143                                                                            469699
          330950               321413                                                317442
                                               273402      278663 296333
                      240027
                                         204500
                                                                              152257




        2011-12           2012-13            2013-14           2014-15             2015-16

                          scope-1             scope-2            total emissions




                                               70

                                                                      sustainability report 2015-16



the total emission for the last 5 years stood at 2.77 million metric tonnes (mmt) of co2 equivalent
(mmt co2-e) indicating an average annual emission figure of 0.55 mmt co2-e. it may be noted that
during 2012-13, our gross turnover was all time high. however, the corresponding emission was not
at its peak.
as can be seen from the figure, the aggregate carbon footprint of our units is showing a declining
trend. scope-1 emissions have come down consistently during the last 5 years. it shows that the use
of fuels which are cleaner is being increasingly used across bhel.
it is pertinent to mention here that the major impact of our products is beyond our premises and at
the customer's end during use. however, it is our endeavor to provide greener technologies having
lesser carbon footprint to our customers. the quantification of such emissions is beyond our scope.
the figure below gives the information about the electricity purchased by our manufacturing units
during the last 5 years and indirect emission (scope-2) associated with it. the calculation has been
done using the grid emission factor for both the electricity grids in india and the same has been
shown in the table below. it may be noted that during 2015-16, the grid has become integrated and
so there is only one emission factor for the entire grid of the country.


   year                                              2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16

   emission factor (tco2/mwh) for newne grid         0.9       0.9         0.9        0.98
                                                                                                   0.99
   emission factor (tco2/mwh) for southern grid      0.85      0.85        0.85       0.97




                 scope -2 emissions against electricity procured data
                389011


                                   369666


                                321413                312736                                   320649
                                                                        306664
               330950
                                                                                                317442
                                                                             296333


                                                  273402

          2011-12           2012-13               2013-14             2014-15                2015-16

                                               -e)             electricity units procured (mw-hr)



                                                   71

  sustainability report 2015-16



the data for carbon intensity defined as carbon footprint in mt co2-e per crore ₹ of gross turnover
and carbon productivity defined as gross turnover achieved in lakh ₹ per unit of carbon footprint
in mt co2-e is shown in the following figure. the average figure of carbon intensity stood at 14.61
mt co2-e per crore ₹ of gto, indicating that for ₹ 1 crore of gross turnover achieved during the last
5 years on an average 14.61 mt of co2-equivalent was released in atmosphere. similarly talking
about the figure of carbon productivity, the average figure for last 5 years stood at ₹ 7.14 lakh per
mt co2-e, indicating that for each mt co2-e emission a corresponding gto of ₹ 7.14 lakh was
achieved. however, it may also be seen that though during 2012-13 the organisation achieved a
record gto, but neither the carbon intensity was at its maximum nor the carbon productivity at
minimum during 2012-13. further, the data for carbon intensity has started increasing during the
last 3 years on account of drastic reduction in gross turnover achieved.




                                                          2


                                                                           2




however, it may be noted that the gto has been taken for entire bhel whereas the emissions have
been considered only for units under the reporting boundary. the figure is being presented here
only for comparison purpose as the reporting boundary has been same for the data presented here.
the analysis of this trend is not done thus far due to a complex interplay of our product line,
turnover, outsourcing and other miscellaneous factors which contribute towards carbon
intensity/productivity.



                                                72

                                                                   sustainability report 2015-16




the contribution of major fuels used across bhel contributing in scope-1 emission is shown in the
figure. as it can be seen from the figure, there is a consistent reduction in scope-1 emission which
may be attributed to the following factors:
·    lesser gross turnover requiring less fuel
·    enhanced use of cleaner fuels in our operations
·    due to generation of green solar energy inside our premises
·    better electricity availability position



         contribution of major fuels used in units in scope-1 emission (mt co2-e)

     sl no   fuel             2011-12           2012-13   2013-14      2014-15       2015-16
     1       diesel           170959            84364     64923        69030         2097
     2       coal             100004            91718     77448        64020         35242
     3       lpg              50409             45537     36392        34574         33479
     4       da               1664              1378      2            42108         8420
     5       sko              15176             0         0            0             18896
     6       fo               794               4004      2902         11975         16662
     7       rlng             11137             13026     22834        56956         37462
             total            350143            240027    204500       278663        152257




                                                    73

  sustainability report 2015-16



as can be seen from the figure, the contribution of diesel in overall scope-1 emission has decreased
drastically during last 3 years. the contribution of emissions due to rlng has gone up significantly
indicating a shift from more polluting fuel to the less polluting source of energy. the decrease in
carbon footprint contribution due to lpg can be attributed to the fact that at cffp and epd
bengaluru, fuel switch has occurred from lpg to rlng. the emission level is showing a consistently
declining trend.




               contribution of different fuel sources used in
                           direct emission (%)

   2015-16     1%      23%                     22%        6%     12%         11%           25%

   2014-15            25%                      23%             12%         15%     4%           20%

   2013-14                32%                             38%                       18%     1% 11%

   2012-13                  35%                                38%                  19%         1%2% 5%

   2011-12                         49%                                 29%                14%    4% 3%

             0%     10%      20%         30%     40%      50%        60%     70%    80%         90%   100%

                          diesel     coal        lpg      da     sko       fo      rlng



although, we are not capturing the data for scope-3 emission yet but it is evident that we are
reducing our scope-3 emissions since we are increasing the use of rlng which is supplied through
pipelines and does not require physical carriage through conventional means of transportation like
tanker etc.
due to sustained efforts for reducing our carbon footprint through various means like energy
efficiency & conservation efforts and enhancing usages of solar energy generated in-house, we
have avoided a significant amount of carbon emission. as can be seen from the figure, a significant
amount of direct emission has been avoided during 2011-12, 2012-13 & 2013-14. it may be
attributed to improvement in the calorific value of fuel, fuel saving due to process improvement, fuel
switch to cleaner fuels which has led to avoidance of scope-1 emissions in a considerable way.




                                                     74

                                                                 sustainability report 2015-16




the average and cumulative carbon footprint avoided during the last five years stood at 17393.2
metric tonnes of carbon dioxide – equivalent (mt co2-e) and 86966 mt co2-e. it included
cumulative avoidance of scope-1 emissions to the tune of 49681 mt of co2-e and scope-2
emissions of around 37195 mt co2-e. it may be noted that the calculation for carbon emission
avoidance has been done on projected annual energy saving basis and we don't have a procedure in
place to measure the exact saving in energy and consequent carbon emission avoidance.
in addition to it, a significant amount of scope-2 emission is avoided due to the generation of green
energy inside our premises. a 1.5 mwp solar power plant has been commissioned in dec'15 at our
hpep hyderabad unit. this has resulted in an addition of already existing 5 mwp generation capacity
of solar energy at bap ranipet unit. further, a 5 mwp plant is under installation at our trichy unit.
during the reporting period, many solar street lights, rooftop solar power plants, solar water heaters
etc. have been installed which has resulted in enhancement of our green energy generation
capacity.




                                                75

  sustainability report 2015-16




as indicated, we have reduced the consumption of diesel and other conventional fuels which
require transportation by road thereby reducing the scope-3 emission on account of carriage of
these fuels through road transport. however, no quantification is available for these savings.
responsible waste management
we at bhel strongly believe in the popular quote “waste is just a resource in the wrong place”. bhel
has been very conscious about its responsibilities towards conservation and protection of
environment right from its inception. we firmly believe that sound waste management is very
critical for the success of environmental management system. it is not only critical for ensuring
cleanliness, prevention of pollution and conservation of resources, but also very important as a
strategic tool for sustainability of businesses. sound waste management is considered to be one of
the main pillars of the concept of sustainability.
in view of this, responsible waste management has always been an important thrust area in bhel.
the principle of 3r (reduce-recycle-reuse) is practised widely in our organisation. at the planning
stage, efforts are made to minimise the waste. the company has an institutionalised mechanism to
recycle wastes in-house to the extent feasible. for example, each mt of the molten steel produced at
our cffp unit contains 54% of the recycled scrap (of cffp) and 45% of ms scrap (from other bhel
units), thus making it an almost a 100% recycled product. various coolants used in our machines are
recovered after use and recycled again after appropriate treatment.




                                                     76

                                                             sustainability report 2015-16



different types of wastes generated in units are segregated at sources and stored and handled in
environmentally safe manner. wastes are categorised in categories like metallic (ferrous & non-


                                                                            dry leaves,
                                                                            canteen wastes,
                                                                            waste paper etc.
                                                                            are used to
                                                                            m a ke ve rm i -
                                                                            compost, which
                                                                            is a bio-organic
                                                                            f e r t i l i z e r.
                                                                            presently, the
                                                                            total annual
                                                                            vermi-compost
                                                                            production at
                                                                            herp, varanasi
                                                                            unit is approx. 2
                                                                            mt per annum.


ferrous wastes), non-metallic wastes,
hazardous wastes, non-hazardous wastes,
municipal wastes etc. all metallic & non-
metallic wastes having resale value and which
can be reused/recycled are sold to authorised
recyclers through a government agency,
namely mstc. hazardous wastes which have
resale value are sold to authorised
recyclers/processers through mstc. other
hazardous wastes are handled, stored and
disposed of as per prescribed methodology
for such wastes. e-wastes are also collected
and stored in environmentally safe manner
and finally sold to authorised agencies.
it clearly shows the seriousness of the
organisation to tackle the waste generated in
our operations in a responsible manner. the
data for the waste generation for the last 5
years is shown in the figure below. some of the
ferrous scraps are sent to cffp haridwar for
recycling.




                                                  77

  sustainability report 2015-16




                     hazardous and non-hazardous wastes generated at units
     type of             quantity quantity quantity quantity quantity                        disposal
                 unit
     wastes             (2015-16) (2014-15) (2013-14) (2012-13) (2011-12)                    method
    non -       mt         33933          57385.1     100902.7 69661.7        76522.1       sold to
                                                                                            the
    hazardous cum          1249.6         1140        1050       7778.0       9863.2        authorised
                                                                                            users/
    hazardous mt           5309.8         6185.0      6877.1     8286.9       3426.0
                                                                                            disposal
                cum        0              398.4       0.0        0.0          0.0           facility


                                  waste reused / recycled at units
     type of
                 unit quantity quantity      quantity quantity quantity remarks
     wastes             (2015-16) (2014-15) (2013-14) (2012-13) (2011-12)
    non -       mt      33591      9708       6415.28 3761.48 2373        includes ferrous as well as non-
                                                                          ferrous materials
                                                                          mostly wood waste reused for
    hazardous   m3      1249       1140       1050        1260   640      making packing boxes

    hazardous   mt      1059       92         3.62        4.11   4.0      used oil and other materials
                                                                          reused inside or sold to
                                                                          authorised recyclers




as can be seen from the figure almost all the non-hazardous waste generated are either
recycled/reused inside our premises, sent to cffp haridwar or sold to the authorised agencies for
recycling. further, there has been no hazardous waste as per basel convention which has been
shipped internationally. the waste generated has decreased during 2015-16. this may be attributed
to lesser physical turnover and efficient use of material leading to reduction in waste generated.




            sample of waste management activities conducted during 2015-16
     unit                      activity
     herp- varanasi            2 mt of vermicompost, a bio-organic fertiliser was produced
                               using canteen & horticulture wastes
     heep-haridwar             recovered about 27.9 mt of used /waste oil through coolant
                               recovery system.
                               utilised old packing boxes after repair /modification in wood
                               working shop
     hpvp-vizag                sent 668 mt of melting scrap to cffp-haridwar unit for reuse as
                               raw material in steel melting shop.




                                                     78

                                                                    sustainability report 2015-16



initiatives taken to reduce environmental footprint of our products and services
bhel is contributing to a greener environment through the development of environment-friendly
technologies and improvement in efficiency of the products. continuous improvement in cycle
efficiency and reduced emissions have been achieved over time by the evolution of technology
from subcritical to supercritical. the performance of bhel supplied power plant equipments are
driven by lower auxiliary power consumption, higher plant efficiency, lower design heat rate &
better plf, all resulting in lower life cycle cost. some of the steps taken in this direction are detailed
below:
power sector
·   continuous improvement in cycle efficiency and reduced emissions has been achieved over
    time by the evolution of technology from subcritical to supercritical, ultra supercritical and
    advanced ultra supercritical technologies (ausc). details are as given in the table below:


    plant type with power       steam pressure
                                   waste            steam at units
                                         reused / recycled      efficiency (%)         co2 emissions
    rating                         (kg/cm2)    temperature(oc)                          (g/kw-hr)

    sub-critical (500 mwe )             170              540               35                 900
    super critical                      247              565               40                 830
    ultra super critical                250              600               42                 784
    advanced ultra super                310              710               46                 740
    critical




· development efforts have been undertaken to achieve breakthrough improvement in cycle
  efficiency by designing power plants to advanced supercritical (ausc) parameters of 310 bar
  and 710oc. the project has ntpc and igcar as consortium partners.
· efficiency improvement in various power plant equipment is pursued by improving efficiency
  and reducing direct energy loss. bhel make ht motors have now an improved efficiency upto
  98%. bhel has developed energy efficient igbt based 1mw high-performance low voltage
  variable frequency drive (vfd) which has been successfully tested for all its design features on 25
  hp induction motor.
· environment-friendly air cooled condensers (acc) have collectively improved operating
  efficiency and helped in the conservation of valuable resources like water. in a typical 2 x500 mw
  thermal power plant the requirement of cooling water make-up can be eliminated and as a result
  water requirement can be reduced by almost 70 % by using acc. bhel is currently executing acc
  based supercritical thermal power plant for 3 x 660 mw ntpc-north karanpura.
· to reduce emissions and meet the stringent new emission norms, bhel has initiated several
  measures like modification in boiler design, improvement in collection efficiency of esps;
  installation of fgd systems for sox capture, modifications in the wind box firing system of boilers
  and development of scr catalyst for nox reduction.


                                                 79

  sustainability report 2015-16



· bhel developed a 'nox and ozone levels evaluation tool' to estimate nox and residual ozone
  emissions formed in electro static precipitator (esp) using artificial neural network (ann) to
  predict nox values at esp outlet. the work has resulted in the precise estimation of nox and
  residual ozone at esp.
· bhel is also carrying out research in developing technologies related to co2 capture namely;
   ø   oxy-blown combustion-systems development and performance demonstration
   ø   membrane electrode assembly (mea) based co2 capture systems (post- combustion
       techniques)
   ø   chemical looped combustion technology demonstration
   ø   algal-based co2 decomposition of industrial flue gases
   ø   oxy-blown igcc gasification for h2 production and syngas to liquid fuel conversion.
renewables
· bhel presently has a manufacturing capacity of 8 mw (cell) and 26 mw (module) which is
  planned to be increased to 105 mw (cell) & 226 mw (module) by oct'16.
· continuous r&d in the field has resulted in bhel achieving solar cell efficiency up to 18.4% for
  monocrystalline and 17.5% for multi-crystalline cells, which is among the best in the world.
· bhel has demonstrated a 100 kwp solar pv plant consisting of 50 kwp spv system using 18 nos.
  of 2.8 kwp capacity polar axis passive trackers and a 50 kwp spv system using 36 nos. of 1.4 kwp
  capacity horizontal axis passive trackers. this development has led to increased energy output by
  15 to 20% with respect to modules mounted on the fixed tilt structures.
· electric vehicle mobility is fast gaining recognition as the future mode of transportation. bhel
  under a consortium with national automotive board (nab) and m/s. ashok leyland is
  developing motors / alternators, igbt controllers and vcu hardware for electric powered
  vehicles.
· bhel has developed 1 kw pem (proton exchange membrane) fuel cell stack for strategic
  applications in defence.
innovation capability and a culture of creative development are important drivers for achieving
growth. bhel's r&d strategy, structure and infrastructure are aligned to meet the challenges of the
present and future business environment. to meet the requirements of a dynamic market, the
company is focusing its r&d efforts on developing new products and processes using state-of-the-
art technologies and also improving the performance and efficiency of existing products.
over the years, bhel entered into technology collaboration agreements with leading global
manufacturing and engineering companies, such as general electric of united states, siemens ag
germany, mitsubishi heavy industries ltd. japan and abb group switzerland. the company has
successfully indigenized these technologies to meet the requirements of indian customers and
manufacturing at its own facilities. today, with twelve ongoing collaborations, bhel is focusing on
successful adaptation and timely absorption of these technologies.


                                              80

                                                               sustainability report 2015-16




     people capabilities




further, in-house r&d efforts are focused on meeting customers' specific needs for any
derivative/modified products, diversification, site support and product lifecycle improvement. for
details about r&d in bhel, the reader may please refer to page 89-94 of bhel's annual report
2015-16.
management of significant spills
no significant spills were reported in any of the manufacturing units during the reporting period.
further, there are no water body and related habitats which are significantly affected by our
discharge of water and runoff.
compliance
all major units and divisions of bhel have well established environment management systems
(ems) certified to iso-14001: 2004 and occupational health and safety management systems
(ohsms) certified to ohsas 18001: 2007. these management systems provide an excellent
framework for proactively identifying and ensuring compliance with applicable environmental,
occupation health and safety related rules and regulations. periodic audits are carried out by the
certifying agencies to ensure effective implementation of the established systems, including legal
compliance.
all applicable environmental consents, authorisation & licenses are maintained and their terms &
conditions are complied with. further none of the units has been imposed with any monetary fines
and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations during
the reporting period.
environmental protection expenditure
bhel has been taking numerous initiatives for improvement of the environment in and around its
units under sustainable development and incurring expenditure for the same. these include
expenditure on monitoring of stack emissions & ambient air quality, expenses on obtaining
consents/authorisations under various environmental legislations, expenses on certifications of iso
14001 & ohsas 18001, expenses on installation of new environment friendly technologies,


                                              81

  sustainability report 2015-16




               expenditure on environment protection ( ` lakhs)


                                                                 1252

                                                                                    1006
                                               920
                            852

         662




       2011-12            2012-13            2013-14            2014-15            2015-16


expenses on an insurance for environmental liabilities, and expenses on projects taken for
environment improvement. the expenditure incurred on such activities during last 5 years is shown
in the figure. it indicates that a total amount of ₹ 4692 lakh has been spent in the last 5 years on
environment protection activities from the revenue budget. this data does not include the salary of
officials engaged in environmental management activities.




                                               82

                                                                 sustainability report 2015-16




                                our social performance

management approach - labour practices & decent work
bhel has been a torchbearer in the area of human resource management (hrm) and has
documented hr policies and rules in the form of a codified personnel manual. this manual serves
the dual purpose of providing information on the benefits & entitlements for the employees as well
as to ensure transparency and uniformity of implementation which is the cornerstone of corporate
governance. hr's pole star statement is “to ensure availability of competent, motivated and
effectively contributing human resource and to facilitate achievement of the full potential of
employees at all times to realise the organisational mission.”
as digital tools and technologies are profoundly differentiating the way business is being
conducted, bhel has put in place an organisational structure to embrace it as a strategic tool for
opening up the new stream of opportunities in new as well as traditional business areas. most
importantly, to fulfil this target of a robust organisation, we have an unhindered focus on the people
development strategy which is today driven by the growing aspirations of the millennial generation
of the company. we are embracing social technologies for increasing employee engagement and
working towards the development of employee competencies in line with the business plans
through the implementation of various learning & development initiatives.
bhel policies are in line with the principles of human rights, the constitution of india, and various
applicable laws. bhel has special provisions for ensuring the safeguard of women employee at the
workplace. no instance of human rights abuse has been reported in the company.
the company strongly advocates the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. it
neither subscribes to nor indulges in such coercive practices. towards this, it never asks its
employees to deposit their original documents pertaining to their educational qualifications or
date of birth. uniform set of rules are mentioned in “personnel policy” of bhel, which apply equally
to all employees, irrespective of factors such as sex, caste, religion, race etc. all recruitments are
conducted in a transparent and impartial manner, giving equal opportunity to all eligible
candidates, without any discrimination whatsoever.
profile of the employee base
bhel has a highly committed employee base spread across the entire country and stood at 42,198
regular employees as on 31st march 2016 out of which around 2300 are female employees.
employee attrition rate of bhel is less than 1%.
bhel does not hire employees on the temporary/casual basis. however, bhel awards job/works
contracts to contractors at its various units/divisions/departments as per organisational needs. the
number of workers with contractors varies from time to time. some of the major benefits provided
to the bhel employees include provident fund, employees' family pension scheme, earned leave,
half pay leave, gratuity, bonus, medical and post-retirement medical benefits.
in line with the growing aspirations of the millennial generation of the company, the people
development strategy of bhel is focusing on developing employees' competencies in alignment
with the business plans through the implementation of initiatives like e-learning modules and focus
on technical & behavioural training.



                                                83

  sustainability report 2015-16



number of permanent employees with disabilities as on 31-03-2016 was 929. bhel has 30
participating unions in respect of workmen. there are two employee associations, one for
executives and one for supervisors. the percentage of permanent employees who are members of
recognised employee association is not available.
in bhel, manpower sanctions are based on the business requirements and are not vacancy based. it
is based on an annual review and aligned to the business requirements. in this regard, manpower
planning in bhel is inter-alia dependent on:




     present order book, anticipated orders and company financials
     manpower wastages
     skill gaps occurring due to technological advances.


also, recruitment activities in bhel have been completely aligned with government guidelines as
well as presidential directives issued from time to time.
performance and career development
under the people development initiatives, bhel executives have gone through technical
competency assessments. assessment of individual executives was conducted at major units and
regions. competency gaps have been identified for desired vis-a-vis possessed levels. these
competency gaps have been used for development of in-house training needs identification
module (tni) and are translated into development programmes through company's training
institutes/centres.
as regard to the assessment of behavioural competencies, around 2000 executives have been
assessed through shl psychometric tool. based on the results of the shl psychometric tool,
individual development plans are available for all executives who have further prepared a time-
bound action plan for their developmental areas. to prepare and align young employees to face
company's challenges and to encourage healthy competition, initiatives like 'best employee of the
quarter' and 'high potential (hipo) employees scheme' have been initiated. under the hipo scheme,
210 hipos have been identified amongst the mid-level executives. the grooming process for such
executives, as envisaged in the scheme has been initiated in the units. in 'best employee of the
quarter' scheme, 1200 applications were received during the year and 320 awards have been given
in different categories.
labour / management relations
in bhel, there are three distinct cadres of employees namely workmen, supervisors and executives.
out of these, only the workmen cadre, which constitutes approximately 53% of total manpower
strength, are covered by agreements on issues like wages, perks & allowances, incentive, etc.,
arrived at through the process of collective bargaining in the joint committee for bhel. the
industrial relations' scenario in the various manufacturing units and the business sector/offices of
the company remained harmonious and peaceful during the year 2015-16. no man-days were lost
during the year on this account.



                                               84

                                                                sustainability report 2015-16



the thrust on participative culture and communication continued during the year. two meetings of
the apex level bipartite forum, namely "joint committee for bhel" were held during the year. in
bhel, “plant council” is the unit level committee and is responsible for the overall working of the
unit and it discusses matters which have unit wide repercussions. the plant council is having
representation from management as well as workers. then further there are “shop councils” which
are departmental level committees dealing with the departmental level operations & issues. it is
also having representation from management as well as workers. there were 57meetings of the
“plant council” and 464 meetings of the “shop council” during the reporting period.
in addition, meetings were also held with the representatives of executives and supervisors of the
various manufacturing units including the business sector/offices. the focus of discussions in the
various fora centred on improvement of the overall performance of the company. the main thrust
was on the issues related to increasing the productivity of the employees, cost reduction, quality
and sequential delivery in order to meet our commitments to customers.
further, quality circle (qc) movement in bhel which is being driven by workmen & supervisors is
the role model in the country. every year, inter-unit annual qc summit is held in bhel where the qcs
showcase their case studies. in 2015-16, bhel annual quality circle summit (baqcs) was held at
hpep-hyderabad unit where 46 qcs participated from all over bhel and qc no. tc69m of hpep-
hyderabad was awarded the s r udupa trophy for “best quality circle”.
occupational health & safety
at bhel, we believe that human life is priceless, loss of which can neither be made up for by mone-
tary compensations nor can its dedication and expertise be substituted. this very premise forms the
core of occupational safety
programmes in bhel and inspires
us to make the workplace safer for
the employees of bhel as well as
for our business associates. bhel's
major manufacturing units are
ohsas 18001 certified, having
strong health, safety &
environment (hse) management
systems in place. this has resulted
in improvement of company's
safety performance. at project
sites, compared to the year 2014, in
the year 2015 there was approxi-
mately 27% reduction in inci-
dences of fatalities and nearly 29%
reduction in the man-days lost due
to various types of accidents.
dedicated safety and
occupational health centres are
being run in the factory premises catering to safety and occupational health issues of employees at
the workplace. some of the initiatives taken in our units to build and maintain safety and health
culture at work place during 2015-16 included:


                                               85

  sustainability report 2015-16




        sponsoring bhel officials for one year advanced diploma course in industrial safety,
        conducted by central / regional labour institute at mumbai, kanpur, kolkata,
        chennai and faridabad
        sharing of good practices through in-house magazines and handbooks on various
        safety related topics
        creating awareness about safety through display of posters, safety instructions,
        standard operating procedures and periodic awareness campaigns
        conducting health & safety related training sessions for regular employees, contract
        workers & trade apprentices
        creating awareness about hazardous chemicals through making available the
        material safety data sheet (msds) and standard operating procedure
        conducting special programme on health awareness for women employees
         creating awareness about road safety amongst the truck drivers associated with
        transportation of our products
        internal audits, external audits by certifying agency, 3rd party safety audit etc.




                                   safety statistics for bhel units
                     total         total          man hours            frequency      severity rate
     calendar
                  reportable      man days     worked (in million         rate
       year        accidents        lost            hours)
     2010             82            8433               146.338            0.560           57.627
     2011             97            33711              145.961            0.665          230.959
     2012             77            50582              148.42             0.519          340.803
     2013             88            9029               167.366            0.525           53.947
     2014             82            19848              160.624            0.511          123.568
     2015             59            1246               152.275            0.387              8.184




this data is given for the calendar years (1st jan to 31st december of respective years). a lot of efforts
are being made to further improve the safety culture in bhel which has resulted in better safety
performance during the reporting period. there is no specific area where workers with high
incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation have been identified/reported.


                                                  86

                                                                 sustainability report 2015-16




                frequency rate (fr) for last 5 years across bhel units
   0.7
                    0.665
  0.65

   0.6

  0.55                                                0.525           0.511
                                                                                       0.521
   0.5                                0.519

  0.45

   0.4
                                                                                       0.387
  0.35
                 2011              2012             2013            2014         2015

                               frequency rate (fr)               average fr


bhel has no specific agreement signed with the trade unions related to health and safety related
matter. however, there are various participative forums like “works committee”, “shop council”,
“central safety committee”, “hygiene committee”, “hospital apex committee” etc. in our units,
where health & safety related issues are discussed/deliberated.



                severity rate (sr) for last 5 years across bhel units


                               340.803


             230.959

                                                                                    151.492
                                                                      123.568

                                                    53.947
                                                                                    8.184
         2011               2012               2013               2014          2015

                                    severity rate             average sr



                                               87

  sustainability report 2015-16



annual hse heads meet took place at heep haridwar on 19th & 20th november 2015. a number of
good practices adopted by units and regions were shared during the meet.




                                                             safety pledge being administered


learning and development
learning and development are accorded utmost importance in bhel. the human resource
development institute (hrdi) along with advanced technical education centre (atec) at
hyderabad and human resources development centre (hrdcs) at different units play a key role in
training and development of employees. aligned to the changing needs of the organisation, these
learning centres facilitate knowledge transfer, skill development and behavioural interventions to
build winning attitude in bhel employees.




                inter unit hse heads meet held at heep haridwar on 19th & 20th november 2015

during the year, the company achieved 4.18 training man-days per employee. bhel also provided
skill development to various act-apprentices thus contributing actively to the 'skill india' campaign
of govt. of india. bhel as member of governing body of capital goods sector skill council and


                                                  88

                                                                 sustainability report 2015-16



power sector skill council was involved in creation of national occupational standards for these two
sectors. during the year, live classroom facilities were introduced at some of the locations to gain
virtual access to live classes being conducted at different locations to improve the reach and sharing
of knowledge.
the highlights of learning and development in bhel during 2015-16 include:



      revision of content, design and methodology for leadership development programmes
     introduction of new leadership program titled “resilient leadership” for middle
     management to face the volatility, uncertainty, complexity, ambiguity (vuca) world
     and covered 110 executives in 4 programs with exposure to outbound methodology
     conceptualisation of program to enhance belongingness for the organisation titled
     'winning together' for young executives and covering 2,928 executives in more than
     100 programs across the organisation with the help of 75 internal trainers specifically
     trained for this initiative.
     thrust on technical training on new advanced technology areas like ausc, igcc, carbon
     capture, solar energy, transmission business etc.
      successful launch of 'horizon & inspire' for cadre change promotions
      successful implementation of e-learning modules of:
      · harvard manage mentor leadership for 1000 executives and
      · in-house developed project management module covering 500 executives
      launch of online training need identification (tni) portal across the organisation



diversity and equal opportunity
bhel as an organisation recognises the contributions that individuals from diverse backgrounds
can bring in to its talent pool. this is reflected in our recruitment policy which provides for equal
opportunity to individuals irrespective of cast, creed or gender. our recruitment process has special
members in the interviewing committee to ensure diversity in the recruitment and selection of new
inductees. in the multi-pronged approach, we continue to focus on ensuring that diverse talent is
represented across all tiers of the organisation. special benefits such as additional leaves/choice of
postings/child care leave/special training are part of our hr policy structure to provide special
support to our women employees to meet their personal and career needs.
supplier assessment
for tenders of value ₹ 5 crore or more, signing of integrity pact with the vendor is a must in the
organisation. registration of new suppliers in bhel is based on organisational soundness, quality
system, technical competence, besides financial information. suppliers are made aware of
company's code of conduct through various platforms/communication channels. bhel is entitled to
disqualify the bidder(s)/ contractor(s) from the tender process or take action as per the separate
“guidelines for suspension of business dealings with suppliers/ contractors” framed by the
principal.


                                                89

  sustainability report 2015-16



management approach - human rights & anti-corruption
bhel policies are in line with the principles of human rights, the constitution of india, and various
applicable statues. bhel has special provisions for ensuring safeguard of women employees at the
workplace. the principles of natural justice are enshrined in “the bhel conduct, discipline and
appeal rules” applicable to all its employees except workmen category who are governed by the
standing orders.
bhel is a lifetime member of united nations global compact (ungc), india network. the company
reports its performance on 10 principles of ungc every year through communication on progress.
this is also uploaded on company web-site for public viewing and can be accessed at
http://www.bhel.com/healthsafety/global_compact.php.
bhel believes in the highest levels of personal and institutional integrity. the value statement of
the company calls for the highest ethical standards to be observed in decision making and
demonstration of the same in honest, decent and fair manner. the company has zero tolerance
approach towards all forms of corruption. bhel is committed to enhancing transparency in all its
business dealings for which it has a vigilance set-up in place to prevent irregularities. the main
objective of the company is to curb corruption by focusing more on the preventive and educative
aspects, rather than investigative/punitive processes. training programmes, seminars/conferences
and interaction between chief vigilance officer with the employees is a regular feature in the
company.
protecting human rights in supply chain
bhel procures materials and components on a regular basis from suppliers spread all over the
world. for this purpose, bhel is backed by a strong supplier base which is continually updated. new
suppliers and traders (only those who are sole/authorised representatives of oems) both from
within india and abroad, who give bhel competitive inputs, are being added to the list of existing
suppliers.
bhel has pioneered entrepreneurship development in and around its manufacturing units by
providing regular support to micro and small enterprises (mse) through knowledge sharing,
training and development and resource mobilisation etc. during 2015-16, bhel has procured about
17% of its total procurement from mse in compliance to public procurement policy-2012 for mses.
bhel units regularly organise vendor meets, specifically for mses (including local suppliers)
towards capacity and capability building, which also provides opportunities for open
communication for mutual benefits and support.
bhel, being a public sector undertaking (psu) has statutory obligation to enter into contract with
only those suppliers and contractors who comply with human rights requirement and the same is
incorporated in the contract agreement (rate contract agreement, standard condition of contract
etc.). the agreement comprehensively contains clauses related to child labour, un convention on
human rights, health & safety requirements, forced/ bonded labours, contract labours, minimum
wage payment, insurance, welfare etc.
training on un global compact principles forms an essential part of induction training in the
organisation which covers all the new inductees in the organisation.
no human right review has been done during the reporting period as there has not been any
incident of human right violation which has been brought to the notice of the organisation. further,
in bhel no such operations have been identified in which the right to exercise freedom of
association and collective bargaining, may be at significant risk, and thus no actions taken to
support these rights.



                                               90

                                                                 sustainability report 2015-16



human rights grievance mechanism
an act to provide protection against sexual harassment of women at workplace and for the
prevention and redressal of complaints of sexual harassment and for matters connected therewith
or incidental thereto called "the sexual harassment of women at workplace (prevention,
prohibition and redressal) act, 2013", has come into force from 9th december 2013 with notification
of rules by govt. of india, ministry of women and child development called "the sexual harassment
of women at workplace (prevention, prohibition and redressal) rules, 2013".
the provisions of the act and the rules thereon are being strictly complied with. in accordance with
the act, internal complaints committee has been constituted in all units of bhel and their
constitution and contact details have been hosted on unit's website. a poster has been designed,
which includes key provisions of the act, duties of the employer, complaints redressal mechanism,
action for malicious complaints & various misconceptions about sexual harassment and the same
was circulated to all units for display at conspicuous places. posters in hindi, english and regional
languages have been displayed in all units. 45 workshops/awareness programmes were conducted
in units on gender sensitization, self-defence and on awareness about the act. the annual report
showing details on the number of complaints of sexual harassment received during the year 2015-
2016 and status thereof is given in the figure below:


                  report on safeguard of women at workplace for 2015-16

     1       number of complaints received during the year 2015-16                         4
     2       number of complaints disposed of during the year 2015-16                      4
     3       number of cases pending for more than ninety days                             0
     4       number of workshops or awareness programme against sexual                     45
             harassment carried out
     5       nature of action taken by the employer on recommendations of icc
     the aggrieved woman was upset about the dual meaning comments from her             case
     colleagues on her married life and wanted transfer from that product group.        closed
     she was transferred and the case closed.
     on inquiry, icc concluded that this was not the case of harassment as per the      case
     act. on the request of aggrieved woman to drop the case, case was closed.          closed
     according to the aggrieved woman, respondent had unauthorised information
     about her personal mail ids and used to send derogatory remarks to her spouse case
     using fake e-mail ids. case investigated by icc, respondent submitted written closed
     apology and transferred from the unit.
     on inquiry, icc concluded that as per the act, the case was not of sexual case
     harassment but was of misconduct and recommended the case for
                                                                               closed
     departmental inquiry.


periodic surveillance & internal audits, statutory compliance reports, legal compliance reports are
some of the mechanism in place to ensure compliance with our human rights policy.


                                               91

    sustainability report 2015-16




                            performance on societal impact

management approach – contribution towards overall wellbeing of the society

for bhel, the major focus of corporate social responsibility (csr) is inclusive growth through
capacity building, empowerment of communities, environment protection, development of
backward regions and upliftment of the marginalised & under-privileged sections of the society.
the company has supported various social initiatives across the country by undertaking projects in
diversified areas. bhel undertakes csr initiatives for implementation mostly through various
ngos/trusts/social welfare societies engaged in social activities throughout the country.

bhel has supported various csr initiatives in diversified fields across the country and was awarded
“pandit madan mohan malviya bronze award” for the csr initiative - arivalayam at trichy, tamil
nadu. dr r.p. centre for ophthalmic sciences, aiims, new delhi honoured bhel for outstanding
contribution to the national eye bank. on 13th nov. 2015, 57 csr events were organised across all
units of bhel for celebrating the 51st anniversary of bhel's incorporation.

bhel's csr policy is the structural framework which guides the organisation while undertaking any
initiative related to csr from conceptualisation to execution and ultimately assessing the impact.
the policy clearly lays down bhel's csr vision, mission, objectives and defines the thrust areas in
which csr interventions are generally carried out.

csr vision

a responsible corporate citizen working towards a better tomorrow.

csr mission

to sincerely & effectively discharge company's responsibility in the identified csr thrust areas and
other areas listed out in the companies act, 2013.

objectives

the objectives of this policy are:

f    to define csr projects or programs which bhel plans to undertake and which falls within the
     purview of the companies act 2013, the companies (csr policy) rules, 2014 and the prevailing
     guidelines issued by department of public enterprises, govt. of india;

f    modalities of execution of such csr projects or programs;

f    monitoring process of such csr projects or programs;

f    to make the stakeholders aware of csr practices in bhel.




                                                92

                                                                  sustainability report 2015-16



f to work keeping in mind the larger objectives of sustainable development in conduct of business
  and in pursuit of csr agenda




           clean india                      green india                      educated india




         healthy india                     heritage india                    inclusive india




             responsible india

                                                                            focus areas for
                                                                            csr initiatives



major csr initiatives undertaken
bhel undertakes csr initiatives for implementation through various ngos/trusts/social welfare
societies engaged in social activities throughout the country. details of some of the major csr
initiatives carried out during 2015-16 is listed below.
healthy india
f in partnership with help age india, phdrdf and wockhardt foundation, bhel has provided
  support for running operations of 11 mobile medical units (mmus) in the vicinity of our project
  sites and manufacturing units, benefitting more than one lakh patients. some of these mmus
  were also deployed for the benefit of disaster affected people in j&k during floods, during hud-
  hud cyclone in andhra pradesh and in chennai, tamil nadu during floods.
f with financial support from bhel, ‘life line express train’ the world’s first hospital on wheels,
  was stationed for 21 days at lalitpur railway station, u.p., india. during this period of 3 weeks, it
  provided free medical services such as restoration of sight, hearing, correction of cleft lips,
  dental and gynaecological treatment etc. to around 7700 patients.

                                                93

sustainability report 2015-16




              in partnership with help age india. bhel provided mobile medical units
                                  in the vicinity of its projects sites




        inauguration of life line express train deployed by bhel at lalitpur railway station
                            uttar pradesh for providing free medical aid




                                              94

                                                                         sustainability report 2015-16



f   bhel continued its support to its own csr initiative - ‘heal a soul’ by providing anti-
    haemophilic factor (ahf) to 480 haemophilic patients including children. the initiative
    focuses mainly on patients coming from below-the-poverty-line (bpl) families located in the
    vicinity of our transmission business group (tbg) project sites.
f   10,650 people voluntarily pledged to donate their eyes under initiative “vision to all- bhel’s
    call”, taking the total number of pledges to over 92000.
f   provided financial support for construction of “ganga prem hospice” – a 30-bed cancer
    hospice (a home providing palliative care to terminally ill cancer patients) near rishikesh
    through an ngo named “shradha cancer care trust”
f   provided financial support for palliative care to terminally ill patients including cancer patients,
    in delhi/ncr region and bhopal, coming from poor background and with inadequate means
    of subsistence through an ngo named “global cancer concern india (gcci)”




                     bhel felicitated by haemophilia federation (india) for its outstanding
                                          contribution to the society.



clean india
v   more than 60 projects on “swachh bharat” viz. construction of toilet facilities at schools in
    nearby villages, construction of drain, purchase of solid waste collection & transportation
    vehicles etc. valuing more than ₹ 10.0 crore were undertaken across bhel.
v   bhel is providing financial support for “installation of 25 clusters of bio-digestor toilets in
    haridwar & rishikesh” with safe & clean drinking water facility at each location.


                                                    95

    sustainability report 2015-16



v    installed 11 community ro water plants at various locations near bhel’s presence.
v    bhel contributed ₹ 20.00 crore to ‘swachh bharat kosh’ under the ‘clean india initiatives’ of the
     govt. of india
v    bhel has signed an agreement with varanasi nagar nigam for providing financial support for
     automated solid waste collection and transportation systems in 14 wards of varanasi.




            inauguration of one bio-digester toilet cluster by our cmd and ardh-kumbh mela adhikari



v    supported csr initiative “forest-based sustainable livelihood project”, which aims to
     manufacture biodegradable leaf cups & plates at sundergarh district, odisha.
educated india
·    “running of mobile science labs in the vicinity of three units of bhel viz. haridwar, jhansi and
     trichy”.
·    providing support for running 30 schools located in bhel manufacturing units, benefitting
     more than 40,000 school children.
·    successfully conducted experiment for providing low-cost internet facility using tv white
     space especially in rural area. the experiment was conducted at kashi krishak inter college,
     harhua, varanasi in collaboration with ernet india.
·    initiated infrastructural development activities in 108 govt. schools in lucknow.
·    provided custom-built bus for benefit of differently-abled students at jnu campus
·    provided financial support for renovation and modernization of library at national college,
     trichy (tamil nadu).


                                                    96

                                                                        sustainability report 2015-16




            mobile science lab deployed by bhel for children as part of the educated india campaign


·   supported a project to
    promote education
    and skill development
    of disadvantaged
    children and youth by
    imparting non-formal
    education to 1260
    street/slum children
    including skill training
    to 240 youth (both
    boys and girls) living in
    ten slum clusters of
    delhi. appropriate
    teaching & learning
    materials, visual aids,
    puppets, stories,
    songs, educational desks & benches provided by bhel for one of the govt. schools in goindwal, punjab
    games, etc. have been
    prepared for creating joyful and child-centric learning environment for the children. bridge
    courses and cooperative learning are also included in the curriculum to support quick learning
    and also improve their functional literacy.

                                                    97

  sustainability report 2015-16



inclusive india
· undertook a project “technology-based advanced agricultural interventions” in tribal
  dominated khargone district of madhya pradesh for upliftment and economic empowerment of
  marginalised farmers.
· provided quality training to apprentices at different units of bhel to develop their skillsets and
  open employment opportunities for them.
· conducted different vocational training programs like beautician and tailoring courses for the
  benefit of needy and deprived.
responsible india
ø carried out infrastructure development activities such as construction/ renovation of
  community centres, construction of toilets, construction of classrooms in schools, installation
  of solar lights etc. in the nearby villages of haridwar, bhopal, trichy and project sites located in
  power sector eastern region.
ø supported “adoption of 15 villages for sustainable use of rainwater harvesting to enhance
  livelihood of poor small farmers” in bijawar block of chhatarpur district, (m.p), which is poverty-
  stricken and predominantly inhabited by tribal and obcs with drastically poor irrigation facilities.
ø construction of overhead tank of 5,00,000 litre capacity in thuvakudi municipality of trichy
  district, tamil nadu




                     inauguration of overhead water tank by cmd, bhel & director (hr) at
                                  thuvakudi municipality, trichy, tamil nadu

ø in association with the ngo ‘kalyanam karoti’, provided artificial limbs and medical aid
  instruments to 143 poor & needy people of agra
ø provided custom-built bus for benefit of differently-abled students at jnu campus


                                                   98

                                                                          sustainability report 2015-16



green india
ø installed 50 kwp grid interactive solar power plant in jnanakshi vidyaniketan, rajarajeshwari
  nagar, bengaluru.
ø initiated a signature project in partnership with iim ahmedabad for the installation of solar water
  pumps of 5 hp capacity to encourage the use of solar energy by farmers in the villages.




         50 kwp grid interactive solar power plant installed by bhel in jnanakshi vidyaniketan, bengaluru.

ø installation of solar street lights – 90 at deoli, bilaspur (h.p.), 47 at phulpur (u.p.) and 47 at bhadohi
  (u.p.)
ø provided financial support for setting up of a 60 kw multiple-grid interactive spv power plant in
  two rural akal academies – schools for children coming from poor & rural background (30 kw
  each in akal academy, dadehar sahib and akal academy, atteja singh wala of tarn taran district,
  punjab) through kalgidhar trust (a non-profit charitable organisation)
ø installing solar water heaters in guru granth sahib sri vidyakender, chattarpur, delhi for the
  benefit of orphaned children who are being imparted value education & vocational training
csr activities during disasters & calamities
· at the time of chennai floods, bhel extended its support for the relief of flood-ravaged people
  through various nearby units of bhel viz. bap ranipet, hpep hyderabad, hpvp vizag, pppu
  thirumayam, pssr chennai and hpbp trichy by deploying mobile medical vans, providing food,
  groceries & clean drinking water and distributing blankets, toiletries, basic medicines etc.
· during hud-hud disaster in andhra pradesh, on receiving sos requests from gvmc, apepdcl,
  post office, sbi a bhel-hpvp team was quickly pressed into service for their assistance. alternate
  office accommodation was arranged for post office. breakfast and lunch were arranged for the
  ndrf teams and police personnel, fire brigade personnel, who were deployed in surrounding
  areas.

                                                      99

  sustainability report 2015-16



· construction of 96 houses for hud-hud cyclone victims at vizag, a.p. the construction is being
  carried out by the state government with financial support from bhel.




                    construction of houses for victims affected by hud-hud cyclone in a.p.




                 vehicles containing relief materials flagged off by bhel for undertaking relief
                                       operations during chennai floods



                                                    100

                                         sustainability report 2015-16




relief activities by bhel during chennai floods




                   101

sustainability report 2015-16




                                      thrust area wise bhel
                                          csr footprint




                                102

                                                                 sustainability report 2015-16



compliance
no substantiated complaint regarding breach of customer privacy and loss of customer data has
been made against bhel for its activities. no fine/penalty for non-compliance with laws and
regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services have been levied.
there is no case filed by any stakeholder against the company regarding unfair trade practices,
irresponsible advertising and/or anti-competitive behaviour during the last five years and pending
as on end of financial year i.e., 31-03-2016. further, there were no significant fines and non-
monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations levied on the company during
2015-16.
product responsibility
over the past few years, bhel is deeply focused on innovation than ever before. the company is
transforming its r&d and innovation in a structured and focused manner through five-pronged
approach consisting of strategic direction, portfolio management, partnerships & alliances,
knowledge management and enablers. strategic direction is provided to r&d through a policy
framework under the guidance of r&d advisory council comprising of reputed indian scientists,
captains of industry and academia. the company's r&d focus is realigned with the national mission
objectives like cleaner and green environment, efficient power transmission, smart grids, smart
cities, indigenous production of defence and strategic equipments, high-speed rail and metro
transportation, e-mobility etc.
a portfolio of 15 missions leading to 146 technology initiatives is helping the company to build and
consolidate capabilities in emerging and existing areas. all these projects are being executed and
monitored for successful completion of the plan period ending in 2017.
major mission projects
·   establish capability for 800 mw advanced ultra supercritical power plants with parameters
    710 °c/310 ata covering design, engineering, manufacturing installation & commissioning;
·   in-house capability to establish grid connected solar power plant with matching bos;
·   to develop in-house capability for hvdc (± 800 kv) transmission products/substations;
·   to develop total capability for transmission products/substation of gis up to 765 kv;
·   to develop 3-phase propulsion systems for all railways needs covering electric/diesel- electric
    loco, emu, demu,memu, coaches, metro and rolling stock addressing urban transportation;
·   to develop & commercialise applications in the area of emerging technologies like high
    temperature superconducting (htsc) motor, fuel cell up to 2 kw rating, efficiency
    improvement of crystalline silicon solar cells from 16% to 25%, etc.;
·   water/sewage treatment plants for power plant, industrial/municipal and river clean-up
    applications.
innovation in engineering processes including managing its knowledge base is identified as focus
area in these centres of innovation & technology development. continuing its focus on knowledge
based engineering (kbe) for reducing design cycle time and design optimisation in all its products,



                                               103

  sustainability report 2015-16



bhel has initiated a number
of kbe projects aimed to
build expertise in kbe and
facilitate product lifecycle
management (plm) related
activities. further, with a
view to bridge knowledge
gaps, bhel has increased
collaboration with academia
and r&d institutes for basic
as well as applied research.
c u r r e n t l y, b h e l h a s
memorandum of under-
standing (mou) with over 15
leading academic and
research institutes. the
company is also putting in
place all enablers like people
capabilities, infrastructure,
processes and organisa-
tional support to succeed in
its ambitious technology
endeavours.
bhel has recorded signifi-
cant achievements on r&d
performance parameters
during the year. the r&d
expenditure of the company
for the current financial year
is ₹ 893.07 crore which is
3.36% of the turnover. this
includes the expenditure by
manufacturing units on
r&d efforts towards major modifications/ improvements in product/ designs against customer
requirements which are not covered in corporate r&d projects. the company filed 477 patent and
copyright applications during the year 2015-16, enhancing the company's intellectual capital to
3441. a total of ₹ 6675.68 crore of the company's total turnover has been achieved from its in-house
developed products, introduced in last five years.
there has not been any incident of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes
concerning product and service information and health & safety impacts of products and services.



                                               104

                                                               sustainability report 2015-16



marketing communication
bhel being a multi-national organisation has its office and operations spread across the globe. any
marketing communication is thoroughly reviewed for adherence to applicable laws and statues
before publication. while the company has a centralised department (corporate communications)
which is the primary agency for all advertising communication and thus responsible for compliance,
advice for bhel's overseas contacts, associates and at times, the embassy/ high commission of
india is also consulted before issuance of communication for overseas market.
power sector marketing department deals with sponsorship of events for sales promotion. it
follows company's set practice in this regard. no incidence of non-compliance with regulations and
voluntary codes concerning marketing communications has taken place pertaining to power sector
marketing.
customer orientation
for bhel, customer focus is essential part of business and company is persistently working towards
creating value for customer through products and services. it is an integral part of bhel's culture
which is also reflected in our vision, mission and values statement.
the company provides detailed product labels/ name plates/ test certificates to customers as per
their requirement and terms of the contracts with them, besides the mandatory requirements of the
applicable laws.
given the diverse and large scale operations of bhel, customer complaints get registered through
multiple modes. two dedicated online complaint system, i.e., customer complaint management
system (ccms) and site action request (sar)/ commissioning action report (car) system have
been introduced and are in operation. apart from complaints, customer feedback is taken regularly
through customer satisfaction surveys, customers' meets and face-to-face interactions.
there is no case filed by any stakeholder against the company regarding unfair trade practices,
irresponsible advertising and/or anti-competitive behaviour during the last five years and pending
as on end of financial year i.e. 31-03-2016.




                                              105

sustainability report 2015-16



          gri content index for 'in accordance' – comprehensive



   general standard disclosures
 indicator description                           page no. /    omissions    external
                                                 explanation               assurance
  strategy and analysis
  g4-1      statement from the most senior
            decision – maker of the organisa-
            tion about the relevance of             3-4
            sustainability to the organisation
            and the organisation's strategy
            for addressing sustainability
  g4-2      description of key impacts, risks,
            and opportunities                       6-7

  organisational profile
  g4-3      name of the organisation                 11
  g4-4      primary brands, products, and
                                                     15
            services
  g4-5      location of organisation's
                                                     20
            headquarters
  g4-6      number of countries where the
                                                     21
            organisation operates
  g4-7      nature of ownership and legal
                                                     23
            form
  g4-8      markets served                         11-12
  g4-9      scale of the organisation              11-12
  g4-10     details of workforce broken down
            by gender, employment contract,        83-84
            employment type etc.
  g4-11     percentage of total employees
            covered by collective bargaining         84
            agreements
  g4-12     description of the organisation's
                                                   89-90
            supply chain




                                        106

                                                                   sustainability report 2015-16




  general standard disclosures
indicator description                                     page no. /    omissions    external
                                                          explanation               assurance
organisational profile
g4-13      significant changes during the
           reporting period regarding the                   none
           organisation's size, structure,
           ownership, or its supply chain
g4-14      how the precautionary approach
           or principle is addressed by the                   24
           organisation
g4-15      externally developed economic,
           e n v i ro n m e n t a l a n d s o c i a l
           charters, principles, or other
           initiatives to which the organisa-
           tion subscribe or which it                        page
           endorses                                          86-87
                                                           of bhel's
g4-16      memberships of associations and
                                                            annual
           national/ international advocacy
                                                            report
           organisations in which the                      2015-16
           organisation holds a position on
           the governance body and
           participates in projects or com-
           mittees

identified material aspects and boundaries

g4-17      entities included in the
           organisation's consolidated
           f i n a n c i a l s t a te m e n t s w i t h       33
           indication of coverage in the
           report
g4-18      process for defining the report
           content and the         aspect                     38
           boundaries
g4-19      material aspects identified in the
           process for defining report                        38
           content




                                                107

sustainability report 2015-16




   general standard disclosures
 indicator description                          page no. /    omissions    external
                                                explanation               assurance
  identified material aspects and boundaries

  g4-20     description of aspect boundary
            within the organisation for each      38-39
            material aspect
  g4-21     description of aspect boundary
                                                  38-39
            outside the organisation for each
            material aspect
  g4-22     explanation of the effect of any
            re-statement of information           none
            provided in the earlier report.
  g4-23     significant changes from              none
            previous reporting periods in the
            scope and aspect boundaries
  stakeholder engagement
  g4-24     list of stakeholder groups
            engaged by the organisation
  g4-25     basis for identification and
            selection of stakeholders with
            whom to engage
  g4-26     organisation's approach to
            stakeholder engagement                33-39

  g4-27     key topics and concerns that have
            been raised through stakeholder
            engagement, and how the
            organisation has responded to
            those key topics and concerns
  report profile
  g4-28     reporting period                        9
  g4-29     date of most recent previous
            report                                  9




                                        108

                                                          sustainability report 2015-16




  general standard disclosures
indicator description                           page no. /    omissions    external
                                                explanation               assurance
report profile

g4-30      reporting cycle                          9

g4-31      contact point for questions
           regarding the report or its              10
           contents
g4-32      gri content index                     106-123

g4-33      organisation's policy and current
           practice with regard to seeking
           external assurance for the report;
           relationship with the assurance
                                                    10
           providers; the highest gover-
           nance body's involvement in
           seeking assurance for the organi-
           sation's sustainability report
governance
g4-34      governance structure of the
           organisation; committees
                                                    24
           responsible for decision-making
           on economic, environmental and
           social impacts
g4-35      process for delegating authority
           for economic, environmental and
           social topics from the highest         24-25
           governance body to senior
           executives and other employees
g4-36      executive - level positions with
           responsibility for economic,           24-25
           environmental and social topics
g4-37      processes for consultation
           between stakeholders and the
                                                  24-26
           highest governance body on
           economic, environmental and
           social topics




                                       109

sustainability report 2015-16




   general standard disclosures
 indicator description                                   page no. /    omissions    external
                                                         explanation               assurance
  governance

  g4-38     composition of the highest
            governance body and its                          26
            committees
  g4-39     function of the chair of the
            highest governance body within
            the organisation's management                  24-26
            and the reasons for his
            arrangement as an executive
            officer
  g4-40     nomination and selection
            processes for the highest
                                                          page 97
            governance body and its                       of bhel's
            committees; the criteria used for              annual
            nominating and selecting                       report
            h i g h e s t g o ve r n a n c e b o d y      2015-16
            members
  g4-41     processes for the highest
            governance body to ensure
            conflicts of interest are avoided                26
            and managed; disclosure of
            conflicts of interest to
            stakeholders
  g4-42     highest governance body's and
            senior executives roles in
            development, approval, and
            updating of the organisation's
            purpose, value or mission                      28-29
            statements, strategies, policies,
            and goals related to economic,
            e n v i ro n m e n t a l a n d s o c i a l
            impacts




                                               110

                                                          sustainability report 2015-16




  general standard disclosures
indicator description                           page no. /    omissions    external
                                                explanation               assurance
governance
g4-43      measures taken to develop and
           enhance the highest governance
                                                  28-29
           body's collective knowledge of
           economic, environmental and
           social topics
g4-44      processes for evaluation of the
           highest governance body's             page 101
           performance with respect to           of bhel's
           governance of economic envi-           annual
           ronmental and social topics;           report
           actions taken in response to          2015-16
           evaluation results
g4-45      highest governance body's role
           in the identification and manage-
           ment of economic, environmen-
           tal and social impacts, risks, and
           opportunities; use of stakeholder
           consultation for supporting the
           process
g4-46      highest governance body's role
           in reviewing the effectiveness of
           the organisation's risk manage-      page 28-29
           ment processes for economic,          of bhel's
           environmental and social topics        annual
                                                  report
g4-47      frequency of the highest gover-
                                                 2015-16
           nance body's review of eco-
           nomic, environmental and social
           impacts, risks, and opportunities
g4-48      highest committee or position
           that formally reviews and
           approves the organisation's
           sustainability report and ensures
           that all material aspects are
           covered




                                       111

sustainability report 2015-16




   general standard disclosures
 indicator description                          page no. /    omissions    external
                                                explanation               assurance
  governance
  g4-49     process for communicating
            critical concerns to the highest
            governance body                        page
                                                 111-120
  g4-50     nature and total number of           of bhel's
            critical concerns that were           annual
            communicated to the highest
                                                  report
            governance body and the
                                                 2015-16
            mechanism(s) used to address
            and resolve them
  g4-51     remuneration policies for the
            highest governance body and
            senior executives; how perfor-
            mance criteria in the remunera-
            tion policy relate to the highest
            governance body's and senior
            executives' economic, environ-
            mental and social objectives
  g4-52     process for determining remu-
            neration
  g4-53     how stakeholders' views are           page29
            sought and taken into account        of bhel's
            regarding remuneration                annual
  g4-54     ratio of the annual total compen-     report
            sation for the organisation's        2015-16
            highest- paid individual to the
            median annual total compensa-
            tion for all employees (excluding
            the highest – paid individual)
  g4-55     ratio of percentage increase in
            annual total compensation for
            the organisation's highest – paid
            individual to the median percent-
            age increase in annual total
            compensation for all employees
            (excluding the highest – paid
            individual)




                                        112

                                                             sustainability report 2015-16




  general standard disclosures
indicator description                            page no. /          omissions    external
                                                 explanation                     assurance
ethics and integrity

g4-56      organisation's values, principles,
           standards and norms of behavior           28-29
           such as codes of conduct and
           codes of ethics
g4-57      internal and external mechanisms
           for seeking advice on ethical and
           lawful behavior, and matters
           related to organisational integ-
           rity
                                                     29-31
g4-58      internal and external mechanisms
           for reporting concerns about
           unethical or unlawful behavior,
           and matters related to organisa-
           tional integrity




  specific standard disclosures - material aspects
indicator description                            page no. /          omissions    external
                                                 explanation                     assurance
category: economic
economic performance
g4-ec1     direct economic value generated
           and distributed                             42

g4-ec2     financial implications and other
           risks and opportunities for the           40-41
           organisation's activities due to
           climate change
                                                page 178 of bhel's
g4-ec3     coverage of the organisation's
                                                  annual report
           defined benefit plan obligations          2015-16

g4-ec4     financial assistance received
                                                       45
           from government




                                       113

sustainability report 2015-16




   specific standard disclosures - material aspects
 indicator description                           page no. /    omissions    external
                                                 explanation               assurance
  market presence
  g4-ec5    ratios of standard entry level
            wage by gender compared to
            local minimum wage at signifi-
            cant locations of operation
                                                     45
  g4-ec6    proportion of senior manage-
            ment hired from the local com-
            munity at significant locations of
            operation
  indirect economic impacts
  g4-ec7    development and impact of
            infrastructure investments and
            services supported
                                                   45-46
  g4-ec8    significant indirect economic
            impacts, including the extent of
            impacts
  procurement practices
  g4-ec9    proportion of spending on local
            suppliers at significant locations     45-46
            of operation
  category: environmental
  materials
  g4-en1    materials used by weight or
            volume
                                                   48-51
  g4-en2    percentage of materials used that
            are recycled input materials
  energy
  g4-en3    energy consumption within the
            organisation                           51-54

  g4-en4    energy consumption outside of                        not
            the organisation                                   reported
  g4-en5    energy intensity                       54-55
  g4-en6    reduction of energy consump-
            tion
                                                   56-61
  g4-en7    reductions in energy require-
            ments of products and services




                                        114

                                                          sustainability report 2015-16




  specific standard disclosures - material aspects
indicator description                           page no. /     omissions      external
                                                explanation                  assurance
water
g4-en8     total water withdrawal by source       64-66

g4-en9     water sources significantly
           affected by withdrawal of water          64

g4-en10    percentage and total volume of
                                                    66
           water recycled and reused
biodiversity
g4–dma     aspect specific dma                      64
g4-en11    operational sites owned, leased,                   none of
           managed in, or adjacent to,                        bhel's
           protected areas and areas of high                  operational
           biodiversity value outside                         sites are
           protected areas                                    owned,
                                                              leased,
g4-en12    description of significant impacts                 managed in,
           of activities, products, and                       or are
           services on biodiversity in                        adjacent to,
                                                              protected
           protected areas and areas of high                  areas and
           biodiversity value outside                         areas of
           protected areas                                    high
                                                              biodiversity
g4-en13    habitats protected or restored                     value
g4-en14    total number of iucn red list                      therefore,
                                                              these
           species and national conserva-
                                                              standard
           tion list species with habitats in                 disclosures
           areas affected by operations, by                   are not
           level of extinction risk                           applicable.
emissions
g4-en15    direct greenhouse gas (ghg)
           emissions (scope 1)
g4-en16    energy indirect greenhouse gas
           (ghg) emissions (scope 2)              70-74

g4-en17    other indirect greenhouse gas
           (ghg) emissions (scope 3)




                                        115

sustainability report 2015-16




   specific standard disclosures - material aspects
 indicator description                             page no. /     omissions               external
                                                   explanation                           assurance
  emissions
  g4-en18   greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions
                                                       72
            intensity
  g4-en19   reduction of greenhouse gas
            (ghg) emissions                          74-76
  g4-en20   emissions of ozone-depleting
            substances (ods)                         69-70

  g4-en21   nox, sox, and other significant air
                                                     69-70
            emissions
  effluents and waste
  g4-en22   total water discharge by quality
                                                     66-68
            and destination
  g4-en23   total weight of waste by type and
                                                     76-78
            disposal method
  g4-en24   total number and volume of                 81
            significant spills
  g4-en25   weight of transported, imported,                     this standard
                                                                 disclosure is not
            exported, or treated waste                           applicable as there
            deemed hazardous under the                           was no transport,
                                                                 import, export or
            terms of the basel convention,                       treatment of waste
            annex i, ii, iii, and viii, and per-                 deeme hazardous
                                                                 under the terms of
            centage of transported waste                         basel convention
            shipped internationally                              annex i, ii, iii & iv

  g4-en26   identity, size, protected status,
            and biodiversity value of water
            bodies and related habitats                               not
            significantly affected by the                          applicable
            organisation's discharges of
            water and runoff
  products & services
  g4-en27   extent of impact mitigation of
            environmental impacts of
            products and services
                                                     79-80
  g4-en28   percentage of products sold and
            their packaging materials that are
            reclaimed by category




                                          116

                                                          sustainability report 2015-16




  specific standard disclosures - material aspects
indicator description                           page no. /    omissions    external
                                                explanation               assurance
compliance
g4-en29    monetary value of significant
           fines and total number of non-
           monetary sanctions for non-              81
           compliance with environmental
           laws and regulations.
transport
g4-en30    significant environmental
           impacts of transporting products
           and other goods and materials
           for the organisation’s operations,                   not
           and transporting members of                        reported
           the workforce
overall
g4-en31    total environmental protection
           expenditures and investments by        81-82
           type
supplier environmental assessment

g4-en32    percentage of new suppliers that
                                                                not
           were screened using environ-
                                                              reported
           mental criteria
g4-en33    significant actual and potential
           negative environmental impacts           81
           in the supply chain and actions
           taken

environmental grievance mechanism

g4-en34    number of grievances about
           environmental impacts filed,
                                                    81
           addressed, and resolved through
           formal grievance mechanisms




                                       117

sustainability report 2015-16




   specific standard disclosures - material aspects
 indicator description                            page no. /    omissions    external
                                                  explanation               assurance
  category : social
  labor practices and decent work
  employment
  g4-la1    total number and rates of new
            employee hires and employee
                                                      83
            turnover by age group, gender
             and region
  g4-la2    benefits provided to full-time
            employees that are not provided
            to temporary or part-time
            employees, by significant loca-
                                                    82-83
            tions of operation
  g4-la3    return to work and retention
            rates after parental leave, by
            gender
  labor/management relations
  g4-la4    minimum notice periods regard-
            ing operational changes, includ-        82-83
            ing whether these are specified
            in collective agreements
  occupational health and safety
  g4-la5    percentage of total workforce
            represented in formal joint
            management–worker health and
            safety committees that help               85
            monitor and advise on occupa-
            tional health and safety pro-
            grams
  g4-la6    type of injury and rates of injury,
            occupational diseases, lost days,
                                                    86-87
            and absenteeism, and total
            number of work-related fatalities,
            by region and by gender
  g4-la7    workers with high incidence or
            high risk of diseases related to        85-88
            their occupation




                                         118

                                                          sustainability report 2015-16




  specific standard disclosures - material aspects
indicator description                           page no. /    omissions     external
                                                explanation                assurance
occupational health and safety
g4-la8     health and safety topics covered
           in formal agreements with trade        85-88
           unions
training and education
g4-la9     average hours of training per
           year per employee by gender,
                                                    88
           and by employee category
g4-la10    programs for skills management
           and lifelong learning that support
           the continued employability of
           employees and assist them in           88-89
           managing career endings
g4-la11    percentage of employees receiv-
           ing regular performance and
           career development reviews, by
                                                  88-89
           gender and by employee cate-
           gory
diversity and equal opportunity
g4-la12    composition of governance
           bodies and breakdown of
           employees per employee cate-             89
           gory according to gender, age
           group, minority group member-
           ship, and other indicators of
           diversity
equal remuneration for women and men

g4-la13    ratio of basic salary and remu-
           neration of women to men by                           not
           employee category, by significant                  applicable
           locations of operation
supplier assessment for labor practices
g4-la14    percentage of new suppliers that
                                                    89
           were screened using labor prac-
           tices criteria




                                       119

sustainability report 2015-16




   specific standard disclosures - material aspects
 indicator description                                page no. /    omissions    external
                                                      explanation               assurance
  supplier assessment for labor practices
  g4-la15   significant actual and potential
            negative impacts for labor                    89
            practices in the supply chain and
            actions taken
  labor practices grievance mechanisms
  g4-la16   number of grievances about
             labor practices filed, addressed,
                                                          89
            and resolved through formal
            grievance mechanisms
  human rights
  labor practices grievance mechanisms

  g4-hr1    total number and percentage of
            significant investment agree-
            ments and contracts that include
            human rights clauses or that
            under went human rights
            screening
  g4-hr2    total hours of employee training
             on human rights policies or pro-
            cedures concerning aspects of
            human rights that are relevant              88-89
            to operations, including the
            p e rc e n t a g e of e m p l o y e e s
            trained
  g4-hr3    total number of incidents of
            discrimination and corrective
            actions taken
  freedom of association and collective bargaining
  g4-hr4    operations and suppliers identi-
            fied in which the right to exercise
            freedom of association and                  90-91
            collective bargaining may be
            violated or at significant risk,
            and measures taken to support
            these rights




                                             120

                                                           sustainability report 2015-16




  specific standard disclosures - material aspects
indicator description                            page no. /    omissions     external
                                                 explanation                assurance
child labour
g4-hr5     operations and suppliers identi-
           fied as having significant
           risk for incidents of child labor,
                                                   90-91
           and measures taken to contrib-
           ute to the effective abolition of
           child labor
forced or compulsory labour
g4-hr6     operations and suppliers identi-
           fied as having significant risk for
           incidents of forced or compul-
           sory labor, and measures to             90-91
           contribute to the elimination of
           all forms of forced or compulsory
           labor
security
g4-hr7     percentage of security personnel
           trained in the organisation’s           90-91
           human rights policies or proce-
           dures that are relevant to opera-
           tions
indigineous rights
g4-hr8     total number of incidents of
           violations involving rights of                         not
           indigenous peoples and actions                      applicable
           taken
assessment
g4-hr9     total number and percentage
           of operations that have been            90-91
           subject to human rights reviews
           or impact assessments
supplier human rights assessment
g4-hr10    percentage of new suppliers that
           were screened using human               90-91
           rights criteria




                                        121

sustainability report 2015-16




   specific standard disclosures - material aspects
 indicator description                           page no. /    omissions     external
                                                 explanation                assurance
  supplier human rights assessment
  g4-hr11   significant actual and potential
            negative human rights impacts          90-91
            in the supply chain and actions
            taken
  human rights grievance mechanisms

  g4-hr12   number of grievances about             90-91
            human rights impacts filed,
            addressed, and resolved through
            formal grievance mechanisms
  society
  local communities
  g4-so1    percentage of operations with
            implemented local community
            engagement, impact assess-
            ments, and development pro-
                                                   90-91
            grams
  g4-so2    operations with significant actual
            and potential negative impacts
            on local communities
  anti corruptions
  g4-so3    total number and percentage of
            operations assessed for risks
            related to corruption and the
            significant risks identified
                                                 page27-28
  g4-so4    communication and training on         of bhel's
            anti-corruption policies and pro-      annual
            cedures                                report
  g4-so5    confirmed incidents of corrup-
            tion and actions taken
  public policy
  g4-so6    total value of political contribu-
                                                                  not
            tions by country and recipient/
                                                               applicable
            beneficiary




                                        122

                                                                 sustainability report 2015-16




  specific standard disclosures - material aspects
indicator description                                   page no. /    omissions    external
                                                        explanation               assurance
anti competitive behaviour
g4-so7     total number of legal actions for
           anti-competitive behavior, anti-                103
           trust, and monopoly practices
           and their outcomes
compliance
g4-so8     monetary value of significant
           fines and total number of non-
           monetary sanctions for non-                     103
           compliance with laws and
           regulations
supplier assessment for impacts on society
g4-so9     percentage of new suppliers that
           were screened using criteria for                             not
           impacts on society                                         reported
g4-so10    significant actual and potential
           negative impacts on society in                               not
           the supply chain and actions                               reported
           taken
grievance mechanisms for impacts on society
g4-so11    number of grievances about
           i m pa c t s o n s o c i e t y f i l e d ,      103
           addressed, and resolved through
           formal grievance mechanisms
product responsibility
customer health & safety
g4-pr1     percentage of significant product
           and service categories for which
           health and safety impacts are
           assessed for improvement
g4-pr2     total number of incidents of non-
           compliance with regulations and               103-104
           voluntary codes concerning the
           health and safety impacts of
           products and services during
           their life cycle, by type of out-
           comes




                                              123

sustainability report 2015-16




   specific standard disclosures - material aspects
 indicator description                          page no. /    omissions     external
                                                explanation                assurance
  product & service labeling
  g4-pr3    type of product and service
            information required by the
            organisation's procedures for
            product and service information
            and labeling, and percentage of
            significant product and service
            categories subject to such
            information requirements               105
  g4-pr4    total number of incidents of non-
            compliance with regulations and
            voluntary codes concerning
            product and service information
            and labeling, by type of out-
            comes
  g4-pr5    results of surveys measuring
            customer satisfaction
  marketing communications
  g4-pr6    sale of banned or disputed                           not
            products                                          applicable
  g4-pr7    total number of incidents of non-
            compliance with regulations and
            voluntary codes concerning
                                                   105
            marketing communications,
            including advertising, promo-
            tion, and sponsorship, by type of
            outcomes
  customer privacy
  g4-pr8    total number of substantiated
            complaints regarding breaches
                                                   105
            of customer privacy and losses
            of customer data
  compliance
  g4-pr9    monetary value of significant
            fines for non-compliance with
            laws and regulations concerning        105
            the provision and use of
            products and services




                                        124

    i   i

i           i
