
bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                       2




table of contents
2016 at a glance                                                                         4
key information                                                                          4


message from the chairman                                                                8

report of the supervisory board                                                         10
composition of the supervisory board                                                    10
report of the supervisory board                                                         11


report of the board of directors                                                        14
composition of the board of directors                                                   14
company profile                                                                         15
strategic principles                                                                    16
market highlights                                                                       17
portfolio results                                                                       18
financial performance bouwinvest in 2016                                                23
outlook                                                                                 24


corporate social responsibility                                                         25
introduction                                                                            25
progress made in 2016                                                                   26


human resources management                                                              28

corporate governance                                                                    29
board of directors                                                                      29
supervisory board                                                                       29
shareholders' meeting                                                                   29
funds managed by bouwinvest                                                             30
internal audit                                                                          30
external auditor                                                                        30
dutch management and supervision act                                                    30


operational control                                                                     31
introduction                                                                            31
risk management process and internal framework                                          31
risk management                                                                         32
compliance                                                                              34
in control statement                                                                    35


financial statements                                                                    36
balance sheet as at 31 december                                                         36
profit and loss account                                                                 37
statement of cash flows                                                                 38
notes to the financial statement                                                        39
notes to the balance sheet                                                              41
notes to the profit and loss account                                                    44


other information                                                                       47
stipulations in the articles of association pertaining to the appropriation of profit   47
independent auditor's report                                                            48

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                                         3



csr targets                                                                                                    51

csr performance indicators                                                                                     52

contact information                                                                                            55




this pdf annual report 2016 is a translation of the audited dutch annual report for the financial year 2016 of bouwinvest real estate investment
management b.v. the dutch annual report 2016 is the legally binding annual report. in the event that differences occur between this translation
and the audited dutch annual report, the audited dutch annual report prevails.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016   4




2016 at a glance
key information




funding




bouwinvest employees

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                  5



assets under management




distribution assets under management total portfolio




distribution assets under management dutch funds and mandate international real estate
x € thousands, unless otherwise stated


                                                                                         2015       2016
residential fund                                                                   3,151,198    3,995,034
retail fund                                                                         738,335      824,201
office fund                                                                         554,723      525,988
hotel fund                                                                          147,923      189,232
healthcare fund                                                                      34,066       53,733
separate mandate international real estate                                         2,617,936    2,629,023
other                                                                               251,144      239,658
                                                                                   7,495,325    8,456,869


return on assets under management
(excluding forex)

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                                          6



transactions > € 30 million                                                            transactions
                                                                                       x € million


                                                                                        transactions                           2015     2016
                                                                                        international
                                                                                        europe (excl. the netherlands)          124      121
                                                                                        north america                            70         -
                                                                                        asia-pacific                             66      158
                                                                                                                                260      279


                                                                                        the netherlands
                                                                                        residential fund                        466      249
                                                                                        retail fund                               -       41
                                                                                        office fund                               -      131
                                                                                        hotel fund                               24       65
                                                                                        healthcare fund                          32       47
                                                                                                                                522      533


                                                                                        total                                   782      812


key information over five years
all amounts in € thousands unless otherwise stated


                                                                             2012        2013            2014        2015               2016


number of shares (actual)                                                 225,000     225,000          225,000    225,000             225,000


net result                                                                  3,034       4,903            3,173       4,422              2,595
per share                                                                   13.48       21.79             14.1       19.65              11.53


assets under management                                                  5,826,789   6,060,282       6,700,206   7,495,325        8,456,869


total assets                                                               23,336      28,517           30,770     33,010              36,889


shareholders’ equity                                                       19,110      24,013           27,186     29,422              29,317
per share                                                                   84.93      106.72           120.83     130.76              130.30


solvency ratio                                                               82%         83%              88%            89%             79%


management fee income                                                      27,115      27,324           27,854     30,503              30,722


personnel costs                                                            17,278      16,815           17,014     17,959              19,276
number of ftes (year-end)                                                   129.4       122.6            128.0       131.1              136.6
personnel costs per fte                                                     133.5       137.2            132.9       137.0              141.1
fee per fte                                                                 209.5       222.9            217.6       232.7              224.9

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016   7



corporate social responsibility

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                     8




message from the chairman
﻿
dear stakeholders,


last year we performed better than expected. we recorded a double digit return on bouwinvest's assets under
management of 12.1%, improving the total return of 10.6% we recorded in 2015. this time it was the dutch portfolio
that delivered a strong performance, especially the residential portfolio. in 2015 our returns were lifted by
excellent results from our international investments arm. we are satisfied with the returns we booked in 2016,
both in absolute and relative terms.


and i believe we were able to do this in a market that is fraught with risks and challenges precisely because we
have continued to maintain our investment discipline and stick to our guns. we have always believed that we need
to invest in high-quality real estate, in the right locations and geared to the current and future needs of tenants, all
backed with thorough market research and real estate market expertise. that discipline and expertise, plus our
continued belief in specific sectors in the dutch and global real estate markets, even during the financial crisis, is
now paying dividends.


last year we also managed to invest over € 800 million, more than the € 782 million we invested in 2015, in what
was an even more fiercely competitive market. this gives us a secure pipeline of over € 1.3 billion, putting us in a
solid position for the future, especially as we have made no concessions whatsoever in terms of the quality of our
portfolio assets.


an example of this is our acquisition of the hourglass building in amsterdam’s zuidas business district, which
combines offices and a hotel. it fits into our strategy of acquiring multifunctional buildings and will be an
excellent addition to both the office fund and the hotel fund. and that ability to divide this asset across our funds
puts us in a very competitive position, as most investors want to acquire an office or a hotel, but seldom both
together. but what i find most pleasing is that this was a real joint effort, involving a lot of hard work from people
right across the organisation. the hourglass acquisition is also a testament to our confidence in the dutch office
market, especially in multi-functional and multi-tenant assets. we are seeing clear signs of recovery at prime
locations. the fact that we added a third client to the office fund shows that others share our faith in this market.


we welcomed six new clients in our funds last year, taking the total to 17 clients - including bpfbouw - on 1
january 2017. these new clients reflect the growing interest in real estate as a whole and the confidence in our
core investment approach. the new clients will have to wait a while to see their funds invested, as we are investing
largely in new-build assets. but like us they have long-term investment scope and like us they want to invest in
quality assets that will stand the test of time.


our investment strategy also reflects a number of megatrends that we believe will dominate the market in the
years to come. these include world population growth and the urbanisation trend, which will see a
further concentration of people living in cities; the ever-increasing growth of one-person and two-person
households, plus the demand for student housing, the ageing of the population and technology will all have a
profound impact on the demand for real estate.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                  9



anticipating and responding to these megatrends will be a key factor in our future success. we are looking to
increase our assets under management to over € 11 billion in the next three years (including value development),
from the current € 8.5 billion. a large part of that will be in international markets. the demands on our
management organisation are increasing, but our assets under management give us the critical mass we need to
meet all the demands of the market and of our clients.


we are a relatively small organisation, with 146 people (136.6 ftes) working from our head office in amsterdam, but
we are self-sufficient. we have our own investor relations team and risk management, compliance, tax, and legal
functions. as the hourglass acquisition proved, we are a very effective and responsive organisation. our clients see
that we are dedicated to the real estate sector, that we have good portfolios, take a responsible approach to
investing, with a modern and hands-on organisation. and this was borne out last year, when ipe real estate voted
us the best investment manager in the benelux and we were nominated in the best global investor category.


at the end of 2015, we set ourselves ambitious targets related to collaboration, innovation and client-orientation
and we made progress on all those fronts last year. client satisfaction has improved by 0.2 points since 2014, and
we scored an overall 7.9 last year. we also set up a training programme in so-called soft-skills for our employees.
and we set up an innovation lab to give people a chance to explore and test innovative ideas together. this also
creates awareness of challenges and opportunities on the innovation front in the market, because people are
looking at what is happening in the world outside and take this in account. to top all of this, bouwinvest was
ranked third in the best employer category for dutch financial companies with up to 1,000 employees last year,
something else we are proud of.


last year, we also saw the installation of our first fully elected works council. i was impressed to see that no less
than 90% of our staff voted in this election, which i believe is a clear sign that we have a committed and engaged
workforce. i was also pleased to note that we now have more young people on the works council, which now has
an average age of 40, compared with an average age of 56 before the election. all in all, i think this bodes well for
the future and i am looking forward to our close cooperation with the works council in the years ahead.


this year we will continue with our corporate social responsibility (csr) strategy, with its focus on long-term
investments, plus stable and sustainable returns. we will continue to invest in promising and high-quality real
estate to create and maintain a portfolio that is sustainable and future-proof and meets tenants’ and clients’
needs today and in the future, with a risk-return profile that enables us to meet very strict requirements.
bouwinvest wants to stay in the leading group on the csr front. for that reason, i was also pleased that wtc the
hague was awarded the breeam-nl in-use excellent certificate, and the fact that our three dutch sector funds
retained their gresb green star ratings.


the real estate market is hot right now, and that brings its own challenges. the market is becoming more and more
competitive but we are optimistic about our portfolios and the dutch and international real estate markets. we
believe we will continue increasing our assets under management and record long-term annual returns of 5-7% in
the years to come. with regard to the management company we expect to maintain the good level of result of 2016
(€ 2.6 million)


all that is left is for me to express my gratitude to our clients for their continued trust and to our supervisory
board for their efforts on our behalf. and last but certainly not least, i would like to thank all our employees for
their commitment, dedication and collaboration over the past year.


dick van hal, chairman of the board of directors and statutory director

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                    10




report of the supervisory board
composition of the supervisory board
the bouwinvest real estate investment management (‘bouwinvest’) supervisory board has the following four
members: c.j. beuving (chairman), j.h.w.r. van der vlist, r.th. wijmenga and c.g. gehrels.


all members of the supervisory board are independent in accordance with the criteria laid down in the supervisory
board charter.


                            c.j. (kees) beuving
                            (1951, dutch nationality)


                            chairman


                            mr. beuving joined the supervisory board of bouwinvest in august 2014 and was
                            appointed chairman in december 2014. mr. beuving has a long history in the banking
                            industry. until 2012, he was chairman of the board of directors at friesland bank and,
                            before that, held a number of functions within the board of directors of fortis bank,
                            including chairman from 2002 to 2006. in the period 2006 to 2010, mr. beuving held
                            various executive positions and supervisory directorships, including the fortis
                            nederland pension fund and currence b.v. he currently a member of the supervisory
                            board of bank nederlandse gemeenten (bng) and chairman of the board of stichting
                            vsb vermogensfonds, chairman of the supervisory board of charity voximpuls and
                            dutch microfinance organisation qredits and a member of the supervisory board of
                            delta lloyd bank n.v. mr. beuving studied business economics at erasmus university
                            rotterdam.


                            mr. beuving was first appointed to the supervisory board in 2014. his current term ends
                            in 2018.


                            j.h.w.r. (jan) van der vlist
                            (1954, dutch nationality)


                            member


                            mr. van der vlist is currently principal of klockensteijn b.v., a dutch real estate
                            consultancy firm. until 2011, he was head of investment management and managing
                            director at nibc bank n.v. prior to joining nibc, mr. van der vlist held a number of senior
                            positions at pension fund pggm, most latterly as director structured investments (real
                            estate and private equity). mr. van der vlist currently holds several (supervisory)
                            positions, including member of the board of directors of european real estate
                            investment trust ltd, chairman of the supervisory board of holland property group bv,
                            chairman of the board of nibc infrastructure partners i b.v., senior board advisor at
                            nibc bank n.v., director at barrage vastgoed b.v. and non-executive director of the
                            board of aventicum real estate partners europe gp ltd.


                            mr. van der vlist was first appointed to the supervisory board in 2013. his current term
                            ends in 2017.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                11



                            r. th. (roel) wijmenga
                            (1957, dutch nationality)


                            member


                            mr. wijmenga has a background in the insurance industry and held a number of
                            financial executive functions at leading dutch financial companies, including amev,
                            interpolis and eureko/achmea. his most recent role was as cfo at insurer asr
                            verzekeringen. he studied econometrics at erasmus university rotterdam. he holds
                            several (supervisory) positions, including chairman of the philips pensioenfonds and
                            member of the supervisory board of achmea.


                            mr. wijmenga was first appointed to the supervisory board in 2014. his current term
                            ends in 2018.


                            c.g. (carolien) gehrels
                            (1967, dutch nationality)


                            member


                            ms. gehrels is currently european cities director at arcadis. she served as an
                            alderperson on amsterdam city council from 2006 until the mid-2014 municipal
                            elections. during that time, her portfolio included economic affairs, art & culture,
                            water management, monuments, local media and public companies. from the end of
                            2012 until mid-2014, she also served as the capital city's deputy mayor. ms. gehrels is
                            also a member of the supervisory board of technical university (tu) delft and member
                            of the supervisory board of worldwaternet and a member of the board of forum for
                            city renewal and urban development.


                            ms. gehrels was first appointed to the supervisory board in 2015. her current term ends
                            in 2019.



report of the supervisory board
financial statements and profit appropriation
the board of directors prepared the bouwinvest financial statements and discussed these with the supervisory
board. deloitte accountants b.v. have audited the financial statements and provided them with an unqualified
independent auditors’ report.


the financial statements will be submitted for adoption as part of the 2016 annual report at the 2017 annual
general meeting of shareholders (agm). the supervisory board proposes that the agm adopts the financial
statements and discharges the board of directors for its management of the company and its funds and
discharges the supervisory board for its supervision of same.


key developments
in the global real estate market, investments continued the upward line seen in the past years, with another
marked increase in real estate investment activity in the netherlands, driven by increased interest from both
domestic and international investors. bouwinvest’s in-depth knowledge of the dutch and international real estate
markets, thanks its in-house regional experts, its own research department and its cooperation with local
partners, meant that the company was able to take full advantage of the real estate markets in 2016. steady
economic growth and the concomitant increases in employment and consumer and business confidence are all
increasing interest in high-quality real estate in various sectors. on top of this, a number of megatrends, such as
urbanisation, new technologies and the ageing of the global population, are driving demand for certain types of
real estate right across the globe.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                12



bouwinvest used its knowledge of these developments and trends to invest over € 800 million in its dutch and
international portfolios in 2016. the residential fund invested € 255 million last year in a large number of
high-quality and sustainable new-build properties, securing a solid pipeline for the years ahead. the retail fund
once again focused on the optimisation of its portfolio, through a number of acquisitions and the development or
redevelopment of new and standing assets. last year saw the completion of the nowadays (damrak and
nieuwendijk) redevelopment in amsterdam’s city centre, along with the unveiling of the revamped beurspassage
and the opening of a primark flagship store. the office fund also continued on the optimisation path, continuing
and initiating a number of major redevelopment projects. the fund also acquired the hourglass building, a
prestigious mixed-use (office and hotel) new-build project in amsterdam’s zuidas business district. in addition,
both the healthcare fund and the hotel fund invested in new assets last year. meanwhile, bouwinvest’s
international investments invested in pan-asian hotels, us retail, australian student accommodation, european
offices and nordic commercial property, together with a number of top-up investments in core funds in australia
and japan.


supervisory board meetings
the supervisory board met seven times in the course of 2016 and conducted a total of ten conference calls,
specifically for international investments and investments in the dutch funds, including the hourglass investment
in amsterdam by the office fund and the hotel fund. all members of the supervisory board were frequently
present. the main subjects discussed at these meetings were bouwinvest’s strategy, the strategy of the funds it
manages and its investments in international listed and unlisted real estate funds, together with real estate
market developments. the supervisory board also discussed the investment plan real estate 2017–2019 for
bpfbouw, the various (quarterly) reports and bouwinvest’s compliance and risk management policies. the board
assessed investment proposals for the funds and the international portfolio and supervised the application of the
related party transactions policy. the members of the board also attended two themed sessions on real estate
markets, one looking at hotels and the other exploring developments on the retail real estate market. the board
appreciates these opportunities to gain insight into the latest trends and developments in the global real estate
world.


the supervisory board discussed the medium-term strategy and offered advice on bouwinvest’s long-term strategy
and the management of the bouwinvest funds, including the governance of bouwinvest and the bouwinvest funds.
in november 2016, the board discussed and approved bouwinvest’s business plan for the period 2017-2019.


new clients
in 2016, bouwinvest welcomed a number of new clients to its funds. as per 1 january 2017, three new clients had
committed to the residential fund, the retail fund and the office fund, taking the total number of clients to 17,
including bpfbouw. the supervisory board was pleased to welcome these new clients to its three main funds, and
to note a continuing interest in all of bouwinvest’s funds.


financial performance
in four meetings, the supervisory board discussed the company’s quarterly reports, as well as the quarterly reports
related to compliance, risk management and business incidents. the board discussed the financial statements for
2016 in march 2017. the supervisory board also assessed the 2016 annual general meeting.


finally, the supervisory board dealt with separate reports on bouwinvest’s management of bpfbouw’s
international portfolio and its heritage portfolio.


corporate social responsibility (csr)
as it does each year, the supervisory board devoted extra attention to bouwinvest’s csr strategy. we are pleased
to report that bouwinvest's three dutch sector funds were awarded gresb green star status for the third year in a
row. this was thanks once again to the transparency of the funds' reporting on csr and sustainability-related
matters and the funds’ ongoing efforts to increase the sustainability of their business operations and their real
estate portfolios. more than three-quarters of bouwinvest’s international portfolio is invested in unlisted funds
that have been awarded green star certification.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                               13



other subjects
in 2016, the supervisory board met once in the absence of the board of directors. this meeting was convened to
discuss and evaluate the performance of the supervisory board, its committees and its individual members. the
self-evaluation was based on an extensive questionnaire. the main conclusion was that the board is performing
well and effectively. the supervisory board also discussed the performance of the board of directors and its
individual members. at least once a year, the chairman of the supervisory board meets with the head of
compliance. in 2016, they met once and reported no specific points of attention.


members of the supervisory board attended several meetings of the bouwinvest works council. also last year,
bouwinvest installed its first fully elected works council. no less than 90% of bouwinvest’s employees voted in
this election, a testament to the engagement of the company’s workforce. following the election, the average age
of the members of the works council had fallen to 40 from an average age of 56, which constitutes a welcome
rejuvenation of the council. the supervisory board welcomes the new works council and we look forward to
working with the new members in the year ahead.


audit committee meetings
the audit committee has two members: j.h.w.r. van der vlist, chairman, and r. th. wijmenga. the audit committee
met four times in 2016, to discuss the annual and quarterly results and the reports from the external auditor. the
audit committee also met with the external auditor in the absence of the board of directors.


in addition to financial reporting, the audit committee discussed the auditor’s report, valuations, the monitoring
and control framework, including risk management, the risk reports, the compliance reports and the internal audit
function. the internal auditor has a separate line of reporting to the chairman of the audit committee. the
committee also devoted particular attention to the isae 3402 type ii certification. the audit committee advised
the supervisory board on the performance of the external auditor, which was judged adequate.


selection and remuneration committee meetings
the selection and remuneration committee has two members, c.g. gehrels, chairman, and c.j. beuving. the
selection & remuneration committee met twice. the committee discussed bouwinvest’s hrm policy,
(management) development and succession planning. the committee also discussed the performance of the
members of the board of directors and target-setting.


a word of thanks
we would like to thank the board of directors and all bouwinvest employees for their hard work and commitment
and the excellent results they achieved for bouwinvest in 2016.


amsterdam, 20 march 2017


the supervisory board
kees beuving, chairman
jan van der vlist
roel wijmenga
carolien gehrels

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                    14




report of the board of directors
composition of the board of directors
                            chairman of the board of directors and statutory director
                            d.j. (dick) van hal (1958, dutch nationality)


                            dick van hal has been chairman of the board of directors since his appointment on 1
                            march 2008. from 1999 until that time, he held several senior positions at syntrus
                            achmea vastgoed, including managing director and ceo. dick started his career with
                            centraal beheer beleggingen and staal bankiers. he studied investment analysis (vba)
                            at the university of amsterdam. dick is also vice-chairman of ivbn (dutch association
                            of institutional investors in real estate).


                            managing director finance
                            a. (arno) van geet (1973, dutch nationality)


                            arno van geet joined bouwinvest as managing director finance on 1 october 2014. prior
                            to joining bouwinvest, he spent his entire career in the financial sector, including
                            various management roles at interpolis and westland utrecht hypotheekbank, most
                            recently as chief financial officer at allianz nederland. arno is responsible for financial
                            and risk management, accounting, reporting, corporate control, internal audit,
                            business process management, it and research. arno studied law and economics at the
                            university of utrecht.


                            managing director dutch investments
                            a. (allard) van spaandonk (1961, dutch nationality)


                            allard van spaandonk joined bouwinvest on 1 november 2008, as director asset
                            management. as of 1 january 2013, allard has been managing director dutch
                            investments, responsible for investments in dutch real estate. he was previously the
                            director of the retail and residential portfolios at syntrus achmea vastgoed, as well as
                            head of residential mortgages at achmea vastgoed. allard started his real estate career
                            at abp hypotheken in 1986. he is also board member of neprom.


                            managing director international investments
                            s.a. (stephen) tross (1967, dutch nationality)


                            stephen tross was appointed as managing director international investments on 1
                            september 2010. he joined bouwinvest in 2009 as coo international investments.
                            stephen previously worked in the real estate audit practices at kpmg accountants nv
                            and pwc in the netherlands, new york and london. he studied business economics at
                            the hogeschool utrecht and accountancy at nivra-nyenrode. stephen is a professional
                            member of the british institution of chartered surveyors and a member of the anrev
                            management board. he is also supervisory board member of lekkerleven b.v., a dutch
                            service organisation.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                              15




company profile
bouwinvest has been investing in real estate on behalf of the pension fund for the construction industry
(bpfbouw) since 1952. thanks to the experience and expertise bouwinvest has acquired over the past 64 years,
bouwinvest is now a specialist with in-depth knowledge of the worlds of real estate and pension funds.
bouwinvest currently invests on behalf of 17 pension funds and insurance firms.


bouwinvest manages five dutch real estate sector funds. the residential fund, the retail fund and the office fund
are open for institutional clients. bouwinvest manages the hotel fund and the healthcare fund, together with its
international real estate investments, exclusively for bpfbouw. the international portfolio includes both listed
and non-listed real estate funds in europe, north america and the asia-pacific region.


at year-end 2016, bouwinvest managed total assets of € 8.5 billion. the company’s sole shareholder is bpfbouw.
bouwinvest is based in amsterdam and at year-end 2016 employed a total of 146 professionals (136.6 ftes).

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                                              16




strategic principles
bouwinvest believes the outlook is positive for the asset management of real estate for institutional clients:
•      there will always be a need for real estate where people live, work, shop and stay and the demand is
       growing worldwide, especially in the us and the asia-pacific region;
•      real estate as an investment offers a range of benefits for institutional clients: diversification, risk-return
       profile between shares and bonds, stable rental income and inflation hedge;
•      the extra solvency and liquidity requirements, the risks and the costs of investments in real estate are
       controllable when you take a systematic approach and you have a professional management organisation.
       this is exactly what bouwinvest can provide.


mission
bouwinvest aims to provide a solid return on real estate investments for clients and their beneficiaries and strives
to do this in a responsible manner.


strategy
bouwinvest invests with a long-term scope in transparent and stable countries, in highly marketable real estate
sectors, high-quality assets in cities/metropolitan regions and takes into account the risk-return profile that
matches the long-term obligations of its clients.


                               strategy
specialist or generalist?      as an investment manager, bouwinvest focuses on national and international real estate investments for
                               institutional clients.


                               bouwinvest has been active as an investment manager in real estate since 1952, and is therefore a specialist real
                               estate manager.
liability-driven profiel or in view of the investment beliefs, the prudent person principle, the alm secondary conditions and the esg criteria
maximising return profile? of institutional clients, bouwinvest has a long-term focus on transparent and stable countries, highly marketable
                            real estate sectors, high-quality assets and a risk/return profile that matches the long-term commitments of its
                            clients.


                               bouwinvest opts for the strategy that provides a good hedge for the commitments and the inflation risks of its
                               clients and is therefore liability-driven.
multi-client or                the illiquid nature and the long-term commitments of real estate require easy and continuous access to
single-client?                 institutional capital. permanently available funding safeguards continuity at bouwinvest and ensures that the
                               company is constantly and consistently in the market for the best investment transactions. a multi-client
                               approach limits the funding risk.


                               it is important that bouwinvest has a multi-client strategy.
multi-asset or mono-asset? in the real estate sector, bouwinvest focuses on countries and sectors that fall within the scope of the liability
                           hedging profile. this approach increases bouwinvest’s investment opportunities, contributes to the mixed living
                               environment and offers its clients opportunities for diversification.


                               bouwinvest spreads its risk across sectors and regions: multi-asset.
multi-channel or               there are various ways of acquiring and managing the desired real estate investments: direct, indirect, unlisted
mono-channel?                  and listed investments, joint ventures and club deals. bouwinvest wants to use all possible channels to gain
                               access to the best possible assets. real estate is a ‘local business’. in the netherlands, bouwinvest does its own
                               asset management; at an international level, bouwinvest works with carefully selected local managers.


                               bouwinvest wants to use all possible channels: therefore multi-channel.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                       17




market highlights
international markets
the year started with a slowdown in chinese economic growth, and a major dip in asian stock markets, which did
eventually rebound. growth may be slowing, but china is still recording annual gdp growth between 6 and 7%,
putting the rest of the world’s economies in the shade. the brexit vote in the uk came as another major surprise to
most and led to a great deal of uncertainty in europe and beyond, testing the fragile economic recovery in most
european markets. the potential impact of brexit on both the uk and its main trading partners is still very
uncertain and europe-wide annual gdp growth forecasts have been revised downward to an average of 1.7%, from
a previous forecast of 1.9%. the run-up to the us elections and the surprise victory of donald trump added to the
prevailing uncertainty and this is likely to persist for the foreseeable future, or at least until the political direction
the us will take under a donald trump presidency has become clearer. on top of this, political unrest is on the rise,
with large numbers of voters in europe unhappy with the current political status quo.


on a brighter note, the sheer weight of capital looking for investments buoyed sentiment in the world’s real estate
markets. due to persistent low interest rates and extremely volatile stock markets, real estate has become a very
attractive alternative for risk-averse investors searching for stable returns, like pension funds and other
institutional investors. investment yields are well below their long-term average in all regions. however,
supported by all-time low yields on risk-free alternatives, yield gaps remain healthy and are attracting more capital
to real estate. real estate was set to attract some usd 1 trillion in 2016. most global markets benefited from this
movement in capital in 2016 and saw solid capital growth. the favourable occupier market outlook for well-located
assets now seems largely incorporated in today's prices and an increasing number of investors are now turning to
slightly off-pitch properties.


dutch market
the dutch real estate market has recovered swiftly in the last two or three years and investment appetite is still
growing. dutch pension funds once again increased their real estate investments in the netherlands last year and
are looking to expand their allocation to real estate in the years ahead, driven by persistent low interest rates, low
returns on bond markets and overly volatile stock markets. on top of this, international investors have now set
their sights firmly on the dutch market, and they now account for over 50% of real estate investments in the
netherlands. dutch prime markets like amsterdam, utrecht, the hague and rotterdam are still attractively priced
compared to other key european markets such as london, paris and munich, where prices are already above
pre-crisis levels. however, the interest from both dutch and international investors is quickly pushing up prices
and investors are being forced to broaden their view from a strong focus on prime to include real estate in a
number of sub-prime locations.


after several rough years, the dutch residential market has recovered to pre-crisis levels. the ever-increasing
number of households and low production of housing stock during and after the crisis further boosted structural
shortage of housing. driven by the ongoing urbanisation trend, housing shortages in the country’s main cities
have rapidly pushed up prices, with amsterdam leading the pack, but closely followed by the likes of rotterdam,
utrecht and the hague. a combination of stable rental growth and yield shift resulted in very positive total returns
in 2016. there is a huge demand for liberalised sector rental homes. this is pushing up prices and increasing
competition for high-quality assets in prime locations.


due to stable population growth and the ageing of the population, the demand for healthcare real estate is
expected to show very solid growth in the coming decades. while overall population growth will be concentrated
on the main cities of the netherlands, households with residents aged 65 years and older are set to grow right
across the country. the number of elderly people is forecast to grow in all 390 municipalities for at least another 15
years. in total, the number of elderly in the netherlands is expected to increase to 2.9 million households in 2030
from 2.0 million in 2015. this makes healthcare a very interesting sector for institutional investors.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                    18



office space demand is obviously very sensitive to economic cycles and thanks to the continued firming of dutch
economic growth and a fairly solid rise in business confidence, the prospects for the office market look more
promising than they have for some time. this is partly due to falling unemployment, which dipped to 5.6% in 2016.
however, qualitative demand has changed, driven by companies searching for cost efficiencies and the advent of
new (mobile) technologies. tenants are focusing on specific location types, but are also less bound to a single
office and are looking for more flexibility, such as smaller satellite offices. these days, prime office locations tend
to include high-quality and multi-tenant offices, with excellent road and public transport links in regions with a
ready pool of highly-skilled employees. the flip side of this is that a growing number of secondary locations are
gradually losing tenants, leaving large office buildings completely vacant and with little prospect of future
tenants. this polarisation between prime and secondary (in terms of both locations and real estate) is now evident
and is expected to continue for the foreseeable future.


this polarisation is also affecting the dutch retail market. the bankruptcy of several large dutch retailer chains in
late 2015 left a large number of square metres vacant. other retailers were forced to renegotiate their lease terms.
on a more positive note, a large number of major international retail chains, such as primark and zara, have
adapted swiftly and now have a solid position on the dutch retail market. retailer demand is focused on
high-quality, large-scale retail units in prime locations. thanks to this demand, the take-up of a large part of the
retail property left vacant by the 2015 bankruptcies has been fairly swift. however, most experts expect to see
further differentiation in the retail landscape in terms of prime and secondary retail real estate.


another real estate sector set for solid growth and stable returns is the hotel sector, as tourism in the netherlands
continues to grow. the number of tourists visiting the country increased by 7% in 2015 and increased by another
3% in 2016. amsterdam in particular benefitted from the increase in foreign tourist arrivals. the depreciation of the
euro also helped to push tourism from outside the euro region. in reaction to this strong demand from tourists, the
dutch hotel market has increased in size significantly in recent years. the dutch star-rated hotel market consists
of approximately 2,160 hotels and more than 100,000 rooms, with 30,000 of these rooms in amsterdam. thanks to
the rapid pace of hotel development in amsterdam, the city is already set to add approximately 6,500 rooms to its
current stock. new restrictive hotel development policies will limit the development of new hotels, which should
be favourable for existing stock after 2020, when the majority of new supply will have been added to the total
stock.



portfolio results
international investments
bouwinvest's international investments delivered a solid performance modest performance in 2016. the total
return came in at 5.3%, excluding currency results and after management fees. in 2016, unlisted investments made
the largest contribution to this result (7.7%). however, the return of the listed investments was negatively affected
by the uncertainty in global markets and amounted to -3.5% (2015: 9.6%). despite the growing competition, we
were able to make new investments of eur 279 million in 2016.


unless stated otherwise, all returns mentioned below are excluding currency results.


europe
our european portfolio recorded a return of 2.7% in 2016, with returns pressured primarily by geo-political and
macro-economic developments. these included the ecb’s continued loose monetary policy, immigration issues and
of course the unexpected brexit vote. on top of this, the uk increased stamp duty by 1%, which led to a
corresponding drop in values. our returns were also slightly negatively impacted by the sharp fluctuations in the
gbp-eur fx rate in eur funds with exposure to sterling. however, the prevailing volatility in european markets –
and elsewhere - did create some excellent opportunities to enter the market at the low end of the cycle. we made
some very solid investments in commercial real estate (mainly offices and retail) in the nordics, as well as gateway
offices in main cities such as london, paris, berlin and frankfurt, all of which have solid fundamentals. lastly, we
increased our listed investments in western-european offices. a significant part of our uk exposure is in
mezzanine finance, which offers protection from initial write-downs. plus we have a lot of exposure to properties
with very long leases. we expect these investments to continue to contribute to solid returns in the future.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                                          19



north america
the us market was dominated by the presidential elections in 2016. despite the uncertainty in the run-up to the
election and the victory of donald trump, real estate fundamentals continued to improve last year, with rental
growth above inflation and property yields still hovering around record lows, although at a comfortable cushion
above us treasuries. the lower deferred tax liability as a result of the recent new firpta regulations had a positive
impact on the returns at total portfolio level and also improved the net return profile for value added strategies.
the northern american portfolio delivered another strong performance in 2016, ending the year with a total return
of 8.8%. these results were bolstered by continued growth in demand and the lack of sufficient new supply. this
led to rental growth in most us markets and sectors. there are concerns that the us market has peaked and we
may see some cooling, but there will always be opportunities on a market this large. prices are high at the
moment, but these are largely justified by low interest rates and persistently strong investor demand. we
continued to focus on the larger us cities last year, as these have the strongest fundamentals.


asia-pacific
the asia-pacific portfolio delivered a return of 2.7% in 2016. the region’s markets showed a certain level of volatility
due to fears of an economic slowdown in china – which is still recording annual gdp growth of 6-7% – largely offset
improving fundamentals in countries like australia. australian real estate funds with low leverage delivered solid
double-digit growth. japanese investments also performed well, but singapore retail investments were hit by a
weakening market. we also managed to sell office exposure at a good price. we expanded the asia-pacific portfolio
last year, adding investments in the pan-asian hotel sector, which is growing rapidly thanks to the huge increase in
tourist travel. we also invested in australian student accommodation in a joint venture with scape and apg. we
are still very bullish on the asia-pacific region, and we made a number of top-up investments in australian and
japanese real estate funds. chinese economic growth is now much more sustainable than in the past and australia,
where we have a lot of investments, is proving remarkably resilient, with very strong fundamentals and a solid
long-term outlook. the bank of japan’s buy-up of j-reits is having a major positive impact on listed real estate
investments in japan and this is set to continue for some time.


sustainability
benchmark international real estate investments
last year, bouwinvest continued its active cooperation with other institutional investors aimed at increasing
sustainability and transparency in the real estate sector. we extended our membership of gresb as an investor
member and encouraged the fund managers of our (international) indirect investments to participate in the gresb
benchmark and to improve their scores.


highlights gresb results international portfolio
•        overall gresb participation improved to 72% of bpfbouw’s total international portfolio (2015: 65%);
•        69% of bpfbouw’s international portfolio has a green star;
•        index outperformance of bpfbouw’s international portfolio with a score of 64 (compared with 60);
•        energy consumption reduction of 4% and a 6% reduction in ghg emissions in bpfbouw’s international
         portfolio in the period 2014-2015.


                                                                          2012          2013          2014                  2015             2016
response rate gresb (based on nav)
listed                                                                     82%           76%           55%                  62%              58%
non-listed                                                                 46%           59%           70%                  66%              75%
total portfolio                                                            50%           61%           67%                  65%              72%


outperforming benchmark gresb listed                                       79%           75%           78%                  83%              94%
outperforming benchmark gresb unlisted                                     56%           38%           49%                  66%              64%


number of green stars listed                                                  8             9            18        21 (out of 26)   19 (out of 21)
number of green stars unlisted                                                7            11            15        18 (out of 32)   17 (out of 29)


listed improved performance (compared to last year)                        n/a           31%           54%                  78%              38%
unlisted improved performance (compared to last year)                      n/a           48%           43%                  91%              69%

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                     20



dutch investments
bouwinvest manages five dutch investment funds, three of which are open to third-party investors. our main
focus is on the residential, office and retail sectors in what we have identified as our core regions. these regions all
have an above–average economic and demographic outlook and will benefit from the above-mentioned
megatrends, such as the urbanisation trend, the ageing of the population and the rise of new technologies. we
also invest in the healthcare sector, as we believe the ageing of the population will continue to increase demand
for real estate with a healthcare element. the rapid rise in tourism is also increasing demand for hotels. this is a
positive development for our hotel fund.


residential fund
the residential fund generated a total return of 20.5% (2015: 12.5%), with a direct return of 3.4% (2015: 3.8%), and an
indirect return of 17.1% (2015: 8.6%). the fund had a high and stable average occupancy rate of 97.7%. like-for-like
rental growth for 2016 came in at 3.2% (2015: 3.8%), while rent arrears were low at 0.7% (2015: 0.9%). the dividend
return for 2016 came in at 3.4% (2015: 3.8%).


the residential fund once again reaped the benefits of bouwinvest’s growth strategy and its confidence in the
residential market in recent years and saw the completion and delivery of eight excellent new-build projects,
nearly all of which were fully let before completion. we currently have a secured pipeline of 11 new residential
projects (1,063 apartments and 194 family homes) following investments of around € 255 million in 2016. demand
for high-quality homes the liberalised rental sector is still growing, especially in our core markets.


thanks to the continued recovery in the residential sector and the very high quality of the residential portfolio, the
fund to attracted six new clients in 2016. this took the total number of clients to 16 as of january 2017.


at year-end 2016, the fund’s property portfolio consisted of 237 properties with a total value of € 3.9 billion.


retail fund
the retail fund booked a return of 8.4 % in 2016 (2015: 4.5%), the result of a direct return of 4.6% (2015: 4.4%) and an
indirect return of 3.9% (2015: 0.1%). the average occupancy rate was 94.7% (2015: 94.2%). the dividend return for
2015 was 4.6% (2015: 4.4%).

the dutch economy continued to recover in 2016; this led to a strong rise in consumer confidence. furthermore,
international investors' boosted interest in retail real estate resulted in a yield shift. this in turn led to a healthy
increase in the values of the fund’s retail assets in amsterdam and its other core regions in both the experience
and convenience segments. the fund continued to optimise its portfolio in 2016, adding new assets and
redeveloping and upgrading existing assets. while retail real estate will remain a challenging sector in the years
ahead, we believe that thanks to a good balance of 'experience' and 'convenience' oriented retail real estate
assets, the retail fund’s portfolio will continue to generate solid returns in the years ahead.


in 2016, we saw the completion and delivery of the nowadays redevelopment at damrak/nieuwendijk in
amsterdam, one of the largest retail redevelopments in the capital in decades. we also took delivery of the
stadionplein and mosveld shopping centres in the convenience segment. the retail fund invested around € 31
million last year and will continue to upgrade and future-proof existing assets and look for acquisitions that meet
our quality and return requirements.


the retail fund attracted three new clients in 2016. as of 1 january 2017, we welcomed an additional new client,
taking the total number of clients to five. we see this as an endorsement of our strategy of focusing on the
experience and convenience segments of the retail market and a clear sign that investors still believe that the
retail sector offers opportunities for stable long-term returns.


in 2016, the retail fund agreed new leases and renewed existing contracts for a total of 72,997 m² of space,
representing a rental value of some € 16.6 million.


at the end of 2016, the fund’s portfolio consisted of 47 properties with a total value of € 778 million.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                     21



office fund
the office fund booked a return of 5.5% in 2015 (2015: 0.5%), the result of a direct return of 3.6% (2015: 4.2%) and an
indirect return of 1.9% (2015: -3.7%). the average occupancy rate was stable at around 81% in 2016 from 80.1% in
2015, largely due to the high proportion of properties we are currently redeveloping. the dividend return came in
at 3.6% (2015: 4.2%). the strong turnaround in the indirect return was driven by higher valuations for a number
office properties on the back of redevelopment plans.


after several years of outperformance as compared to the ipd index, the fund’s relative performance dipped
somewhat over the past two years. last year was a year of portfolio optimisation for the office fund. the highlight
of 2016 was the acquisition of the hourglass, a mixed-use building in amsterdam’s zuidas business district. the
fund also invested € 3.0 million in the continued upgrade of the wtc rotterdam and launched the redevelopment
of the former citroën buildings (the olympic 1931 and the olympic 1962) in amsterdam.


in 2016, the wtc the hague was awarded breeam-nl in-use excellent certification. this is the first time this score
at building and building management level has been awarded to a multi-tenant asset in the netherlands. active
asset management and continued investments in upgrading and updating its office assets ensured that the fund
renewed or signed new leases for a total of 15,509 m², representing an annual rental income of € 2.9 million in 2016.


the fund attracted another new client in 2016, a clear demonstration of the renewed confidence in the office
sector, as well as in the office fund’s strategy and the high quality of its portfolio. as of 1 january 2017, the fund's
total number of clients is three.


at year-end 2016, the fund’s portfolio consisted of 16 properties with a total value of € 503 million.


hotel fund
the hotel fund recorded a profit of € 20.7 million in 2016, compared with € 11.5 million in 2015. the fund‘s total
return rose to 14.2% in 2016 from 8.4% in 2015.


highlights of the year include a turnkey purchase agreement (together with the office fund) for a 115-room
extended-stay hotel in the hourglass, a multifunctional building in amsterdam’s zuidas business district. this
hotel is a turnkey project and the fund has signed a 20-year fixed-rent lease with tenant premier suites. the
hourglass building is scheduled for completion in 2020. the fund also signed a head of terms for extended-stay
accommodation (82 rooms) in amsterdam houthavens in december 2016 with the consortium boot&co, together
with a 25-year lease with tenant city id group. completion of the hotel is expected in the fourth quarter of 2018.
the fund acquired the stayokay hotel amsterdam (112-room hostel) and signed a 25-year lease with tenant
stayokay.


healthcare fund
the healthcare fund reported a net result of € 1.1 million in 2016, compared with € 1.9 million in 2015. the total
fund return (roe) came in at 4.9% in 2016, 2.4% above budget and 2.8% lower than in 2015 (7.7%). returns will be
below the long-term target in the coming years, as the fund acquires new projects, which result in no rent and
therefore no direct income (rent), as most of the properties acquired will be new-build complexes.


in 2016, the fund’s property portfolio increased to € 46.9 million from € 24.1 million at year-end 2015. the fund
added one new asset to the portfolio, the martha flora complex in haarlem (as of december). construction work
started on the aliantus oud-seyst in zeist in august, and the complex will be completed in the summer of 2017. in
total, the fund signed transactions worth € 46.6 million in 2016. at year-end 2016, the healthcare fund had a
pipeline of € 55.5 million in assets under construction or redevelopment.


dutch real estate funds retain green star status
bouwinvest uses the global real estate sustainability benchmark (gresb) to measure and compare the
sustainability performance of our three main dutch sector funds. in 2016, bouwinvest's three main dutch sector
funds once again actively participated in this initiative, which is aimed at boosting transparency and sustainability
in the real estate sector. thanks to this strategy and the actions that bouwinvest continued to make last year,
bouwinvest's residential, retail and office funds were awarded green star status for the third year in a row. green
star is the highest possible category in the gresb rankings and obviously we will be doing our utmost to retain
this status in 2017 and beyond.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016   22

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                     23




financial performance bouwinvest in 2016
income
net income came in at € 2.6 million in 2016, compared with € 4.4 million in 2015. the operating income
was € 2.4 million in 2016, € 2.6 million lower than in 2015. this decrease was primarily due to the increase of € 2.9
million in operating expenses, offset by a slight increase in the management fee.


management fee
the management fee increased by € 0.2 million to € 30.7 million in 2016 (2015: € 30.5 million). despite the increase in
assets under management by 13% (2016: € 8.5 billion; 2015: € 7.5 billion), the management fee was only marginally
higher, due to a fee incentive of € 3.2 million granted to bpfbouw.


operating costs
operating costs rose by € 2.9 million (11.4%) to € 28.3 million in 2016, compared with € 25.4 million in 2015. these
higher costs were the result of a € 1.3 million increase in personnel costs and a € 1.6 million increase in other
operating costs. this benefits the funds and increases the costs for the management company, at a stable
management fee.


the higher personnel costs were caused by an increase in the number of ftes to 136.6 in 2016 (2015: 131.1), hiring of
temporary staff and an increase in training costs. this increase will enable bouwinvest to record controlled growth
of its assets under management and remain state-of-the-art as an organisation.


the increase in other costs was further due to an increase in costs related to ‘non-deductible vat’. this was the
result of a ruling by the tax inspector, as a result of which the vat exemption related to joint asset management
was applicable retroactively. consequently, the level of non-deductible vat increased to 70% from 50%. this led to
a one-off extra cost item of € 0.6 million for the period 2013-2015 and € 0.5 million for 2016.


additional other operating costs were the rise of costs for ict (€ 0.2 million) related to a number of it projects (e.g.
the renewal of the erm architecture and new planning software), as well as costs related to the increase in the
number of applications. furthermore, to boost the company's corporate positioning and visibility,
communications expenses increased with € 0.1 million in 2016. and finally, another € 0.2 million in other operating
costs related to taking out a general professional liability insurance.


fiscal result
deferred tax assets are less the calculated corporate taxes of € 1.0 million for 2016 and an additional write-off of
€ 0.4 million related to a recalculation of the deferred tax assets. deferred tax assets are recognised on the basis of
losses from previous years that may be settled with the tax authorities. these deferred tax assets can be realised
in the coming two years through to year-end 2018. a deferred tax liability of € 0.4 million is accounted for regarding
the difference between the fiscal and the commercial valuation of participations.


financial position
bouwinvest’s shareholders’ equity remained virtually stable at € 29.3 million in 2016, from € 29.4 million at year-end
2015. this was due to the addition of the net profit, less the € 2.7 million in dividend paid out to bpfbouw. the
solvency ratio decreased by 10% to 79% in 2016, as a result of the fee incentive payable to bpfbouw.


cash position
at year-end 2016, bouwinvest had a total of € 21.2 million available in its current account with our house bank abn
amro. this was more than sufficient to cover all outstanding liabilities and was also in line with the formal
requirements of the alternative investment fund manager directive (aifmd).


profit allocation and dividend policy
the management proposes to allocate the result to other reserves.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                 24




outlook
in the year ahead, bouwinvest expects to increase its portfolio of assets under management to € 9 billion from the
current € 8.5 billion. around one-third of the total portfolio currently consists of assets in the international
portfolio managed for bpfbouw. we expect international investments to account for 37% of the total portfolio in
2019.


on an international level, we expect more investments in the north american and asia-pacific regions to give the
portfolio a more balanced geographical spread. we expect global real estate investment markets to remain highly
dynamic and that investment pressure will continue to lead to yield compression in the best locations, which will
in turn lead to renewed interest in secondary products. at the same time, we expect our long-term return to be
5-7%, in line with our targets.


in the netherlands, the conditions are near perfect for real estate: low interest rates, population growth, economic
growth, growing employment, the recovery of consumer confidence and high real estate transaction volumes. but
we also expect to face a number challenges in the dutch market. how vibrant will dutch city centres remain given
the changes we are seeing in the retail landscape? how do we make sure the cities outside the top 10 remain
attractive? what is likely to happen on the (rental) residential market? how will the elections affect the current
policy for the mid-rental segment? how do we ensure a diversified supply in our major cities, and how do we make
sure there are enough affordable homes?


real estate market cycles do not run concurrently and it is possible to mitigate risks by continuing to spread
investments across continents, countries, cities, sectors and investment products. we will continue to follow that
strategy. our acquisition strategy will remain focused on quality assets in stable countries, transparent markets
and highly-marketable sectors.


amsterdam, 20 march 2017


bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v.
dick van hal, chairman and statutory director
arno van geet, managing director finance
allard van spaandonk, managing director dutch investments
stephen tross, managing director international investments

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                 25




corporate social responsibility
introduction
our view of sustainability
bouwinvest aims to provide a solid return on real estate investments for institutional investors and their
beneficiaries and to do this in a responsible manner. what this means is that we take a long-term view and
environmental, social and governance (esg) criteria play a significant role in our investment strategy. we have
integrated social, environmental, and/or ethical considerations in our core business strategy and operations to
create more value for our stakeholders and generate better risk-adjusted financial returns for our clients.


sustainable and socially responsible investments and business operations play a key role in booking growth in a
controlled manner, future-proofing our organisation and real estate investments and is part of the role we want to
play in tackling the challenges we all face today and in the future. in other words, we see sustainability as an
inherent part of our corporate mission and our license to operate.




our sustainability mission
our ambition is to be in the leading group of sustainable real estate managers. we want to set the standard in our
sector and create and sustain stakeholder value through effective integration of material esg issues that lower
risks and future-proof our real estate investments, enhance the skills and satisfaction of our employees and
contribute to the development of the communities we invest in.


our strategy to achieve this goal is based on three main pillars:
1. long-term performance: we want to provide stable returns and improve overall performance.
2. building value: we want to create added value for all our stakeholders.
3.   sustainable partnerships: we want to develop and maintain sustainable partnerships with our stakeholders.


making this sustainability strategy an integral part of our business will enable us to respond to issues such as
investment market changes, shifting consumer demands, legislation and regulation compliance and climate
change, and helps us to safeguard the sustainable use of natural resources. we aim to do all of while still creating
value for our stakeholders.


long-term performance
in line with our csr pillars, we are focused on increasing the sustainability performance and attractiveness of the
assets in our real estate portfolios and of the funds in which we invest indirectly. not only does this boost the
long-term performance of our assets, it also increases the total value of the property portfolios we manage and
creates financial and social value for all our stakeholders.


building value
bouwinvest considers investments in sustainability from a business perspective, as we want to create sustainable
value long into the future. energy-efficiency measures improve the competitive position of our portfolios and add
value for all our stakeholders, including our clients, our tenants and our employees. however, bouwinvest’s
sustainability strategy extends beyond energy use to the social aspects of sustainability, such as investments to
upgrade local public amenities, and create a pleasant working environment where people can also meet and enjoy
various leisure activities. in effect, we have moved beyond the question of the value that sustainability can add to
our business to looking at the value our business can create for all our stakeholders, including the local
environments in which we operate and society as a whole.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                    26



sustainable partnerships
cooperation and engagement with our clients, tenants, suppliers and other stakeholders are an essential part of
our sustainability strategy. we firmly believe that we can achieve the most by working with our clients and other
stakeholders, sharing ideas and devising innovative solutions to the challenges we all face.


we also believe that the best way to ensure that our csr strategy is effective is to form sustainable long-term
partnerships with our business partners. these organisations play a vital role in our daily operations, and ensure
that our assets remain clean, safe and vibrant places. we set strict requirements for our third-party suppliers and
assess their performance regularly. we also forge long-term business partnerships with other stakeholders, such
as our investors, in which we protect the interests of our clients by conducting our business in a transparent, fair
and ethical manner, avoiding all forms of corruption and unethical conduct, while providing stable and
sustainable returns on their investments.


see the corporate governance section in this report for more details.




sustainable real estate
bouwinvest is constantly improving the transparency and sustainability performance of its three main sector
funds, both at a bricks and mortar level, area level and at fund level. we use globally accepted performance
indicators (inrev, gri) and sustainability labels (gresb, breeam) to benchmark our performance and our
progress.


for more details, please see the csr sections in our fund reports and the csr performance indicators in this annual
report



progress made in 2016
in 2016, bouwinvest took a number of significant steps to further integrate csr into its day-to-day business. our
esg pillars serve as a guide on the journey we are making with our stakeholders, to combine and integrate our
financial and sustainability ambitions to create long-term stakeholder value.


stakeholder value
in 2016, bouwinvest introduced a stakeholder value matrix to help the company identify the key issues related to
ethics, law, society, compliance, risks and human resources, and devise a strategy to deal with them on an ongoing
basis. this matrix will help us to refine our priorities and our ambitions. it will also make us more aware of just how
essential it is to integrate esg criteria in our day-to-day business. moreover, the matrix will serve as the starting
point for discussions with various relevant stakeholder groups.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                  27



co2 footprint bouwinvest organisation
in 2012, bouwinvest started to improve the transparency of the management organisation's co2 emissions. a year
later, we expressed our ambition to make our operations carbon-neutral by 2020. we have already made significant
progress in reducing our emissions in recent years and we took further steps to reduce emissions in 2016. this year,
our efforts had the following results:
•      electricity consumption in our head office fell by another 8% in 2016, taking total reduction to 42% since the
       start of active energy management in 2010.
•      changes in waste processing resulted in a decrease in the related emissions of 66% compared to 2015.
•      the use of more fuel-efficient lease cars (including hybrid and electric lease cars) resulted in stable co2
       emissions, while the number of kilometres driven increased by 2%.
•      a side-effect of an increase in our international real estate allocation was a 35% increase in co2 emissions
       from air travel compared to 2015.


these and other measures led to a total reduction in our total co2 emissions of 1% compared to the previous year.
carbon emissions intensity, calculated as tonnes of co2 /fte dropped by 5%.


within the dutch portfolio various measures are taken to reduce energy levels and co2 emissions. the remainder
of the co2 emissions related to energy usage are offset by purchasing so-called 'guarantees of origin' (garanties
van oorsprong). this is part of our policy to limit the negative impact on the environment and stimulate the use of
sustainable sources. for more information about the environmental impact of the real estate portfolio and the
results achieved, see the respective annual fund reports and the csr performance indicators set out in the annex.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                    28




human resources management
﻿
introduction
the focus of bouwinvest’s human resources management (hrm) policy is to ensure the company has the optimum
number of staff, consisting of highly-educated, engaged and enthusiastic professionals who work together to
realise our business goals and create value for our stakeholders. we see highly enthusiastic people as the key to
our success. bouwinvest can only continue to book sustained progress while remaining firmly in control thanks to
their commitment, dedication and hard work.


long-term strong performance
bouwinvest has 146 employees (136.6 ftes) and € 8.5 billion in assets under management. this means we need a
flexible organisation to achieve our goals of solid returns and controlled growth. an organisation that can respond
effectively to the rapid changes in the real estate world and the laws and regulations we need to deal with. for
that, we need expert and engaged employees, we need to recruit people who fit within our organisation, with the
right skills and expertise, and we need to retain those people by offering opportunities for personal and
professional growth.


we have strategic personal planning and succession planning in place, as part of our business planning cycle. the
input for this plan comes from the reim business plan, the fund plans and investment plans, department plans and
the plans of individual employees. bouwinvest has a development programme for team leaders and high
potentials. we conduct a bi-annual employee engagement survey, which gives our employees the opportunity to
say whether we are on the right track, but also to identify potential improvements. this is one of the ways we keep
pace with rapid developments and constantly make our organisation even more effective.


building value
bouwinvest sets great store in being a good employer. to compare our performance in the market, we use a
national benchmark (financial companies with fewer than 1,000 employees). we emerged as third in the
netherlands according to this benchmark. as an employer, bouwinvest has a clear policy for employment terms,
hrm systems, recruitment and equal opportunities and rewards. we endorse the dutch central bank’s prudent
remuneration policy.


bouwinvest believes in a healthy work-life balance and offers individually customised working hours, part-time
contracts, it tools to support work anytime anywhere and generous paid leave. in the office itself, we offer
customised flexible workspaces, health programmes and sports programmes. we use all of these programmes to
support the sustainable employability of our employees. bouwinvest encourages employees to participate in
activities not directly related to their day-to-day work and our young professionals can join young bouwinvest to
develop new skills and expand their networks.


sustainable partnerships
bouwinvest’s results are partly thanks to the collective efforts of all our employees, working together towards our
shared goals. we see collaboration across the organisation as essential. enhancing collaboration was therefore
one of our main corporate targets last year and to achieve this we defined and implemented a number of specific
improvements for every department.


innovation was another collective target in 2016. bouwinvest set up an innovation lab last year, to encourage our
employees to stay up-to-date with innovations in the real estate world. technological innovations have an impact
on virtually all areas of real estate and how it is used. the innovation lab has led to a number of initiatives that we
are currently working on and implementing.


last year, bouwinvest installed its first elected works council. more than 90% of our employees participated in the
elections. other opportunities for employees to help shape our organisation included projects such as the
(re)development of business tools or helping to devise a new corporate mobility concept. we find that this kind of
engagement with employees increases understanding and buy-in for the choices we make, which in turn facilitates
the smooth implementation of organisational changes.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                 29




corporate governance
﻿
bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. (‘bouwinvest’) is a private limited liability company with a
board of directors and a supervisory board. bouwinvest is a wholly-owned subsidiary of stichting
bedrijfstakpensioenfonds voor de bouwnijverheid (bpfbouw), the dutch pension fund for the construction
industry.



board of directors
bouwinvest has a board of directors, consisting of one statutory director, also chairman of the board, and three
managing directors: the managing director finance, the managing director dutch investments and the managing
director international investments. the statutory director is appointed by the general meeting of shareholders
following nomination by bouwinvest’s supervisory board. the board of directors is governed by a set of
regulations that also outline its tasks and responsibilities.



supervisory board
bouwinvest has an independent supervisory board with a minimum of three and a maximum of five members. the
supervisory board currently has four members. the maximum term of office is four years, with the possibility of
reappointment for an additional four years. the role of the supervisory board is to supervise the policies of the
board of directors and the general affairs of the company and its related business. the supervisory board is
responsible for the quality of its own performance. the members of the supervisory board are appointed by the
general meeting of shareholders. in carrying out its duties, the supervisory board is guided by the interests of the
company and the business connected with it.


committees
the supervisory board has appointed an audit committee and a selection & remuneration committee. the task of
these committees is to support the supervisory board. the audit committee’s tasks and responsibilities are set out
in the regulations of the audit committee of the supervisory board. the selection & remuneration committee’s
tasks and responsibilities are set out in the regulations of the selection & remuneration committee of the
supervisory board. more information on the composition of the committees can be found in the report of the
supervisory board elsewhere in this report.


company secretary
the supervisory board is supported by the company secretary. the company secretary ensures that the correct
procedures are followed and that the supervisory board acts in accordance with its legal and statutory obligations
and powers and the applicable corporate governance rules.



shareholders' meeting
general meetings of shareholders are held at least once a year to discuss the company’s business over the past
year and the annual report, to adopt the financial statements, decide on the dividend proposal, discharge the
board of directors for its management and discharge the members of the supervisory board for their supervision.
the meeting also appoints the members of the supervisory board and statutory director. shareholder approval is
required for resolutions that have a material impact on bouwinvest’s strategy or risk profile.


corporate governance code
although the dutch corporate governance code is not mandatory for bouwinvest as an unlisted company, the
board of directors endorses the best practices of the code as far as applicable to bouwinvest.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                  30




funds managed by bouwinvest
the management company manages the following funds:
•     bouwinvest dutch institutional residential fund n.v.
•     bouwinvest dutch institutional retail fund n.v.
•     bouwinvest dutch institutional office fund n.v.
•     bouwinvest dutch institutional hotel fund n.v.
•      bouwinvest dutch institutional healthcare fund n.v.


three of these funds, the residential fund, the retail fund and the office fund, are open to institutional investors.
bouwinvest has a separate mandate from bpfbouw for the management of international real estate investments.
bouwinvest also manages bouwinvest development, a project development company.



internal audit
in line with aifmd requirements, bouwinvest established an independent internal audit function in 2012 to help us
accomplish our operational and business targets by taking a systematic, disciplined approach to the evaluation
and continuous improvement of the effectiveness of our risk management, control and governance processes.


in 2016, bouwinvest added another dedicated internal audit officer to its internal audit team to increase the
effectiveness of the monitoring of bouwinvest’s company-wide financial and operational processes and systems.
on the operational front, this involves audit of the isae processes, the custodian/depositary processes and the
afm processes, as well all it-related processes (such as cobit, sap, efront) to ensure that bouwinvest has sufficient
failsafe, recovery and data protection functions in place to safeguard its it systems. the internal audit team takes
a proactive approach to its tasks and offers advice and recommendations on potential improvements and updates
to processes and systems. in 2016, the internal audit team extended its auditing coverage to external property
managers.



external auditor
bouwinvest's external auditor is deloitte accountants b.v. deloitte audits the financial statements of bouwinvest
real estate investment management b.v. deloitte also audits the financial statements of the funds managed by
bouwinvest.



dutch management and supervision act
the dutch management and supervision act includes a guideline for a balanced gender ratio within the board of
directors and supervisory board. at least 30% of these positions should be filled by women and at least 30% by
men. bouwinvest’s board of directors and supervisory board do not yet have the above-mentioned gender
balance. based on the profiles of the members of the board of directors and of the supervisory board, in the event
of future resignations bouwinvest will carry out an evaluation to determine the desired profile of any new
members. this evaluation will take into account diversity criteria, including a balance of male and female
members.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                 31




operational control
introduction
banks, insurance companies and pension funds, but also specialised investment managers like bouwinvest, have
to deal with ever stricter regulations and monitoring by regulatory bodies. as a result, institutional investors
attach ever greater importance to internal risk management, compliance, transparency and open reporting to
stakeholders.


bouwinvest has an effective internal control framework based on the coso framework. the internal control
framework provides reasonable assurance that the management company and the funds it manages will achieve
their financial and operational objectives, the effectiveness and efficiency of the business, the reliability of its
financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. bouwinvest is in possession of a positive
isae3402 type ii statement, which was renewed for the fifth year in a row for 2016.



risk management process & internal framework
bouwinvest recognises the importance of a solid process and framework for risk management aimed at identifying
and mitigating risks, which in turn makes it possible for the company to achieve its goals more effectively.
bouwinvest has chosen the globally recognised coso framework as the basis for its risk management. this model
goes beyond internal controls and covers the entire internal management system and is known as coso ii or the
enterprise risk management framework (ermf). bouwinvest used this framework to draw up its own reporting
and monitoring framework with its four lines of defence model (see figure below). compliance, risk management,
control and internal audit have all been designed in line with this model. this model takes an integrated approach
to compliance and risk management, with policies designed to meet the requirements of regulatory bodies, public
opinion and shareholders, while the execution of supervisory functions are made as focused, efficient and cost
effective as possible.


the four lines of defence are:
1. board of directors – responsible for embedding the risk and control environment in the organisation’s
    day-to-day operations.
2. the compliance, risk management and control functions – responsible for risk-related, compliance and control
     policies, efficient and cost-effective implementation of the policies and continuous improvements.
3.   independent internal auditor – responsible for the execution of required control measures.
4.   supervisory board and external auditor – the supervisory board supervises and advises the board of directors.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                 32



bouwinvest's four lines of defence




alternative investment fund managers directive (aifmd)
in early 2014, bouwinvest was one of the first parties in the netherlands to obtain an afm licence as required by
the aifmd. this licence allows bouwinvest to manage funds that are open for other institutional investors besides
bpfbouw. the aifmd specifies certain transparency and integrity-related requirements for alternative investment
funds. in 2015, bouwinvest further optimised its reporting processes. in addition to this, bouwinvest streamlined
its cooperation with depositary intertrust. in 2016, bouwinvest conducted an assessment of the processes in place
and made any necessary improvements, but discovered no major issues. bouwinvest foresees no aifmd-related
challenges for 2017.


dutch financial supervision act
bouwinvest has obtained a licence within the meaning of article 2:65 of the dutch financial supervision act (wet
op het financieel toezicht). bouwinvest is therefore subject to supervision of the dutch financial markets
authority (afm) and the dutch central bank (dnb).



risk management
the goal of risk management is to identify and mitigate risks, which in turn makes it possible for the company to
work towards its goals more effectively. the risk management department uses a risk management cycle to
determine how targets are defined and achieved.


this annual report includes a description of the risk management of the management organisation (bouwinvest).
in addition to these corporate risks, additional risks, definitions and control measures are set for the real estate
portfolio. these risks are described in bouwinvest's investment plan and the fund plans of each of the dutch
sector funds, and are reported in the respective quarterly and annual reports.


bouwinvest recognises the following risks for the management organisation:


• continuity                   • legal and liability
• integrity                    • fiscal
• quality                      • funding
• key people                   • reputation

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                                                   33



risk matrix
risk                           definition                                                    control measures
continuity risk                the continuity risk is the risk that the management           · reim business plan
                               organisation can no longer meet the terms of its
                                                                                             · framework letters
                               agreements with bpfbouw, other clients, its own
                                                                                             · investment plans and fund plans
                               employees and the organisation
                                                                                             · annual plans business units and departments
                                                                                             · reporting process
                                                                                             · annual isae 3402 type ii audit
                                                                                             · business continuity plan
                                                                                             · service level agreements with outsourcing partners
                                                                                             · data security policy (cobit)
integrity risk                 integrity risks are associated with non-compliance with the compliance policy and measures are explained in
                               laws and regulations (such as fraud and cyber crime) or the next section
                               transparency requirements of bouwinvest, its
                               employees or any party with whom bouwinvest is
                               conducting business
quality risk                   this is the risk that the management organisation         · framework letters
                               delivers poor quality, as a result of which bouwinvest is
                                                                                         · investment plans and fund plans
                               unable to meet the terms of its agreements with its
                                                                                         · investment committee
                               clients
                                                                                         · business partner due diligence
                                                                                             · internal (process) control framework in accordance
                                                                                             with isae 3402 type ii
                                                                                             · external auditor
                                                                                             · procedure for business incidents
                                                                                             · pricing & valuation committee
key people risk                this is the risk that the organisation does not have          · transparent culture and remuneration policy
                               employees with the right skills and qualities
                                                                                             · measures to ensure high levels of employee
                                                                                             satisfaction
                                                                                             · key position succession and promotion policy
                                                                                             · building and maintaining reputation on the
                                                                                             employment market
legal and liability risk       the risk of threats to the legal position of the              · internal legal affairs department
                               organisation, including the risk of the possibility that
                                                                                             · external specialist law firms
                               contractual provisions cannot be enforced or are not
                                                                                             · various corporate and asset insurance policies
                               correctly documented
                                                                                             (professional and directors liability)
                                                                                             · risk checks on main assets
                                                                                             · insurance manual
fiscal risk                    this is the risk that the organisation’s fiscal position is   · internal tax affairs department
                               determined incorrectly, as a result of which the current
                                                                                             · (structural) external involvement tax specialists (also
                               and deferred tax (position) is depicted incorrectly
                                                                                             evaluative role)
                                                                                             · tax policy principles
funding risk                   the risk that the funding position is not adequate            · active approach to attraction of funding, which is the
                               and/or safeguarded, due to the fact that the growth of        role of the investor relations department
                               the organisation’s assets under management is not
                                                                                             · clear annual funding statement in the fund plans
                               covered by the addition of new capital from investors
                                                                                             · funding part of investment proposal
reputation risk                in the event that one of the above-mentioned risks            · transparent and frequent communications with
                               occurs, the occurrence of said risk is inevitably related     shareholders and clients
                               to (some) measure of reputation damage
                                                                                             · integrity risk analysis

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                    34



monitoring and reporting
the board of directors continuously monitors a wide array of risks in bouwinvest's various activities. to support
this monitoring and to optimise risk transparency, the risk controller produces quarterly risk reports. in 2016, there
were three types of quarterly risk reporting:
•     risk report for portfolio bpfbouw
•     risk report as part of fund reports for aif funds
•     business incident reports


both the bpfbouw portfolio and the fund risk reports were revised in 2016. this revision resulted in more
transparent and compact reports on both aggregation levels. on top of that, the reporting on bpfbouw's portfolio
has been tailored to the risks that are identified in the pension fund’s risk charter. the format for business incident
reporting remained unchanged in 2016.



compliance
bouwinvest has a dedicated compliance function that identifies, assesses, advises on, monitors and reports on the
company’s compliance risks. for the planning, execution and reporting of all compliance activities,
compliance employs the bouwinvest compliance cycle. this cycle contains groups of activities that are vital for
the compliance function. the first group of activities focuses on the identification and interpretation of existing
and new legislation relevant to bouwinvest and its stakeholders and to determine its impact. bouwinvest
subsequently identifies and assigns scores to the relevant compliance risks and, on the basis of same, determines
priorities. next, the (amended) legislation and identified risks are translated into policies, which are then
implemented. for this, compliance facilitates the design of the processes, procedures and/or controls needed to
execute the updated and new policies. during implementation and on an ongoing basis, compliance devotes a
great deal of effort to creating awareness and providing advice on relevant compliance risks and how to deal with
them, ensuring a reduction in the number of incidents.


bouwinvest’s compliance function supervises and monitors the effectiveness of the controls and initiates specific
investigations when incidents or findings from regular monitoring activities necessitate this. compliance reports
on findings and on any areas of improvement in regular compliance reports, as well as reports on any
investigations initiated.


the bouwinvest compliance cycle

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                  35



key priorities
one of the key priorities of bouwinvest’s integrity and compliance function is creating and increasing
company-wide awareness of compliance risks, how employees can mitigate or control these risks and what is
expected from them on this front. increasing awareness was a major focus in 2016, and compliance ran a number
training courses and sessions on legislative changes and updated procedures. bouwinvest also has a mandatory
annual integrity workshop for all employees. the compliance risk environment is very dynamic and the legislation
governing asset managers and investment managers changes constantly. in 2016, the compliance officer worked
on the risk-based updating of a number of internal rules and regulations. these included the rules governing the
screening of business partners, as well as rules related the sanctions act, privacy legislation and ancillary
positions. in 2017, compliance will update the remaining internal compliance policies. bouwinvest monitors
relevant legislation and regulations closely and will continue to adapt and update its own internal compliance
regulations to new or amended legislation.


code of conduct
bouwinvest has a code of conduct that applies to all its employees and which includes rules that apply to the
board of directors and supervisory board with respect to conflicts of interest and investments. the code of
conduct deals with issues such as ethical behaviour, conflicts of interest, compliance with laws and (internal and
external) regulations, csr (corporate social responsibility), health and safety and requirements for our business
partners. bouwinvest also has a whistleblower policy with guidelines for the reporting and investigation of
unethical behaviour. all employees receive code of conduct training.


conflicts of interests policy
bouwinvest has a conflicts of interests policy. the purpose of this policy is to ensure that no material conflicts of
interests occur which are damaging for our clients, our funds, or our management organisation. the policy also
describes how bouwinvest should act with respect to the allocation of different investment opportunities over the
respective funds and clients. the policy is intended to supplement but not replace any applicable dutch laws
governing conflicts of interests.



in control statement
the board of directors has issued an ‘in control’ statement on the financial reporting risks and strategic and
operational risk management at bouwinvest. the board of directors is responsible for proper risk management
and internal control systems and for assessing their effectiveness. based on its assessment of the risk
management and internal control systems, the board of directors believes that these systems provide a
reasonable level of assurance that the financial reports contain no material errors. in general, the risk
management and internal control systems functioned properly in 2016 and there is no indication that these
systems will not function properly in 2017. no shortcomings that could have a material impact were identified in
these systems in 2016, nor up to the date this annual report was signed in 2017. furthermore, no deficiencies in the
internal control systems were identified that could have a material impact on operational and compliance risks,
nor on the financial reporting function and the functioning of the internal and external auditors.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                             36




financial statements
balance sheet as at 31 december
before appropriation of result, all amounts in € thousands               note               2016                2015
assets
intangible fixed assets                                                     1                517                 488


tangible fixed assets                                                       2
leasehold improvements                                                              587                 648
equipment                                                                           149                 244
                                                                                             736                 892


financial fixed assets
participations                                                              3    11,496              10,287
                                                                                           11,496              10,287
current assets
receivables                                                                           8                   9
receivables group companies                                                 4        81                    -
taxes                                                                       5       709               1,572
deferred tax assets                                                         6     2,027               2,996
other receivables and accrued assets                                                112                  12
cash and cash equivalents                                                   7    21,203              16,754
                                                                                           24,140              21,343


total assets                                                                               36,889              33,010


equity and liabilities
issued capital                                                                      225                 225
share premium                                                                    41,367              41,367
retained earnings                                                               (14,870)            (16,592)
net result for the year                                                           2,595               4,422
shareholders' equity                                                        8              29,317              29,422


provisions
deferred tax liabilities                                                    9       415                    -
                                                                                             415                    -
current liabilities
accounts payable                                                                     64                 160
taxes and social security premiums                                         10     1,006                 908
pension premiums                                                           11       486                 450
payables group companies                                                   12     3,229
other liabilities                                                                 1,198                 904
accrued liabilities                                                               1,174               1,166
                                                                                            7,157               3,588


total equity and liabilities                                                               36,889              33,010

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                             37




profit and loss account
all amounts in € thousands


                                                                         note
management fee                                                             13             30,722              30,503


operating costs
personnel costs                                                            14   19,276              17,959
depreciation costs                                                        1-2     526                 654
other operating costs                                                      13    8,481               6,835
total operating costs                                                                    (28,283)            (25,448)
operating result                                                                           2,439               5,055


result from participations                                                 16              1,589                 841


interest income and expenses                                               17                (49)                   -
result before taxes                                                                        3,979               5,896


corporate income tax                                                       18             (1,384)             (1,474)
result after taxes                                                                         2,595               4,422

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                      38




statement of cash flows
all amounts in € thousands


                                                                                     2016                2015
cash flow from operating activities
net result                                                                2,595               4,422
adjustments for:
depreciations                                                               526                 654
result from participations                                               (1,589)              (841)
interest income and expenses                                                 49                    -
movements in working capital and provisions:
movement in deferred tax assets                                             969               1,474
movement in receivables                                                     683                 722
movement in provisions                                                      415                    -
movement in current liabilities                                           3,569                   4
                                                                                    7,217               6,435
interest paid                                                               (49)                   -
cash flow from operating activities                                                 7,168               6,435


cash flow from investment activities
investments in tangible fixed assets                                      (152)                 (15)
investments in intangible fixed assets                                    (247)               (351)
dividends received                                                          380                 385
cash flow from investment activities                                                  (19)                 19


cash flow from financing activities
dividends paid                                                           (2,700)             (2,186)
cash flow from financing activities                                                (2,700)             (2,186)


net cash flow                                                                       4,449               4,268


cash and cash equivalents as at 1 january                                          16,754              12,486
increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                                    4,449               4,268
cash and cash equivalents as at 31 december                                        21,203              16,754

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                    39




notes to the financial statements
all amounts in € thousands unless otherwise stated




general
legal structure and principal activities
bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. (‘bouwinvest’ or ‘the company’), domiciled in amsterdam, is a
private company with limited liability incorporated on 9 october 2002. the chamber of commerce number of the
company is 34180506. bouwinvest’s objective is to provide real estate investment services to the stichting
bedrijfstakpensioenfonds voor de bouwnijverheid (bpfbouw), to third parties and to bpfbouw group companies
as defined in article 2:24b of the dutch civil code. all shares in the company are held by bpfbouw. the company
forms part of a group, headed by bpfbouw in amsterdam, the netherlands. the financial information of the
company has been recorded in the financial statements of bpfbouw. copies are available at the trade register of
the chamber of commerce as well as on the website bpfbouw.


bouwinvest is an investment manager specialised in real estate for institutional investors. bouwinvest manages
five dutch sector funds. bouwinvest also manages a separate mandate for international investments in europe,
north america and the asia pacific region. in the netherlands, the management services cover the entire real
estate chain, from acquisition and (re)development through asset management and disposal. for the international
investments, the management services consist mainly of fund selection and monitoring the performance of the
selected fund managers and funds.


basis of preparation
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with part 9, book 2 of the dutch civil code.


the legal entity is subject to the medium-sized company annual accounts regulations as defined in article 2:397 of
the dutch civil code.


accounting policies
valuation of assets and liabilities and determination of the result take place under the historical cost convention.
unless presented otherwise at the relevant principle for the specific balance sheet item, assets and liabilities are
valued according to the cost model.


income and expenses are accounted for on accrual basis. profit is only included when realised on the balance
sheet date. losses originating before the end of the financial year are taken into account if they have become
known before preparation of the financial statements.


the financial statements of the company are presented in thousands of euro (€), unless otherwise stated.


financial instruments
financial instruments include primary financial instruments, such as receivables and payables.


the notes to the specific items of the balance sheet disclose the fair value of the related instrument if this deviates
from the carrying amount. the carrying amounts of all financial instruments approximate the fair value. if the
financial instrument is not recorded in the balance sheet, the information on the fair value is disclosed in the
notes to the ‘contingent rights and obligations’.


for the principles of primary financial instruments, reference is made to the recognition per balance sheet item.


intangible fixed assets
equipment is stated at purchase price less straight-line depreciations, calculated while taking into consideration
the estimated economic life of the assets in question, and, if applicable, less impairments in value. acquisitions in
the year under review are subject to depreciation according to the proportion of the year they have been held.


depreciation is over a period of three to five years.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                  40



tangible fixed assets
equipment is stated at purchase price less straight-line depreciations, calculated while taking into consideration
the estimated economic life of the assets in question, and, if applicable, less impairments in value. acquisitions in
the year under review are subject to depreciation according to the proportion of the year they have been held.


depreciation of equipment is over a period of three to five years.


financial fixed assets
participations
when significant influence is exercised, associated companies are valued at net asset value. when no significant
influence is exercised, associated companies are valued at cost less impairment, if applicable. with the valuation
of associated companies any impairment in value is taken into account.


current assets
upon initial recognition the receivables are included at fair value and then valued at amortised cost. the fair value
and amortised cost equal the face value. any provision for doubtful accounts deemed necessary is deducted. these
provisions are determined by individual assessment of the receivables.


deferred tax assets
deferred tax assets are recognised if it is likely that the temporary differences will be settled in the near future.
these deferred tax assets are valued at nominal value and have a short-term nature.


cash
the cash is valued at face value. if cash equivalents are not freely disposable, then this has been taken into
account upon valuation.


provisions
provisions are recognised if a present obligation (legal or constructive) has arisen as a result of a past event (the
obligating event), payment is probable ('more likely than not'), and the amount can be estimated reliably. if the
effect is material, provisions are made that are equal to the present value of the expenditure that is expected to be
required for the settlement of the liability.


deferred tax liabilities
deferred tax liabilities are recognised for the difference between the fiscal and commercial valuation of the
participations. these deferred tax liabilities are valued at nominal value and have a long-term nature.


current liabilities
upon initial recognition, the liabilities recorded are stated at fair value and then valued at amortised cost.


management fee
the management fee is calculated based on the assets under management and project turnover.


taxes
corporate income tax is calculated at the applicable rate on the result for the financial year, taking into account
permanent differences between profit calculated according to the financial statements and profit calculated for
taxation purposes, and with which deferred tax assets (if applicable) are only valued insofar as their realisation is
likely.


notes to the cash flow statement, general principles
the cash flow statement is drawn up according to the indirect method. the funds in the cash flow statement
consist of cash and cash equivalents. cash equivalents can be considered to be highly liquid investments. interest
income and expenses are recognised in the cash flow from ordinary operations.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                                          41




notes to the balance sheet
all amounts in € thousands




1 intangible fixed assets
                                                                                                                               2016          2015
book value as at 1 january                                                                                                      488              -
reclassified from tangible fixed assets                                                                                            -          395
investments                                                                                                                     247           351
depreciations                                                                                                                  (218)         (258)
book value as at 31 december                                                                                                    517           488


purchase value                                                                                                                 7,776        7,529
cumulative depreciations                                                                                                     (7,259)       (7,041)
book value as at 31 december                                                                                                    517           488


in 2015, software and licences has been reclassified from the tangible assets to intangible assets.


2 tangible fixed assets
                                                                                           leasehold
                                                                                       improvements         equipment     total 2016    total 2015
book value as at 1 january                                                                            648         244           892         1,668
reclassified to intangible fixed assets                                                                 -            -             -         (395)
investments                                                                                            64          88           152            15
depreciations                                                                                    (125)           (183)         (308)         (396)
book value as at 31 december                                                                          587         149           736           892


purchase value                                                                                   5,642          1,213          6,855        6,703
cumulative depreciations                                                                        (5,055)        (1,064)       (6,119)       (5,811)
book value as at 31 december                                                                          587         149           736           892


in 2015, software and licences has been reclassified from the tangible assets to intangible assets.


3 participations
the movement in the participations recognised in the financial fixed assets that do not belong to the group are as
follows:


                                                                            book value       deposit/                                  book value
                                                                             31-12-2015    repayment         dividend    result 2016    31-12-2016
bouwinvest dutch institutional residential fund n.v. (0.2%)                       6,547                 -        (226)         1,315        7,636
bouwinvest dutch institutional retail fund n.v. (0.3%)                            1,999                 -         (89)          170         2,080
bouwinvest dutch institutional office fund n.v. (0.3%)                            1,741                 -         (65)          104         1,780
total                                                                            10,287                 -        (380)         1,589       11,496


4 receivables group companies
                                                                                                                               2016          2015
bouwinvest retail development b.v.                                                                                                3              -
bouwinvest development b.v.                                                                                                      78              -
total                                                                                                                            81              -

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                                          42



5 taxes
                                                                                                                              2016           2015
value added tax                                                                                                                536          1,456
dividend tax                                                                                                                   173            116
total                                                                                                                          709          1,572


6 deferred tax asset
                                                                                                                              2016           2015
deferred tax assets                                                                                                           2,027         2,996
total                                                                                                                        2,027          2,996


the compensable loss at year-end 2016 amounted to € 8.1 million (2015: € 11.9 million). taking into account the
compensable loss, the deferred tax asset has been set at 2.0 million. this deferred tax asset can be taken in the
following two years up to and including 2018.


7 cash and cash equivalents
                                                                                                                              2016           2015
bank balances                                                                                                               21,203         16,754
total                                                                                                                       21,203         16,754


the cash and cash equivalents are freely available to the company.


8 shareholders' equity
before appropriation of result


                                                                                 issued         share       retained net result for
                                                                                 capital     premium        earnings      the year    total equity
balance at 1 january 2016                                                           225         41,367        (16,592)       4,422         29,422
net result for the year                                                                -              -                 -     2,595         2,595
appropriation of result                                                                -              -            4,422    (4,422)              -
dividend paid                                                                          -              -           (2,700)         -        (2,700)
balance at 31 december 2016                                                         225         41,367        (14,870)       2,595         29,317


before appropriation of result


                                                                                 issued         share       retained net result for
                                                                                 capital     premium        earnings      the year    total equity
balance at 1 january 2015                                                           225         41,367        (17,579)       3,173         27,186
net result for the year                                                                -              -                 -     4,422          4,422
appropriation of result                                                                -              -            3,173    (3,173)              -
dividend paid                                                                          -              -           (2,186)         -        (2,186)
balance at 31 december 2015                                                         225         41,367        (16,592)       4,422         29,422


appropriation of profit 2015
the general meeting of shareholders held on 18 april 2016 adopted and approved the 2015 financial statements.
a dividend of € 2,700,000 has been paid. the profit for 2015 of € 1,721,740 was added to the retained earnings.


proposal for appropriation of profit 2016
the management proposes that the general meeting of shareholders approve the proposal to incorporate
€ 2,595,000 of the profit to the retained earnings.


this proposal has not been incorporated in the financial statements.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                               43



9 deferred tax liabilities
                                                                                                                       2016       2015
deferred tax liabilities                                                                                                 415          -
total                                                                                                                    415          -


the difference between the fiscal and commercial valuation of the participations is € 1.7 million for which
a deferred tax liability of € 0.4 million is recognised. the deferred tax liability has a long-term nature.


10 taxes and social security premiums
                                                                                                                       2016      2015
payroll taxes                                                                                                          1,006       908
total                                                                                                                  1,006       908


11 pension premiums
the movements in the short-term debt with regard to pension premiums were as follows:


                                                                                                                       2016      2015
balance as at 1 january                                                                                                  450       589
payment relating to previous years                                                                                     (464)     (589)
                                                                                                                        (14)          -
premiums due for the financial year                                                                                    1,928     1,804
payments relating to the financial year                                                                               (1,428)   (1,354)
total                                                                                                                    486       450


12 payable to group companies
                                                                                                                       2016       2015
payable bpfbouw                                                                                                        3,229          -
total                                                                                                                  3,229          -


this is a fee incentive to be paid to bpfbouw over the year 2016.


contingent rights and liabilities
contingent rights
bouwinvest has management agreements with the funds for an indefinite period with a two-year notice period, as
well as a mandate with bpfbouw regarding the international and heritage portfolios for an indefinite period with
a five year notice period. the management fee is calculated on the basis of net asset value, amounting to
approximately € 33 million for the year 2017.


contingent liabilities
rental and lease agreement-related contracts entered into:


                                                                                                                       2016      2015
first year                                                                                                             1,641     1,728
second to fifth year                                                                                                   4,208     5,412
more than five years                                                                                                        -         -
total                                                                                                                  5,849     7,140


the management fee which bouwinvest charges to the residential, office and retail fund are exempt from dutch
vat. this is confirmed in 2016 by the dutch revenue in a ruling on an objection filed by bouwinvest. this objection
relates to the second and third quarter of 2013 but has also impact on the fourth quarter of 2013 and beyond.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                                      44




notes to the profit and loss account
all amounts in € thousands unless otherwise stated




13 management fee
bouwinvest received a management fee of in total € 30.7 million (2015: € 30.5 million), of which € 29.2 million (2015:
€ 29.1 million) is based on the assets under management and € 1.5 million (2015: 1.4 million) is based on other
mandates and project development activities.


bouwinvest is an investment manager specialised in real estate for institutional investors. the company also
manages a separate mandate for international investments and project development activities.


bouwinvest delivers real estate services to the following funds and entities (group companies as defined in article
2:24b of the dutch civil code). the total assets under management of the company at year-end is stated below.


                                                                                                                             2016        2015
bouwinvest dutch institutional residential fund n.v.                                                                     3,995,034   3,151,198
bouwinvest dutch institutional retail fund n.v.                                                                           824,201     738,335
bouwinvest dutch institutional office fund n.v.                                                                           525,988     554,723
bouwinvest dutch institutional hotel fund n.v.                                                                            189,232     147,923
bouwinvest dutch institutional healthcare fund n.v.                                                                        53,733      34,066
bouwinvest development b.v.                                                                                               108,285     111,939
bpfbouw (mandates international investments & heritage)                                                                  2,760,396   2,757,141
total                                                                                                                    8,456,869   7,495,325


the management fee in 2016 was € 30.7 million (2015: € 30.5 million). for the funds this fee is calculated as 0.5% of
the ‘net asset value’; for the international investments of bpfbouw it is calculated as 0.3% of the ‘net asset value’.


the management fee for the project development activities amounted to € 1.5 million (2015: € 1.4 million).


14 personnel costs
                                                                                                                             2016        2015
wages and salaries                                                                                                         12,342      11,669
social security charges                                                                                                      1,283       1,160
pension fund charges                                                                                                         1,940       1,745
temporary staff                                                                                                              1,332       1135
other personnel costs                                                                                                        2,379       2,250
total                                                                                                                      19,276      17,959


the pension fund agreements chargeable to the financial year are composed as follows:


                                                                                                                                         2016
pension fund agreements chargeable to the financial year                                                                                 2,232
deductions                                                                                                                               (292)
settlement pensions 2014                                                                                                                     -
total                                                                                                                                   1,940


pursuant to the dutch pension system this plan is financed by contributions to an industry pension fund.
participation in the industry pension fund has been made obligatory in the collective labour agreement applicable
to bouwinvest.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                              45



the related accrued entitlements are always fully financed in the related calendar year through – at least –
cost-effective contribution payments. the pension plan is a career average plan including – for both active and
inactive participants (sleepers and retired persons) – conditional granting of supplements. the granting of
supplements depends on the investment return. the annual accrual of the pension entitlements amounts to 22.0%
of the pensionable salary (2015: 22.7%) with a maximum of € 101,519. the annual employee-paid contribution is at
least 1.75% and capped at 4.2% of the pensionable salary. based on the funding ratio and expected returns the
board of the industry pension fund sets the contribution every year.


in addition to these basic rules which are mandatory for every employee, there is also a net pension scheme (netto
pensioen regeling) offered to employees with a total fixed income exceeding the permissible fiscal limit of
€ 101,519. these employees receive a contribution by the employer amounting to the maximum deposit in a net
pension scheme; particpation in the net pension scheme is voluntary.


the related industry pension fund has stated that the funding ratio was 107.4% in 2016 (2015: 107.1%). based on the
administrative regulations the group has no obligation to make additional contributions in the event of a deficit
other than through higher future contributions.


employees
the number of employees at year-end 2016 amounted to 136.6 fte (2015: 131.1 fte). the average number of
employees in 2016 was 134.0 fte (2015: 129.6 fte).


remuneration
the investment manager, bouwinvest, paid in 2016 a remuneration (including social security charges and pension
premiums) of in total € 15.6 million to 136.6 fte (2015: € 14.6 million to 129.6 fte), of which 5.5% variable
remuneration, and the remainder was fixed remuneration.


the total remuneration includes an amount of € 1.2 million (2015: € 1.1 million) for the board of directors. the board
of directors are the only staff members whose actions has an important influence on the risk profile of the
residential fund, the office fund, the retail fund and the other funds and separate mandates of the investment
manager. the variable remuneration is based on a discretionary basis by the board of directors of bouwinvest and
is partly dependent of the performance of the company. the variable remuneration of the board of directors is
determined by the supervisory board and is capped at 20% of the annual salary.


the remuneration for the members of the supervisory board in 2016 amounted to a total of € 115,000
(2015: € 113,000).


bouwinvest manages five dutch real estate sector funds. the residential fund, the retail fund and the office fund
are open for institutional clients. bouwinvest manages the hotel fund and the healthcare fund, together with its
international real estate investments, exclusively for bpfbouw. the international portfolio includes both listed
and non-listed real estate funds in europe, north america and the asia-pacific region. the remuneration cannot be
explicitly allocated per entity and is therefore not available.


15 other operating costs
                                                                                                                         2016    2015
office expenses                                                                                                          2,127   2,098
automation expenses                                                                                                      2,840   2,593
communicactions expenses                                                                                                  666     542
consultancy costs                                                                                                         428     441
research and investor relations costs                                                                                     354     403
non-deductible vat                                                                                                       1,771    753
other expenses                                                                                                            295       5
total                                                                                                                    8,481   6,835

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                      46



16 result from participations
                                                                               2015      2015
result from participations                                                    1,589       841
result from participations                                                    1,589       841


17 interest income and expenses
                                                                               2016      2015
interest expenses                                                               (49)         -
interest income and expenses                                                    (49)         -


18 corporate income tax
                                                                               2016      2015
result before taxes                                                           3,979     5,896


corporate income tax                                                           (985)   (1,474)
impairment deferred tax assets                                                 (399)         -
corporate income tax previous years                                                -         -
total                                                                        (1,384)   (1,474)


subsequent events
bouwinvest has no significant subsequent events that need to be disclosed.


signing of the financial statements
amsterdam, 20 march 2017


the board of directors
dick van hal, chairman of the board of directors and statutory director
arno van geet, managing director finance
allard van spaandonk, managing director dutch investments
stephen tross, managing director international investments


the supervisory board
kees beuving, chairman of the supervisory board
jan van der vlist
roel wijmenga
carolien gehrels

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                  47




other information
stipulations in the articles of association
pertaining to the appropriation of profit
profit is appropriated in accordance with article 4 of the articles of association, which stipulates that the general
meeting of shareholders decides which proportion of the profit is added to the reserves. the remaining sum is at
the disposal of the general meeting of shareholders.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                 48




independent auditor’s report
to the shareholder and the supervisory board of bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v.


report on the financial statements 2016 included in the annual report
our opinion
we have audited the financial statements 2016 of bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v., based in
amsterdam.


in our opinion the financial statements included in this annual report give a true and fair view of the financial
position of bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. as at 31 december 2016, and of its result for 2016
in accordance with part 9 of book 2 of the dutch civil code.


the financial statements comprise:
1. the balance sheet as at 31 december 2016.
2. the profit and loss account for 2016.
3. the notes comprising a summary of the accounting policies and other explanatory information.


basis for our opinion
we conducted our audit in accordance with dutch law, including the dutch standards on auditing. our
responsibilities under those standards are further described in the “our responsibilities for the audit of the
financial statements” section of our report.


we are independent of bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. in accordance with the verordening
inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten (vio) and other relevant independence
regulations in the netherlands. furthermore we have complied with the verordening gedrags- en beroepsregels
accountants (vgba).


we believe the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.


report on the other information included in the annual report
in addition to the financial statements and our auditor’s report, the annual report contains other information that
consists of:
•      report of the board of directors
•      other information
•      additional other information.


based on the following procedures performed, we conclude that the other information:
•     is consistent with the financial statements and does not contain material misstatements.
•     contains the information as required by part 9 of book 2 of the dutch civil code. by performing these
      procedures, we comply with the requirements of part 9 of book 2 of the dutch civil code and the dutch
      standard 720. the scope of the procedures performed is substantially less than the scope of those
      performed in our audit of the financial statements.


we have read the other information. based on our knowledge and understanding obtained through our audit of
the financial statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information contains material
misstatements.


by performing these procedures, we comply with the requirements of part 9 of book 2 of the dutch civil code and
the dutch standard 720. the scope of the procedures performed is substantially less than the scope of those
performed in our audit of the financial statements.


management is responsible for the preparation of other information, including the report of the board of
directors in accordance with part 9 of book 2 of the dutch civil code, and the other information as required by part
9 of book 2 of the dutch civil code.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                 49



description of responsibilities for the financial statements
responsibilities of management and the supervisory board for the financial statements
management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance
with part 9 of book 2 of the dutch civil code. furthermore, management is responsible for such internal control as
management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.


as part of the preparation of the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the company’s
ability to continue as a going concern. based on the financial reporting framework mentioned, management
should prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either
intends to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.


management should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability
to continue as a going concern in the financial statements.


the supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the company’s financial reporting process.


our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
our objective is to plan and perform the audit assignment in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and
appropriate audit evidence for our opinion.


our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not have
detected all material errors and fraud.


misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial
statements. the materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the
effect of identified misstatements on our opinion.


we have exercised professional judgment and have maintained professional skepticism throughout the audit, in
accordance with dutch standards on auditing, ethical requirements and independence requirements. our audit
included e.g.:
•     identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to
      fraud or error, designing and performing audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtaining audit
      evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. the risk of not detecting a
      material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve
      collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
•     obtaining an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures
      that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
      effectiveness of the company’s internal control.
•     evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
      estimates and related disclosures made by management.
•     concluding on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting, and
      based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions
      that may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. if we conclude that
      a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related
      disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. our
      conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. however,
      future events or conditions may cause the company to cease to continue as a going concern.
•     evaluating the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the
      disclosures.
•     evaluating whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner
      that achieves fair presentation.


we communicate with the supervisory board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant findings in internal control that we identify during
our audit.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                         50



we provide the supervisory board with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably
be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.


amsterdam, 20 march 2017


deloitte accountants b.v.


signed on the original: j. holland

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                         51




csr targets
﻿
csr targets 2014-2016


                                                                                          when        status 2016
contributing to employee satisfaction
retention management: set up training and development for key personnel,
potentials and high performers                                                             2016         achieved
vitality: maintain absenteeism at a level below 2.1%                                   2014-2016        achieved
career advancement opportunities: stimulate internal mobility (mobility ratio of
10%)                                                                                   2014-2016   not achieved *
diversity: promote the influx of young talent by providing at least eight places for
interns                                                                                2014-2016        achieved


effective collaboration with stakeholders and effective corporate governance as a
guiding principle for all our actions
structural cooperation with external property managers to enhance environmental
performance                                                                                2014     not achieved
develop and implement a sustainable purchasing policy                                  2015-2016        partially
develop engagement program with tenants to raise awareness on sustainability
issues                                                                                     2014         achieved


minimising environmental impact
expand environmental management system (ems), including smart meters                       2014         achieved
update sustainability assessment of new investments and conduct assessments in
existing portfolio                                                                         2014         achieved
improve energy efficiency by 10% compared to 2012                                          2015       partially**
carbon-neutral operations by 2020 (direct emissions)                                       2020          on track


making a positive contribution to society
increase participation rate of esg assessment and engage with fund managers to
improve performance                                                                        2014         achieved
fully implement integrated reporting framework                                         2015-2016    not achieved
continue to develop social activities and sponsorship policy                               2014         achieved


* internal flow has reached 10%
** achieved for two of the three funds

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                                             52




csr performance indicators
﻿
social data
bouwinvest                                                          2016         2015                                             2015           2013
human resources                                                                               employee survey
number of employees in fte (gri: la1)                               136.6        131.1        satisfaction                         8.0            7.8
fixed-term contract (%) (gri: la1)                                       7%           5%      engagement                           7.7            7.6
permanent contract (%) (gri: la1)                                    93%         95%          enthusiasm                           7.6            7.0
sickness ratio (%) (gri: la7)                                       2.2%         1.9%                  employee age groups (gri: la13) 2015
employee turnover (%) (gri: la2)                                    9.9%         6.1%              average            %          male          female
equality & diversity                                                                                    <30            8           100              0
women (%) (gri: la13)                                                34%         34%                  30-40           33            72             28
women in senior management (%) (gri: la13)                           24%         18%                  40-50           35            64             36
training and development                                                                              50-60           18            56             44
number of internships                                                     7            4                >60            6            55             45


environmental data
                                                                   residential fund                  office fund                 retail fund
                                                                         2016         2015            2016          2015          2016           2015
tenant engagement
number of leases                                                     15,523       14,597                717          742           474            461
new tenants                                                              3,208        2,533             164          136            87             69
green leases                                                              n/a          n/a                   2         2            23             10
duo labels (gri-cress: cre8)                                              n/a          n/a                   5         5           454            352
response rate (gri: pr5)                                                 1,994        1,902            36%          29%             49% *
satisfaction scores (gri: pr5)                                             6.9          7.3             7.3          6.9            5,8 *


* this is a bi-annual survey. the latest survey was conducted in 2014.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                                           53



                                            absolute                                       like for like comparison
                                                          residential fund        office fund               retail fund              total
inrev sustainability
performance measures           units             2016         2016        2015     2016           2015       2016         2015     2016       2015
energy consumption
total electricity
consumption (gri: en4)         mwh              28,214       7,253        7,964   16,978        17,385        972          944    25,203     26,293
total gas consumption (gri:
en3)                        mwh                 13,072       5,588        5,200    4,298         5,176       2,455        2,668   12,341     13,044
total district heating and
cooling (gri: en4)             mwh              12,881            -           -   12,033        12,416           -            -   12,033     12,416
total energy consumption
from all sources (gri: en4)    mwh              54,167      12,841       13,164   33,309        34,977       3,427        3,612   49,577     51,753


                                                 2016         2016        2015     2016           2015       2016         2015     2016       2015
carbon emissions (ghg)
total direct ghg emissions tonnes
(gri: en15) scope 1        co2e                  2,442       1,044         971      803            967        459          498     2,306      2,436
total indirect ghg
emissions (gri: en16) scope tonnes
2                           co2e                11,229       2,887        3,170    6,757         6,919        387          376    10,031     10,465
total ghg emissions (gri:      tonnes
en16) scope 1 and 2            co2e             13,671       3,931        4,141    7,560         7,886        846          874    12,337     12,901
total ghg emissions after      tonnes
compensation                   co2e              2,442       1,044         971      803            967        459          498     2,306      2,436


                                                 2016         2016        2015     2016           2015       2016         2015     2016       2015
water consumption
total water consumption
(gri:en8)                      m³               71,421         n/a         n/a    70,291        69,171        116           83    70,407     69,254


                                                 2016         2016        2015     2016           2015       2016         2015     2016       2015
waste management
total waste collected (gri:
en22)                          tonnes              599         n/a         n/a      508            401          91         101      599        502
recycling rate                                      31         n/a         n/a       35             98          12           8       31         74


                                                              2016        2015     2016           2015       2016         2015
inrev sustainability
intensity measures
building energy intensity      kwh/m²/y
(gri-cress: cre1)              ear                              8.7         8.9    194.3         204.0        34.3         36.2
greenhouse gas intensity       kg
from building energy           co2e/m²/
(gri-cress: cre3)              year                             2.7         2.8     44.1            46         8.5          8.8
building water intensity       m³/m²/yea
(gri-cress: cre2)              r                               n/a         n/a     0.455         0.448       0.010        0.007

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016                                                                         54



                                                                   residential fund                office fund                retail fund
                                                                          2016        2015          2016           2015        2016          2015
certificates
epc labels coverage (gri-cress: cre8)                               100.0%        100.0%         100.0%          100.0%       86.8%         93.4%
green certificates (a,b or c label)                                      93.3%     92.6%          73.0%          66.7%        85.2%         88.0%
average energy index                                                      1.30        1.32          1.12           1.25        0.91          0.98
green building certificates (breeam) (gri-cress: cre8)                       3           -             6                  -       4             4
global real estate sustainability benchmark (gresb)
overall score (gri-cress: cre8)                                             66         66             78             76          74            69


reporting of performance indicators
bouwinvest reports environmental data of those assets where there is management control possible (operational
control approach). data is provided for those assets where we have authority to introduce and implement
operating policies and are responsible for purchasing energy and water and handling waste. our management
control differs greatly by asset type (e.g. residential and office); these differences affect the level of influence we
have over the sustainability performance of our assets.


like for like data and changes represents assets which have been fully owned and operational for the full 24 month
period in our investment portfolio. it provides insight in the performance of an indicator over time at a constant
portfolio scope. the reduction in ghg emissions can be explained by the compensation of carbon emissions
through purchase of carbon certificates. this follows the commitment of bouwinvest to reduce the impact its
operations has on climate change.


energy, emission and water intensities are reported using “shared services” as the numerator and lettable floor
area (lfa) as the denominator. “shared services” refer to landlord-obtained consumption for common parts and
any services provided to tenant areas that have not been sub-metered.

bouwinvest real estate investment management b.v. | annual report 2016   55




contact information
﻿
bouwinvest
la guardiaweg 4
1043 dg, amsterdam
the netherlands


external auditor
deloitte accountants b.v.
gustav mahlerlaan 2970
1081 la amsterdam
the netherlands

