corporate social responsibilities
annual report 2013

                       prepared by
                       human resources department
                       january 2014

executive summary

corporate social responsibilities (csr)




vision

citic securities international (csi) aims to create shared values to embrace
responsibility for its actions and encourages a positive impact through csr activities,
showing the importance of giving back to the society.


mission

as a caring employer, citic securities international (csi) is committed to being a good
corporate citizen and is geared to building strategic partnerships with various non-profit
organizations to create a more cohesive society through:

   caring for our employees
   caring for our environment
   caring for our community




                                          page 2

executive summary




key achievements:
    as nominated by charitable organizations, csi has been awarded the caring
    company logo by the hong kong council of social service for the 7th
    consecutive year
    organized 23 charitable events through csi ambassadors program in 2013
    monetary and material donations by the company, employees & account
    executives to various charities. total cash donation was hk$630,393 in 2013.
    136 volunteers contributed over 460 service hours
    external recognitions:
     ‘distinguished family friendly employer’ & ‘award for innovation’ received
      from family council
     ‘manpower developer award ’ received from the employee retraining board
     ‘gold award’ (hk smoke-free leading company awards) received from the
      hk council on smoking and health (cosh)
     ‘hong kong corporate smoke-free logo ‘ received from lok sin tong
    organized 17 well being programs to promote work-life balance in our
    workplace


                                       page 3

caring for our employees
as a caring employer, the company is committed to not only looking after the well-
being of our employees but also their loved ones. the company organizes various
csr and well-being programs during the year and would encourage and welcome
the participation of family members and friends to many of them.

enhancement of employee benefits

                                     the company reviews our policies on a
                                     regular basis to ensure the welfare of our
                                     employees is being looked after as well as to
                                     maintain market competitiveness. in 2013,
                                     the following benefits were being introduced:

                                        birthday leave
                                        extended no pay maternity leave
                                        breast feeding room for nursing
                                        mothers




well-being programs

                                   in promoting wellness in our workplace, the
                                   company organized a series of well-being
                                   programs throughout 2013. the programs
                                   include:

                                        friday fever (quarterly)
                                        massage service (quarterly)
                                        easter eggs to employee’s children
                                        balloon twisting
                                        world no tobacco day
                                        wine tasting
                                        chanel make-up class
                                        ‘work-life balance week’
                                        mahjong competition
                                        ‘stress management’ workshop
                                        employees christmas party




                                      page 4

caring for our employees
well-being programs (cont’d)




                               page 5

caring for our employees
learning and development

                                                   in 2013, the company organized a
                                                   total of 31 training programs.

                                                   there was a total of 2,332 training
                                                   hours (including 1,580 hours being the
                                                   ‘continuous professional training’
                                                   (cpt) with an average of 6.7 training
                                                   hours for each employee

   2 associate directors and above
   employees were sent to qingdao
   for a 2 week orientation and
   participated    in    ‘development
   training’, ‘interaction with the
   leadership team’ & ‘professional
   knowledge training’

   6 frontline employees went to
   beijing for a one to five months
   secondment to better understand
   the business in prc and also to
   establish       closer     working
   relationships for the enhancement
   of collaboration

   to cater for special training needs,
   the company has also arranged
   for various types of training
   programs such as ‘think on your
   feet’,    ‘pickling    supervisors’,
   ‘stress management workshop’

   the company launched the
   ‘future leaders’ program’ to
   identify potential talents to groom
   them for future development
   opportunities




                                          page 6

caring for our community
 charity sale of christmas party’s dvd

                                            csi hosted a christmas party for
                                            employees in jw marriot on 7th of
                                            december 2013 with many joyful and fun
                                            moments captured in dvd. csi
                                            ambassadors will organize a charity
                                            sale of christmas party’s dvd in
                                            january 2014. all proceeds raised will
                                            be placed into the csi ambassador
                                            charity fund for the sponsorship of
                                            future charity programs.



red packet campaign 2013

                                           “charity photo shooting with god of
                                           fortune” has been organized for the 4th
                                           consecutive year to care for the ones in
                                           need. once again, mr. federico bazzoni
                                           (managing director, corporate finance
                                           (europe & mena)) dressed as the “god
                                           of fortune” wishing us colleagues’ good
                                           luck and a prosperous new year. a total
                                           of 115 colleagues donated their red
                                           packets (total hk$3,640) to take photos
                                           with the “god of fortune”. the proceeds
                                           raised       were donated to “children’s
                                           heart foundation” which enables children
                                           diagnosed with heart disease to live a
                                           normal life.




                                         page 7

 caring for our community
 chinese new year gifts transfer program 2013




to continue on giving, csi ambassadors was involved with the “chinese new year gifts
donation program 2013” in collaboration with the people’s food bank of st. james’
settlement allowing the underprivileged to share the joy of chinese new year. this year,
with generous donations from csi employees, we were able to raise and transfer 18 boxes
of new year snacks to the families who are living below the poverty level in hong kong and
cannot afford to buy to festive food


 chinese new year visit to elderly home




during chinese new year on 23 february 2013, csi ambassadors paid a visit hong
kong society for the aged or st. christopher’s home, sending festive spirits, love and
care to 40 elderly. most of them suffer from illness and is over the age of sixty years
old.

csi ambassadors started the celebration by singing festive chinese new year songs,
playing games and giving out gifts which were sponsored by citic securities
international and employees (total funds raised was hk$4,000). csi ambassadors
created an enjoyable afternoon bringing a lot of joy to the elderly while we wished him
a healthy and happy year of the snake.

                                          page 8

caring for our community
st. james’ settlement valentine’s rose charity sale 2013
c
                          to extend our love and care to community, csi
                          participated in “valentine’s rose charity sale 2013”
                          organized by st. james settlement from 2 to 14
                          february 2013. a total of 27 specially designed roses
                          were ordered (total amount raised was hk$1,904) to
                          support the charity’s project development. the roses
                          were used by csi ambassadors to show:
                                      appreciation to their colleagues
                                      care to friends
                                      love towards their families and friends
                                      kindness and care to the community




friends of caritas

                            the company donated hk$10,000 for the charity walk on
                            9 march 2013.




the community chest skip lunch day 2013


                           in the second year in a row, csi’s colleagues participated
                           in a skip lunch day organized by the community chest
                           of hong kong on the 21 march 2013.

                           forty-eight csi employees supported this even by skipping
                           their regular lunches and total sum of hk$3,650 was
                           raised. all donations collected by csi employees were
                           allocated to support the “services for street sleepers,
                           residence in cage homes and cubicles”




                                      page 9

 caring for our community
hong chi charity cookie sales




hong chi association is founded in 1965. it is a very well-established non-profit
organization dedicated solely to serving around 7,000 people of all ages and all grades
of intellectual disabilities and their families in hong kong.

15 employees donated hk$2,280 to support hong chi’s work in assisting people with
intellectual disabilities to integrate into the society.


ad hoc project – sichuan earthquake relief donation




on 20 april 2013 at 8am, a 7.0 magnitude earthquake struck lushan county in sichuan,
leaving widespread damage across the region, triggering dangerous landslides and
disrupted power and communication channels. in the village of longman was hit
particularly hard as authorities suggested that all buildings there have been destroyed in
the devastating natural disaster. due to poor weather conditions and the inaccessibility
after roads were blocked, it was suggested that ten thousands were hurt and up to few
hundred people have been reported dead.

in the light of such a sudden catastrophe, csi employees raised more than forty thousand
hong kong dollars and together with csi, the total donation was hk$500,000 to oxfam
hong kong, who will concentrate on the rehabilitation efforts of hygiene, providing clean
drinking water and temporary shelters, clean-up and waste management in sichuan.
more importantly, the funds raised and donated were moved towards a goal to assist total
of 30,000 survivors and 7,500 households in the lushan, tianquan and baoxing county.




                                          page 10

 caring for our community
medecins sans frontieres day campaign 2013




every year, medecins sans frontieres send more than 2,000 international field workers
to different parts of the world to provide medical assistance to populations in danger. to
continue and advance our volunteering spirit, csi was involved with the msf day
campaign on 7 july 2013 and the grand total of hk$2,100.


elderly home visit – summer assistants




twenty summer assistants and employee represented the company as csi
ambassadors and paid a visit to the hong kong society of the aged (sage) bradbury
home for the elderly in aberdeen on 20 july 2013 (saturday). the summer assistants
coordinated the project and designed games and spent a joyous afternoon with over 40
elderly people participating in performances e.g. saxophone and interacting games.

the elderly were surrounded by sounds of music, fun and games and received gifts
sponsored by the company. this fun-filled activity not only brought joy and warmth to the
elderly home, but also meaningful contribution to the society.




                                          page 11

caring for our community
parents’ resources centre visit – summer assistants

                                    on 27 july 2013 (saturday), csi summer
                                    assistants visited the spastics association of hong
                                    kong wang tau hom pre-school centre. pre-
                                    school services aim to meet the individual learning
                                    needs and development of children aged up to 10
                                    years old with special needs, including autism,
                                    specific learning difficulties, developmental delay,
                                    physical handicap etc., by providing them with
                                    training and assistance.

                                    throughout the afternoon, 13 children attended a
                                    fun summer day where they created fun summer
                                    snacks and played interactive games with the help
                                    from our summer assistants. it was a great
                                    afternoon and our summer assistants played a
                                    crucial role by interacting with children, helping them
                                    move closer to a holistic experience, and more
                                    importantly forming a solid foundation for the
                                    children to continue to grow and integrate into the
                                    society.



orbis mid-autumn festival charity sale




this charity sale could help 39 million people who suffer from blindness with ultimate goal
of being the prevention and treatment of blindness worldwide. the csi ambassadors were
grateful that 11 employees & account executives supported this meaningful charity sale
and a total of hk$4,920 was raised.




                                         page 12

 caring for our community
elderly home visit – mid-autumn festival




the hong kong society of the aged (sage) bradbury home for the elderly hosts elderly
mostly over the age of sixty whom suffer from illness or disability. the csi ambassadors
sent warmth and love during a mid-autumn festival visit to the elderly home in po fu lam
on 14 september 2013 (saturday).

a total of 12 employees supported the event. 3 employees donated hk$600 to sponsor the
event. 9 employees + family members & friend visited around 30 elderly people who were
surrounded by sounds of music, fun and games and received gifts by the company,
making the event fun. joy and happiness filled every corner of the elderly home and it was
a great contribution to the society.


moon cake transfer

                                     on 13 september 2013, csi ambassadors
                                     participated in the “moon cake transfer program”
                                     hosted by people’s food bank of st. james’
                                     settlement for the 7th consecutive year.

                                     18 boxes moon cakes were donated by our
                                     employees and they were sent to st. james’
                                     settlement to transfer out festive greetings to
                                     underprivileged families living under the poverty line
                                     in hong kong.




                                         page 13

caring for our community
dress causal day 2013

                                  as a yearly event, csi supported the community
                                  chest on 27 september 2013 (friday) by raising
                                  funds of hk$2,400 donated by 13 employees. the
                                  funds raised would be wholly allocated to benefit the
                                  157 member social welfare agencies supported by
                                  the chest.



sponsorship to ‘very hong kong’


                               the company has donated hk$30,000 to support ‘very
                               hong kong’, which is a new social platform for the city’s
                               community to celebrate what is unique in hong kong.

                               ‘very hong kong’ is a place for ideas and a festival of
                               events to rediscover the city’s creative spirit and how
                               they can use urban spaces and streets as public living
                               space.




children’s heart foundation - heart-to-heart charity walk

                                   to support the children’s heart foundation, the
                                   company donated hk$10,000 and formed a
                                   corporate team for the charity walk at the peak on
                                   27 october 2013. yin zong was the leader with
                                   great support by the management committee
                                   members. a total of 87 employees + family & friends
                                   joined the walk.    this event was also the 18th
                                   anniversary celebration of citic securities and
                                   lunch was provided to all participants after the walk.




                                       page 14

caring for our community
the community chest love teeth day 2013

                                   on 5 december 2013, the community chest and
                                   hong kong dental association and oral health
                                   education unit of department of health jointly
                                   organized the ‘love teeth day”.

                                   the program was used to raise awareness to dental
                                   care and oral health and at the same time, raise funds
                                   for the people in need. full amount of donations (total
                                   hk$6,474) without deductions is placed towards “oral
                                   health services for the needy” provided by the
                                   community chest’s members social welfare agencies.




visit to the harmony house children’s centre for christmas




on 14 december 2013, 17 csi ambassadors together with their family and friends visited a
centre of the harmony house in kwun tong and organized a christmas party to celebrate
the festive season with 18 children from the centre. during the visit, csi ambassadors
played games with the children and dressed up as santa claus to give out christmas gifts
donated by our generous employees (total donation received was hk$1,200). the event
was filled with joy and smiling faces.




                                        page 15

caring for our community
care for your heart




the company donated hk$3,000 for the charity walk on 8 december 2013.


purchase of goods and services from the charitable/non-profit making organizations

                        the employees retraining board (erb) is an independent
                        statutory body established in 1992. the erb co-ordinates,
                        funds and monitors training courses and services that are
                        market driven and employment-oriented so as to meet the
                        changing needs of the employment market.

                        erb’s vision
                        the erb will continue its all-out efforts to better equip the labor
                        force with sound foundation for future career development.
                        the smart living scheme is administered by erb. it is the
                        largest and most experienced platform for job-matching and
                        referral services for employers as well as the graduate trainees
                        of related courses offered by the erb. our company uses their
                        smart helpers for the massage service on a regular basis.


sunshine action food program




csi has participated in the csr program sponsored by clsa chairman’s trust foundation.
employees from csi donated hk$2,900 and canned food and also sent representatives to
help pack the food in a local school in cheung kwan o on 7 december 2013 to support the
sunshine action food program.

                                        page 16

caring for our community

sponsorship for acca community day 2014




the company donated hk$5,000 to support this event for the below beneficiaries & their
projects:

      asbury methodist social service
       speak in right words – training and rehabilitation project for children with special
       education needs (sen)
      hong kong alzheimer’s disease association (hkada)
       building up cognitive reserve: dementia education and six arts (六藝® )
       programme for seniors
      project concern hong kong
       dental care sponsorship programme to those in need secondary school students


world wide fund for nature



                         to care for the environment, the company has donated
                         hk$35,000 to become a silver member of wwf in 2013. apart
                         from the financial support, the company will also be encouraging
                         employees (with family and friends) to actively participate in the
                         activities wwf organizes.




                                          page 17

caring for our environment
the community chest green day 2013




to raise public awareness on protecting our environment while raising funds for the
needy hong kong, csi employees participated in the 13 th community chest green day
on the 16 & 17 of june 2013.

together we raised a total of 55 books, 21 toys, 70 pieces of clothing and 109
dvd/cd/vcds were collected and transferred to st. james’ settlement – community
resource recycling project. the project is to maximize the utilization of resources and
improve the quality of life of those low-income groups.

take a greener form of transport
csi staff had made cash donations of hk$725 and ordered a total of 17 sets of
commemorative mtr tickets to support the event. by using these tickets, they could
enjoy unlimited green rides on the mtr on the event days.




                                         page 18
