       you
inspired by


              2017 integrated annual report

table of contents
 2   ceo letter
 6   inspired by our consumers
 8   inspired by our communities
10   inspired by our employees
12   innovating on innovation
18   2020 strategy
36   2017 scorecard
42   recognitions
46   financial statements
54   corporate governance
57   corporate responsibility priorities
58   about this report
59   gri and ungc indices
69   stockholder information

          your
            needs. aspirations. life.
whether you're a clorox employee, consumer or live in a
community where we operate, we've grown our business
 for more than 100 years by working to understand how
      to make your everyday life better, every day.




               you
            inspire our imagination.
              drive our innovation.
                fuel our growth.



                                                          1

         fellow
         stakeholders:
                                                       i believe that every company
                                                       should remember their source of
                                                       inspiration — what makes them
                                                       tick, what sparks their creativity
                                                       and what motivates them to
                                                       make a difference. at clorox,
                                                       we’re continually focused on
                                                       understanding the evolving needs
                                                       and expectations of you, our
                                                       stakeholders, because you serve
                                                       as our source of inspiration in our
                                                       mission to make everyday
                                                       life better, every day.
                                                       benno dorer
                                                       chairman and
                                                       chief executive officer




2   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report                        g4-1, g4-15, g4-dma, g4-ec2, g4-la10

  you — our consumers — inspire the imagination,
  hard work and passion that go into the superior
  experiences of our leading brands.                                       our relentless focus on
                                                                         superior value contributed
  in fiscal year 2017, consumers were front and center of our 2020
  strategy. we continued our relentless focus on delivering products       to our strong results in
  and brands that offer superior value through strong investments in          fiscal year 2017.
  our demand creation programs, including product innovation across
  our portfolio. among many examples, we introduced clorox®

                                                                                      4%
  scentiva® wipes and sprays, using fragrance to deliver a more
  delightful cleaning experience; we launched the brita® stream™
  pitcher in response to millennials telling us they wanted a pitcher        sales growth, with sales
  that filtered on demand; we launched clorox healthcare® fuzion®            increasing every quarter
  cleaner disinfectant in healthcare settings to kill life-threatening
  pathogens; and we introduced a new oxygen bleach in korea,
  which is now the brand leader in its category. we also continued
  to tap into the best technology partners — many of which are near                 3 pts
  our headquarters in the san francisco bay area — to deliver the         incremental sales growth from
  right message to the right consumer at the right time. and today,            product innovation
  we’re investing about 45 percent of our media spend in digital

                                                                                 $112m
  marketing to continue leading the industry in technology-enabled,
  real-time consumer engagement.
                                                                                cost savings from
  importantly, our demand creation programs were successful
                                                                                productivity gains
  in introducing our family of brands to even more consumers.
  in fiscal year 2017, our brands were in over 1.4 million more u.s.
  households compared to fiscal year 2016, with clorox-company
  products in 90 percent of households.1                                           $5.35
                                                                                diluted eps from
                                                                              continuing operations

  you — those who live in our communities around the
  world — inspire our commitment to growing the right
  way: responsibly and guided by our values.
                                                                                      9%
                                                                          diluted eps increase, on top of
  at clorox, we continue to be focused on good growth — growth             an 8% increase in fiscal 2016
  that’s profitable, sustainable and responsible. we’re very mindful

                                                                                 $871m
  of our environmental and social impacts because the long-term
  well-being of our communities and planet is as much a priority for
  us as it is for our stakeholders. that’s why we continued to drive         net cash from continuing
                                                                            operations, a 13% increase

g4-1, g4-15, g4-dma, g4-ec2, g4-la10                                                                        3

                                                        “we’re very mindful of our environmental
                                                         and social impacts because the long-term
                           $11.1m
                         in cash grants, product        well-being of our communities and planet
                          donations and cause
                                marketing
                                                         is as much a priority for us as it is for
                              contributions.             our stakeholders.”


                   our eco strategy, making sustainability improvements to 34 percent of our product portfolio since our
                   baseline calendar year of 2011. our progress puts us on track to hit our 50 percent goal by 2020.2

                   we’ve also lowered our greenhouse gas emissions by 18 percent , water usage by 21 percent ,
                   energy usage by 15 percent and waste-to-landfill by 41 percent since 2011.

                   we continue to believe that vibrant and healthy communities play an important role in the health
                   of our business. in fiscal year 2017, our total impact to support our communities came to more than
                   $11 million in cash grants, product donations and cause marketing contributions.

                   as a signatory to the united nations global compact, we reaffirm our commitment to its ten principles
                   by driving our corporate responsibility strategy, a comprehensive set of commitments across our
                   company — from human rights, labor and product safety to transparency, environmental sustainability
                   and contributions to our communities. we value being a signatory to the ungc as it provides
                   an opportunity to continue learning from and sharing ideas with key sustainability influencers
                   and other companies.

                   we’re proud that others are recognizing our corporate responsibility progress. once again, the u.s.
                   environmental protection agency named clorox a safer choice partner of the year, and corporate
                   responsibility magazine included us among the top 100 companies on its best corporate citizens list.




                   you — our employees — inspire our ongoing quest to make clorox a dynamic
                   workplace that attracts and develops the best and brightest people.

                   our 8,100-plus employees around the world drove our strong results above and beyond financial
                   performance this fiscal year.

                   with inclusion and diversity as a business imperative, we continued our focus on making sure clorox
                   benefits from the diverse minds, experiences and backgrounds of our employees, which mirror the
                   diversity of our consumers around the world. it starts at the top. notably, female leaders make up
                   36 percent of clorox executive committee members . in addition, female and minority leaders each
                   make up 33 percent of our board of directors .

                   i’m very proud the company has been recognized for our strong inclusion and diversity programs.



4   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report                                                   g4-1, g4-15, g4-dma, g4-ec2, g4-la10

               we earned another 100 percent score from the human rights campaign for our lgbt workplace
               practices — a recognition we’ve achieved since 2006 — and diversity mba magazine ranked clorox
               no. 7 on its list of the 50 best employers for women and diverse managers, among other recognitions.

               it’s especially gratifying that all this has led to clorox achieving high levels of employee engagement.
               our current engagement score is 88 percent , higher than both the fast-moving consumer goods
               industry norm and the global high-performance norm. 3 this matters a great deal to the clorox
               management team since there’s a strong correlation between employee engagement and
               financial performance.




               we also continued our commitment to you,
               our shareholders.

               in fiscal year 2017, we returned $412 million in cash dividends to
               our shareholders. as we’ve done every year since 1977, we raised                                                                                 returned

                                                                                                                                                       $412m
               our annual cash dividend, announcing in the fourth quarter an
               increase of 5 percent. as of aug. 15, 2017, clorox’s dividend yield
               was 2.4 percent. our total shareholder returns of 6 percent for                                                                        in cash dividends to
               the one-year period ending aug. 15, 2017, ranked clorox in the top                                                                       our shareholders.
               tier of our peer group.




               in fiscal year 2018, we’ll continue to be guided by our 2020 strategy and draw on
               you, our stakeholders, for inspiration.

               for consumers, that’s focusing on superior value through our differentiated products and brands. for
               our communities, that’s maintaining our strong commitment to our values and corporate responsibility.
               and for clorox employees, it’s fostering a workplace where they can thrive and grow professionally
               and personally. for all our stakeholders, we’ll remain steadfastly committed to our values.

               sincerely,




               benno dorer
               chairman and chief executive officer
               august 15, 2017



               1 iri panel data, total us all outlet, nbd weighted, 52 weeks ending june 25, 2017.
               2 for the calendar year ended dec. 31, 2016. all sustainability metrics represent cumulative progress against cy 2011 baseline, and percentage is based on net customer sales. there
                 are four types of sustainability improvement criteria that can be met either by fully meeting one or by partially meeting two or more: 1) a 5 percent or more reduction in product or
                 packaging materials on a per-consumer-use basis; 2) an environmentally beneficial change to 10 percent or more of packaging or active ingredients on a per-consumer-use basis;
                 3) a 10 percent reduction in required usage of water or energy by consumer; or 4) an environmentally beneficial sourcing change to 20 percent or more of active ingredients or
                 packaging on a per-consumer-use basis.
               3 the willis towers watson global high-performance companies norm is based on responses from 142,506 employees at 26 companies. companies qualify for the norm by meeting
                  two criteria: 1) superior financial performance, defined by a net profit margin and/or return on invested capital that exceeds industry averages; and 2) superior human resources
                  practices, defined by employee opinion scores near the top among the most financially successful companies surveyed by willis towers watson.
                 reviewed by ernst & young llp. please refer to pages 52-53 for the review report.




g4-1, g4-15, g4-dma, g4-ec2, g4-la10                                                                                                                                                                     5

              you                                      inspire us to make everyday
                                                       life better, every day

              you, our consumers, inspire us to constantly look for ways to
              make our brands better.
              building our brands around you, the consumer, is nothing new for clorox.

              lately, we’ve looked to technology to help accelerate brand growth. through e-commerce,
              sense-and-respond marketing and insights gained through improved data, we’ve made progress.
              but the playing field has changed, as have your expectations. so we have, too.

              more than ever, your needs are at the center of what we do. through a consumer experience that
              addresses what’s important to you — reimagined and reinvented through the use of data and
              technology — our aim is to build deeper, longer-term connections between you and our brands.




                                                                                           consumer
                                                                                          connecting you
                                                                                         to your needs and
                                                                                          what you value.




6   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report

               brand
               solving a consumer need through not only the function of a product,
               but also by delivering a superior consumer experience.




               plotting the journey

               determining consumer needs, identifying consumer profiles and mapping
   insights
               how we would connect consumers to their needs.



               identifying pain points and opportunities, prioritizing and sequencing
  planning
               activities.



   design      reimagining the consumer experience, capabilities and organization.



               evaluating early performance to determine whether we’ve been successful
  measure
               at meeting consumers’ needs.




supported by



               data and technology
               allowing us to reimagine and reinvent the creation and delivery of
               experiences beyond advertising and our product, providing targeted,
               personalized, real-time interactions to consumers.



               clorox people
               uniting around common and easily understood objectives of helping
               consumers, tied to the brand purpose.


                                                                                         7

              inspired
              by our communities
              you, the people in our communities, inspire our company to give
              back, doing well while also doing good.
                                       health and wellness has been central to our mission since the founding
                                       of our company more than a hundred years ago. it all started with our
                                       namesake bleach, with disinfecting properties that kill germs that can
              2. billion               cause infections and other health threats. over time, our portfolio has
                                       expanded to include other products that support health and wellness,
                people worldwide such as our brita® filters and pitchers, burt’s bees® personal care and
                don’t have access beauty lines, and renewlife® digestive health aids.
                to safely managed
                drinking water*
                                       this legacy has made us a natural fit to support clean water and sanitation
                                       efforts — one of 17 global goals for sustainable development the united
                                       nations is seeking to achieve by 2030. the clorox safe water project and
    *“progress on drinking water,     brita canada’s filter for good campaign are two initiatives that seek to
     sanitation and hygiene: 2017
     update and sdg baselines,” world address a problem that is a leading cause of illness, malnutrition and even
     health organization and united
     nations children’s fund (unicef). death among children in developing countries.




                    bleach dispensers provide safe drinking water in peru
                    about 16 million people in peru don’t have access to safely managed drinking water*.
                    through the use of bleach dispensers — a low-cost, sustainable way to treat and disinfect
                    water — our clorox safe water project, launched in 2012, is providing drinkable water to
                    21 rural communities in the piura-tambogrande region of northern peru. the project also
                    has supported education to help families understand the connection between invisible
                    germs in their water and illness.




                                                         25,000+
                     350,000                             peruvians served
                                                            every year                        100m+
                       liters of water                                                      liters of safe water
                     purified every day                                                          every year




8   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report

                   new well system brings water — and
                   a better future for girls — to kenya
                   in many rural villages in kenya, the only water source can
                   be more than 6 miles away. responsibility for retrieving the
                   water rests on young girls, who must make the trip balancing
                   a 40-pound container on their backs. through the creation
                   of a borehole, a type of well that taps into a natural aquifer

40,000+
                   underground, our brita® brand’s filter for good campaign
                   is helping to bring safer drinking water directly to a remote
more kenyans now   community in kenya’s maasai mara region — and keeping
                   girls in school at the same time.
 receive cleaner
 drinking water
    every day




                                                                                    9

             inspired
             by our employees

             you, our employees, create a successful workplace and drive
             good growth.
             clorox employees strive to create an environment where everyone feels a sense of belonging —
             respecting, valuing, supporting and recognizing each other as much for their uniqueness as
             for those things they have in common. they know this enables everyone to do their best work
             and positions us for growth.




                                                                                     88%
                                                                                     employee engagement
                                                                                     (+8% vs. peer companies,
                                                                                      +3% vs. high-performing
                                                                                      companies)




10   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report

                                    115,000
                                    employee volunteer
                                    hours in cy 2016




seeking good ideas from everyone
regardless of position, role or background, employees are encouraged to share their
points of view and insights. more importantly, their perspectives are heard. one
measure of their satisfaction is our employee engagement score, which is higher than
that of our peers and among the best of the highest-performing global companies.


all in on innovation
initiatives spearheaded by employees have generated creative ideas from all corners.
innovent, our internal ideas contest, allows anyone to be an “intrapreneur.” an inaugural
hackathon used technology tools to bring together a diverse group of employees to
brainstorm new ways to expand direct-to-consumer sales. and employee resource
groups — one of our original sources of business ideas grounded in cultural and
multigenerational insights — continue to contribute to our innovation pipeline.


the gift of giving
our people love to give back to our communities. in the 2016 calendar year, almost
half of eligible employees participated in gift, the company’s charitable giving
program, contributing nearly $5 million to more than 3,500 nonprofits — well above
typical involvement at similar company programs.1 they also volunteered more
than 115,000 hours of their time — demonstrating that they live our company value
of “doing the right thing.”

through an inclusive approach to work, our employees inspire us, and each other,
to draw on the contributions of individuals and teams to help achieve a higher
collective purpose — both for our business and for society as a whole.



the median employee participation rate for matching gift programs is 7 percent. source: cecp giving in
1

numbers report: 2016 edition
                                                                                                         11

             innovating on innovation

             a conversation about how it happens
             innovation takes many forms at clorox — from developing a product that becomes a
             household name to advertising that creates buzz to an in-store display that grabs attention.
             here are perspectives on how we’ve been evolving to meet consumers’ changing needs
             from four senior leaders who help shepherd innovation throughout our organization: chief
             innovation officer denise garner, chief customer officer matt laszlo, chief marketing
             officer eric reynolds and chief information officer manjit singh.




             q. how does the consumer inspire clorox innovation?
                    denise garner | in r&d the consumer is our muse. we pay attention to what
                    consumers tell us they want in a product as well as observe their pain points to
                    identify unarticulated needs that present opportunities to innovate and delight.
                    consider the new brita® stream™ pitcher. millennials wanted a high-capacity
                    pitcher that was streamlined enough to fit inside the refrigerator door, delivered
                    fast filtration “on demand” and allowed them to add ice to the pitcher. their
                    feedback inspired us to reinvent our filtration technology and pitcher design.

                    manjit singh | consumers' embrace of technologies such as voice integration
                    and in-home smart speakers has us asking how we can leverage them to make
                    products even more practical, effective and easier to use. the brita® infinity
                    pitcher, clorox's first “internet of things” product, is an example of how it
                    partners with other groups inside clorox to deliver a superior consumer
                    experience, while we're using our voice integration skills to improve consumers'
                    experiences with our products in their homes.


             q. how has clorox innovation made a difference for our
                    retail customers?
                    matt laszlo | it starts with putting the consumer first. being able to meet
                    consumer needs through innovation makes us an extremely valuable, effective
                    partner to our retailers. we know that, for many consumers, scent can make
                    a mundane experience more enjoyable. that approach has helped clorox®
                    scentiva® cleaners get off to a good start with strong retailer support.



12   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report

left to right:
manjit singh, senior vice president and
chief information officer
eric reynolds, senior vice president and
chief marketing officer
matt laszlo, senior vice president and
chief customer officer
denise garner, senior vice president and
chief innovation officer




                                           13

                                q. how has your approach to innovation changed?
                                      matt laszlo | we’re thinking about innovation more broadly than ever before. not only
                                      are we developing new products, but we’re also expanding our existing products to new
                                      spaces, places and faces — for instance, by placing clorox® disinfecting wipes in the
                                      pharmacy section. why is this important? because consumers don’t make all of their
                                      purchases in one place anymore — or even two or three places. so we need to always
                                      look beyond traditional roles and rules to continue growing our business.

                                      denise garner | we’ve enhanced our innovation processes from end to end so we can
                                      create bigger, more sustainable ideas while moving at a faster pace — and minimize
                                      needed resources and costs in the process. this positions us to meet ever-changing
                                      consumer and retailer needs much more effectively. and it gives us a much better
                                      chance of being first to market with an innovation. we’re already seeing results with a
                                      stronger innovation pipeline.




         q. what does the next phase of innovation look like at clorox?
               eric reynolds | it’s about creating a seamless consumer experience. that
               means unlocking what motivates someone to purchase our products and
               bring them home.

               take the brita® infinity pitcher. it’s not just a pitcher. it connects to the internet
               and can reorder filters. for all our brands, we need to bring together the
               physical and digital experience — because people want an experience rather
               than just products.

               matt laszlo | we’ve got to be more and more digitally enabled. that could
               mean the product itself, the packaging or the online content, which educates,
               influences and tells the consumer a story.

               for example, do you get a push notification from hidden valley® ranch
               suggesting a recipe to try when you’re walking down the dressings aisle?
               or can we create packaging with more information on it for shoppers to
               engage with via their smartphones? more and more, our retailers want to
               play in the online world, even for the in-store experience. our innovation




14   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report

   needs to address the consumer desire for more education and interaction
   with our products.

   manjit singh | it’s going to be all about speed. with it involved from
   the start, we’ll be able to embed technology into our processes as
   well as our products to meet consumers’ ever-evolving needs.


q. in a crowded media landscape, how does innovation
   strengthen your marketing efforts?
   eric reynolds | the challenge for us is not the media landscape; it’s all the
   information and noise the average person gets today.

   to penetrate through with clear product ideas and messages, we need to
   innovate everywhere, including media, because communication is a big
   piece of what we’re trying to do.

   one area where we’re doing this is media planning. what’s worked well
   for decades — tv, print, digital — has started to fall. as media consumption
   continues to shift and fragment across multiple channels and environments,
   gaining consumers’ attention is challenging. there are too many messages and
   channels, and we need to break through this clutter. so we’re changing the way
   we approach the question. we’re trying to slide into their day-to-day lives at
   just the right moment with a piece of information they’re open to receiving at
   that particular time.



                      q. how do you nurture the spirit of innovation?
                           denise garner | we need to stay close to emerging trends with a laser focus
                           on our consumer, our categories and our competition as well as on the retail
                           environment and overall global trends.

                           then it is all about nurturing a sense of bold curiosity in our culture. curiosity
                           can help unlock insights about our consumers and technology, which can serve
                           as the foundation for innovation breakthroughs, whether it’s adapting the
                           technology or discovering a new consumer need that helps us focus our product
                           development efforts.

                           manjit singh | our curiosity has led us to establish relationships with organizations
                           such as research boards, venture capital groups and investment firms, which expose
                           us to early-stage innovations that can inspire new ideas and further improve our
                           speed to market. we encourage our employees to tap these relationships to
                           learn more about technology advances that will allow us to discover innovative
                           ways to solve consumer needs.


                                                                                                                   15

                                                                                         hidden valley
                                      clorox scentiva                                    simply ranch
                                      the new clorox® scentiva® disinfecting             to satisfy consumers’ appetites for
                                      wipes and sprays provide consumers                 better-for-you food products, we
                                      with experiential fragrances while they            introduced hidden valley® simply
                                      clean their homes and give us a new                ranch® dressing that delivers
                                      platform for growth that appeals to                amazing ranch taste with no artificial
                                      millennials and hispanics.                         preservatives, flavors or colors.




             products
             how we make innovation work for you.
                                      innovation is the lifeblood of any consumer products company. the more
                                      attuned we are to you, our consumers, and your changing world, the better
                                      we can provide you with products that make everyday life better, every
                                      day. helping people thrive — to live healthier, more satisfying lives — makes
                                      our brands essential. in our 2017 fiscal year, we introduced a host of new
                                      products across all our brands and businesses. each one is driven by insights
                                      into real people’s wants and needs as tastes and times change.

16   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report

clorox healthcare fuzion                                   brita stream pitcher and
the new clorox healthcare® fuzion® cleaner
disinfectant offers the healthcare industry a
                                                           brita longlast filter
disinfecting solution with the power of bleach,            the new brita® stream™ pitcher with filter-as-
providing the fastest kill time available against          you-pour technology fills quickly and pours
potentially life-threatening microorganisms like           immediately so consumers don’t need to wait
c. difficile spores, while leaving behind minimal odor     for filtered water, while the new brita longlast®
or residue without damaging common surfaces.               filter, which lasts three times longer than our
                                                           legacy filter and removes lead, can be used with
                                                           existing pitchers.




kingsford                                                burt’s bees strawberry lip
long-burning briquets                                    balm and tinted lip oils
kingsford® long-burning briquets were intro-             our 100 percent natural moisturizing lip care line
duced to capitalize on the growing interest              expanded further with the addition of burt’s bees®
in smoking and low-and-slow cooking. the                 strawberry lip balm, a mainstream flavor that’s
product burns 25 percent longer, making                  attractive to a broad range of consumers. our
pitmaster favorites like brisket and pulled              burt’s bees® tinted lip oils exceeded retail sales
pork easier for any backyard griller.                    projections in their fy17 launch year, driven by
                                                         an integrated marketing campaign that leveraged
                                                         digital platforms novel for the brand, and also
                                                         resulted in media coverage by fashion and
                                                         beauty publications.



                                                                                                               17

         2020 strategy
               entering the fifth year of our 2020 strategy,                      mission
                                                                                  we make everyday life better, every day.
               the clorox company remains focused on what
               we refer to as good growth — growth that is                        objective
               profitable, sustainable and achieved responsibly.                  be the best at building big-share
                                                                                  brands in economically attractive,
                                                                                  midsized categories.

                                                                                  commitment
                                                                                  leverage environmental, social and
                                                                                  governance performance to help drive
                                                                                  long-term, sustainable value creation.



               strategies
                                 business                                      corporate responsibility



                    1
                                 engage our people as business owners.         promote diversity, opportunity and
                                                                               respectful treatment for all people
                                                                               who touch our business.




                    2
                                 drive superior consumer value behind strong   make responsible products responsibly.
                                 brand investment, innovation and technology
                                 transformation.




                    3
                                 accelerate portfolio momentum in and around   safeguard families with be healthy,
                                 the core.                                     be smart and be safe initiatives.




                    4
                                 fund growth by reducing waste in our work,    shrink our environmental footprint while
                                 products and supply chain.                    we grow.




               long-term aspirations
                grow                                    expand                         deliver
                net customer sales by                   ebit margin                    free cash flow as % of sales

                +3-5% per year                          +25-50 basis points per year 10-12% per year

18   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report                                                            g4-2, g4-dma

       operating model
       factors driving our business success
       to achieve our business goals, we need to leverage the unique attributes of our company; maintain and build on our
       relationships with important partners such as our employees, retail customers and communities; and manage external
       factors that can influence our success.




                                                    external influences




        laws and                  global                   natural                  competition                raw materials
       regulations               economy                  resources                                                cost




                                                     our relationships




       consumers        employees       suppliers and     civil society/     communities         retail           investors
                                        other business       ngos                              customers
                                           partners




                                                         foundation

                     our values                                       our resources
                     • do the right thing                             • talented and engaged employees
                     • stretch for results                            • superior brand-building capabilities
                     • take personal ownership                        • strong product portfolio
                     • work together to win                           • financial discipline
                                                                      • strong cash flow




g4-2, g4-dma                                                                                                                   19

          strategy 1
                                                        business highlights
                                                        engage our people as business owners.

                                                            our annual employee engagement survey showed that 88 percent of
                                                            clorox employees feel engaged or highly engaged, far surpassing the
                                                            norm for consumer goods companies (80 percent), and even for global
                                                            high-performing companies (85 percent).1 results improved by 1 point
                                                            over last year, with increased survey participation (82 percent versus
                                                            79 percent), and more than 8,000 comments overall about the employee
                                                            experience at clorox.
                                                            voluntary employee reviews contributed to the company’s no. 12 ranking
                                                            on the list of best places to work in the u.s. and our ceo benno dorer’s
                                                            no. 1 ranking on the 2017 highest-rated ceos list by job site glassdoor.




     engage                                             corporate responsibility highlights
                                                        promote diversity, opportunity and respectful treatment for all people


     our
                                                        who touch our business.

                                                            clorox chairman and ceo benno dorer was one of more than 150 ceos

     people
                                                            from across the globe who were original signatories to the ceo action
                                                            for diversity & inclusion™, reaffirming that our company is a place where
                                                            diverse perspectives and experiences are accepted and encouraged.
                                                            we instituted “plus one” initiatives through which individuals with
                                                            different thinking styles or experience could be added to teams to
                                                            make them stronger.
                                                            the company spent $140 million with diverse suppliers during the fiscal
                                                            year, up from $20 million in 2008. diverse suppliers include minority-,
                                                            women-, service-disabled- and veteran-owned business enterprises, as
                                                            well as gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender business owners in the
                                                            u.s. and puerto rico.
                                                            the company maintained a world-class recordable incident rate (<1.0) of
                                                            0.60, reflecting a slight reduction compared to the previous year.




                                                        1
                                                         the willis towers watson global high-performance companies norm is based on responses
                                                        from 142,506 employees at 26 companies. companies qualify for the norm by meeting two
                                                        criteria: 1) superior financial performance, defined by a net profit margin and/or return on
                                                        invested capital that exceeds industry averages; and 2) superior human resources practices,
                                                        defined by employee opinion scores near the top among the most financially successful
                                                        companies surveyed by willis towers watson.



20   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report                                                                  g4-2, g4-dma, g4-la6, g4-la10

          progress update
          diversity and safety
          our goal
          driving minority and female representation and maintaining workplace safety.


          our progress
          inclusion and diversity are top priorities, and we’re               promoting safety as a core value remains a key
          making good progress.                                               component within our business culture. employees
                                                                              actively consider safety in what they undertake.
          minority and female representation on our board has                 as a result, our priority of maintaining a world-class
          consistently exceeded that of our peers in the fortune              recordable incident rate of less than 1.0 has been
          500. women continue to assume senior leadership                     consistent throughout the goal period, remaining
          roles, now making up 36 percent of our executive                    between 0.52-0.69 from 2013 to today.
          committee, compared with 20 percent four years
          ago.1 during the same time frame, representation of                 for us, employee well-being starts with ensuring diversity
          u.s. minority nonproduction employees and managers                  and safety. they’re the cornerstones of an engaged
          has edged upward toward industry averages.2                         workforce that’s focused on growing our business
                                                                              profitably, sustainably and responsibly.




                                   clorox u.s. minority nonproduction managers:

                                    24%      fy13       24%      fy14       25%      fy15       25%      fy16       26%      fy17


                                   2010 u.s. census: 30%


                                   clorox u.s. minority nonproduction employees:

                                    30%     fy13        30%     fy14        30%     fy15        31%   fy16          31%    fy17


                                   2010 u.s. census: 32%


          1
            past data on clorox minority and female board members only counted independent board members. to facilitate comparisons to peer
            companies, clorox now counts all board members when calculating its diversity data.
          2
            benchmarking of clorox performance on u.s. minority managers and employees reported from fiscal years 2013 to 2016 has been
            updated to compare with the 2010 census instead of the 2000 census.
             reviewed by ernst & young llp. please refer to pages 52-53 for the review report.



g4-2, g4-dma, g4-la6                                                                                                                          21

          strategy 2
                                                        business highlights
                                                        drive superior consumer value behind strong brand investment,
                                                        innovation and technology transformation.

                                                         we delivered 3 percent incremental sales growth from product
                                                         innovation across our global portfolio during fiscal year 2017.
                                                         our businesses tapped 360-degree video technology to showcase the
                                                         global problem of safe water access along with solutions supported by
                                                         the clorox® brand in peru and brita canada in kenya.
                                                         we continued to lead the industry with 45 percent of our media
                                                         spending focused on digital.
                                                         to win with the digital shopper, clorox tapped technology partnerships
                                                         to help deliver consumer experiences extending beyond product usage.
                                                         in canada, we launched geofencing — a feature that uses gps or radio

     drive                                               frequency identification technology to create a virtual geographical
                                                         boundary — with snapchat to target consumers in a specific neighborhood,
                                                         inviting them to an experiential event for the launch of burt’s bees®
     superior                                            lipsticks, and used virtual reality to showcase the brita® brand’s clean-
                                                         water initiatives.

     consumer                                            the fresh step® brand has returned to market share growth by accelerating
                                                         momentum behind last year’s fresh step with the power of febreze®

     value
                                                         launch. some of this year’s innovations included a hawaiian aloha™ scent;
                                                         new, easier-to-use four-packs; and improved shelf presence. expansion was
                                                         fueled further by a 75 percent improvement in advertising effectiveness
                                                         and increased merchandising compared to the previous fiscal year.




                                                                          our renewlife® brand, acquired in may 2016,
                                                                          continues to grow, gaining distribution and market
                                                                          share in the food, drug and mass channels, in line
                                                                          with our expectations, while maintaining a strong
                                                                          presence in the natural channel.




22   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report                                                                          g4-2, g4-dma

                       the brita® brand launched the
                       filtered life marketing campaign
                       featuring basketball superstar
                       stephen curry to inspire people
                       to filter out the bad and get to the
                       good, in water and in life, starting
                       with negativity and bullying online.




               corporate responsibility highlights
               make responsible products responsibly.

                for its facial towelettes, the burt’s bees® brand replaced the hard plastic door with a
                sticker-like closure, eliminating approximately 108,000 pounds of hard plastic from
                production annually and keeping it out of waste streams. a redesigned cardboard display
                tray for the towelettes also uses 90,000 pounds less paperboard per year.
                packaging for the burt’s bees® facial moisturizer was converted from mixed resin
                material, which is not recyclable curbside, to single-material tubes made of high-density
                polyethylene, or hdpe, making it easier for consumers to recycle.
                in support of our goal to eliminate all pvc packaging, we changed the material used for
                our kingsford® charcoal lighter fluid packaging to more environmentally friendly pet.




g4-2, g4-dma                                                                                                23

            progress update
                                                                                     on track to meet our goal

           product sustainability                                                          2020 goal          results to date

           improvements                                                                    50%                34%
           our goal
           make sustainability improvements to 50 percent of the product portfolio by 2020.


           our progress
           since our 2011 baseline, the percentage of our product             most of our product sustainability improvements have
           portfolio with sustainability improvements has increased           been achieved through material reduction in the
           steadily, from 7 percent in our first year to 34 percent           product or package, or both. by reducing materials in
           in 2016 , our most recent available data.                          our designs, we eliminate the footprint associated with
                                                                              the materials saved and reduce the transportation
           to meet our 2020 goal, we have established four                    footprint, as we can load more product onto fewer
           pathways for improving the sustainability of our                   trucks for distribution.
           products and packaging, allowing each brand to
           consider which approach makes the most sense while                 we’re on track to meet the 2020 goal, with a defined
           delivering superior consumer value. these options                  pipeline and path for product sustainability
           include 1) reducing materials; 2) using more sustainable           improvements. looking beyond 2020, we anticipate
           materials; 3) reducing the amount of water or energy               needing to shift more of our efforts beyond material
           required by consumers; and 4) sourcing materials                   reduction, as opportunities for further material
           more sustainably.*                                                 efficiency gains become more limited.


           *refer to page 53 for a full description of the criteria.



                product portfolio with sustainability improvements (cumulative progress since 2011 base year):

                    7%     cy12         15%     cy13          20%      cy14   31%   cy15    34%     cy16      50%    cy20 goal




24   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report                                                                    g4-2, g4-dma, g4-en27

g4-dma   25

                                                        		
          strategy 3
                                                        business highlights
                                                        accelerate portfolio momentum in and around the core.

                                                         sales in the e-commerce channel grew more than 30 percent in the 2017
                                                         fiscal year through partnerships with fast-growing online retailers and
                                                         testing of novel shopping methods like amazon dash, which simplifies
                                                         the reordering process for commonly used products.
                                                         licensing partnerships that extended our brands into new categories and
                                                         generated profitable revenue streams included clorox® fraganzia® air care,
                                                         brita® commercial filtration and softener systems, clorox® pool salt for
                                                         saltwater pools, clorox® laundry accessories and pine-sol® cleaning tools.




 accelerat e
 port folio
 moment um




                                                                          seeing a market opportunity, we developed
                                                                          a powder oxygen bleach in korea in just
                                                                          three months. we secured the no. 1 market
                                                                          position in key account channels, which
                                                                          represent 60 percent of the country’s oxygen
                                                                          bleach market, and also introduced a liquid
                                                                          line this year.




26   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report                                                                    g4-2, g4-dma

                                                                                  in the wake of hurricane
                                                                                  matthew, we donated nine
                                                                                  truckloads of product — over
                                                                                  5,400 cases of clorox® liquid
                                                                                  bleach and nearly 17,000
                                                                                  cases of glad® trash bags —
                                                                                  to support people in the
                                                                                  southeast u.s. and haiti
                                                                                  through partnerships with
                                                                                  the american red cross
                                                                                  and americares.




            corporate responsibility highlights
            safeguard families with our be healthy, be smart and be safe initiatives.

               we continued to help communities around the world recover from natural disasters.
               following historic flooding in louisiana, we donated 10 truckloads of product, including
               over 8,600 cases of clorox® liquid bleach and 18,700 cases of glad® trash bags, through
               the american red cross annual disaster responder program. we also donated clorox®
               bleach in peru to aid survivors of floods there in early 2017.
               we awarded six grants to urban farms in oakland, california; northwest arkansas;
               and the atlanta, georgia, metro area. this is a new focus area for the clorox company
               foundation and also a geographical expansion geared at fighting food insecurity in a
               number of the communities where our employees live and work.
               our brands continued to engage in cause marketing programs consistent with their
               purpose that are also meaningful to consumers.
                the peru business empowered peruvians to support our clorox safe water project and
                 provide more people in rural areas of the country with access to clean water.
                through the help of consumers with the purchase of specially marked products, brita
                 canada helped provide cleaner drinking water for an entire community in kenya — over
                 40,000 people this year — impacting not only their health, but also their education,
                 since many young girls who had been responsible for retrieving water for their families
                 are now able to attend school.
                the clorox® brand in the u.s. partnered with donorschoose.org to help teachers
                 prepare for back-to-school.
                the burt’s bees bring back the bees campaign
                 returned in 2017 to double its impact and plant
                 2 billion wildflowers.
                the fresh step® hot to adopt™ program sent shelter
                 cats down the catwalk at new york fashion week to
                 help promote cat adoption.




g4-2, g4-dma, g4-so1                                                                                              27

          progress update
          community support
          our goal
          safeguard families with our be healthy, be smart and be safe initiatives.


          our progress
          every year, we contribute in a meaningful way to support     disease outbreaks such as ebola in west africa, while
          the communities where we live and do business. it’s          our brands invested $4.3 million in cause marketing
          not about achieving a certain level of activity but about    campaigns to make a difference in safe drinking water,
          meeting the needs they face from year to year.               childhood obesity and pet adoption, to name a few
                                                                       projects aligned with their purposes.
          four years into our strategy, we’ve made substantial
          contributions to the well-being of our neighbors and our     during a corresponding period from the 2012 to 2016
          planet. from our 2013 to 2017 fiscal years, we’ve given a    calendar years, our employees volunteered 543,383
          total of $23 million in grants to support youth education,   hours of their time to improve their local communities,
          cultural and civic organizations, health initiatives and     effort that is valued at $11 million.
          more through our nonprofit foundations.
                                                                       consistent with our values as a company, we will
          during the same time frame, the company made                 continue to be committed to our communities, helping
          $44.4 million in product donations, much of which            them remain healthy and safe, as well as supporting
          helped in the recovery from natural disasters such           educational and cultural initiatives.
          as floods in the u.s., an earthquake in ecuador and




28   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report                                                               g4-2, g4-dma, g4-so1

$23m
in grants to support our
communities since fy13



g4-dma                     29

          strategy 4




     fund
     growt h                                            taking the first step to becoming zero-waste-to-landfill facilities, our jacksonville, florida,
                                                        and costa rica sites held dumpster dives to evaluate their existing recycling programs and
                                                        determine how to reduce volumes of waste.



                                                        business highlights
                                                        fund growth by reducing waste in our work, products and supply chain.
                                                          our hidden valley® simply ranch® dressing went from concept to shelf in
                                                          just 10 months — more than 50 percent faster than our average development
                                                          timeline of 24 months for large product innovation projects — thanks to
                                                          adoption of agile, or more efficient, business practices.
                                                          the company’s research and development division saved $400,000 by
                                                          designing a lab testing process to deliver higher-quality data in a shorter
                                                          amount of time. this initiative enables us to move faster in product
                                                          development and create backup labs for product testing, while still
                                                          providing necessary data and validation.
                                                          enterprisewide initiatives, including identification of alternative dedusting
                                                          agents for our litter formula, improvements to our namesake bleach with
                                                          polyelectrolyte complexes, or pecs — technology that makes it easier to
                                                          clean hard surfaces and improves the whitening performance in laundry
                                                          — and a number of other administrative improvements, contributed to
                                                          $111.6 million in cost savings.
                                                          our european cat litter business developed a new, locally sourced base
                                                          formula and consolidated manufacturing in a central location, increasing
                                                          distribution efficiency and providing $640,000 in cost savings in less than a
                                                          year, leading to a double-digit increase in margins for our ever clean® brand.
                                                          progress made in our go lean strategy in international yielded strong cost
                                                          savings and productivity gains throughout the fiscal year, enabling us to
                                                          invest selectively in higher-growth businesses.




30   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report                                                                                    g4-2, g4-dma

               corporate responsibility highlights
               shrink our environmental footprint while we grow.

                our glad® brand’s rogers, arkansas, plant — our largest
                manufacturing facility by number of employees —
                reached zero-waste-to-landfill status, becoming our
                third site to achieve this designation.
                a partnership with a nonprofit is helping the burt’s
                bees® brand achieve its sustainability goals while also
                helping adults with disabilities gain self esteem through
                meaningful work. by separating unsellable product
                from its packaging — for example, squeezing all the
                lotion out of a tube or twisting a lip balm out of its
                stick — the brand’s nonprofit partner was able to turn
                product waste into compostable or recyclable material,       as part of our ongoing commitment to responsible
                                                                             sourcing of palm oil, we targeted our top suppliers,
                reducing waste to energy by 90 percent compared              tracing more than 70 percent of the palm ingredients
                with past practices.                                         we source from them back to the mill. this figure
                                                                             is based on information collected by tft, which is
                based on a supplier survey that received a 100 percent       conducting our palm oil mapping work. the suppliers
                response rate, more than 99 percent of the fiber we          engaged represent 95 percent of our direct,
                                                                             domestically sourced palm-derivative ingredients.
                source directly was determined to be recycled or certified
                virgin fiber.
                our kingsford® brand’s summer shade, kentucky, manufacturing facility installed a fabric
                superstructure — slightly larger than a football field and nine stories tall — over its woodpile to
                prevent the material from being exposed to the elements. with the woodpile protected, less
                energy is required to dry it before it’s used to make char, a key ingredient for manufacturing
                charcoal briquets.




                                                                                     a superstructure designed
                                                                                     to keep woodpiles dry is
                                                                                     expected to reduce one
                                                                                     kingsford manufacturing
                                                                                     facility’s annual energy
                                                                                     consumption by


                                                                                     10 percent.


g4-2, g4-dma                                                                                                                        31

           corporate responsibility priorities:
           operational footprint reduction
           reduce the environmental impact of our operations and improve the sustainability of our
           upstream supply chain.

           as the fifth year of our footprint reduction goal period comes to a close, we have already exceeded our
           2020 goals to reduce solid-waste-to-landfill and water use and remain on target to reach our 2020 goals
           to lower energy use and greenhouse gas emissions. our facilities are not energy-intensive or water-intensive,
           making ongoing progress challenging now that we have already reduced energy and water use by 23 percent
           and 33 percent, respectively, per case of product sold, since establishing our first sustainability strategy in
           2008. nevertheless, we continue to seek innovative ways to reduce our overall operational footprint.




            progress update
                                                                      on track to deliver 2020 goal
                                                                            2020 goal            results to date

           energy                                                           20%                  15%
           our goal
           reduce energy use by 20 percent per case of product sold versus a 2011 calendar year baseline.


           our progress
           with the exception of a slight setback in 2014, we’ve      process of converting wood scrap to char, a key
           made steady progress to reduce our energy use during       ingredient for manufacturing kingsford® charcoal briquets.
           this goal period. based on our current data, we have       the team came up with two ideas to approach our
           now cut our energy use by 15 percent and are three-        operations differently in order to significantly reduce
           quarters of the way toward our 20 percent reduction        our footprint: to keep our inventory of wood scrap
           goal by 2020. some of the recent reductions in energy      dry and to reduce the frequency of shutdowns and
           use on an intensity basis are due to an increase in        furnace restarts.
           product volume and the resulting efficiencies of scale.
                                                                      in addition to the newer initiatives, we continue to
           to achieve our progress, we’ve focused on identifying      focus on site-specific efficiency improvements — such
           potential efficiencies in some of our most energy-         as installing led lighting — identified through our
           intensive processes. one area of focus has been the        energy audit action plan created a few years ago.




                energy use (annual progress versus 2011 base year):

                    10%    cy12           10%    cy13   6%   cy14      14%   cy15        15%    cy16        20%     cy20 goal




32   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report                                                       g4-2, g4-dma, g4-en6, g4-en19

                                                                            on track to deliver 2020 goal
                                                                                  2020 goal             results to date

           greenhouse gas emissions                                               20%                   18%
           our goal
           reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent per case of product sold versus a 2011 calendar year baseline.


           our progress
           we’ve made steady progress to reduce our greenhouse         while both arrays reduce overall greenhouse gas
           gas emissions during this goal period, with the exception   emissions, we do not include those of the aberdeen
           of a slight setback in 2014 due to the increased energy     rdc in the calculation of our greenhouse gas footprint
           needed to offset the effects of extreme weather. we have    because the third party retains the renewable energy
           now cut our greenhouse gas emissions by 18 percent          credit rights in the ppa. the benefits from the
           and have nearly reached our 2020 goal of 20 percent.        fairfield project will be included in next year’s data,
                                                                       as it came online in early 2017, after our current
           we’ve begun use of renewable energy, with solar             reporting period closed.
           panels activated at our fairfield, california, plant and
           our regional distribution center in aberdeen, maryland.     as with our energy use, some of the recent reductions
           both solar panel arrays were built with a third-party       in greenhouse gas emissions on an intensity basis are
           provider as power purchase agreements, or ppas. that        due to our increase in product volume and the resulting
           means we didn’t spend company money to build these          efficiencies of scale. greenhouse gas emissions are
           projects, and the facilities buy the solar-produced         also reduced through facility-based initiatives to install
           power from the third party instead of from the utility.     energy-efficient led lighting.



                         ghg emissions (annual progress versus 2011 base year):

                            10%   cy12      12%   cy13        11%   cy14      17%    cy15       18%   cy16        20%     cy20 goal




g4-2, g4-dma, g4-en6, g4-en19                                                                                                         33

                                                                        more than doubled our goal
                                                                              2020 goal            results to date

           waste                                                              20%                  41%
           our goal
           reduce solid waste-to-landfill by 20 percent per case of product sold versus a 2011 calendar year baseline.


           our progress
           our path to reducing solid waste-to-landfill has             throughout the goal period, we have also identified
           been up and down. we’re currently at a 41 percent            additional opportunities to reduce waste.
           reduction, more than double our 2020 goal. while we
           exceeded our goal just two years into the goal period,       although we’ve already significantly surpassed our
           in the two subsequent years our progress slowed.             2020 goal, we’re continuing to identify additional ways
           after an analysis, we determined that a significant          to reduce solid waste-to-landfill. three of our facilities
           contributor was the periodic replacement and disposal        have achieved zero-waste-to-landfill status — our
           of bricks used to line furnaces that turn wood chips         plants in fairfield, california; orangeville, ontario; and,
           into char at our kingsford plants. we resolved this          most recently, rogers, arkansas — and we remain on
           issue by repurposing the brick to build the base of          target to reach our goal of 10 sites by the end of the
           an onsite access road rather than sending it to a            goal period.
           landfill and have targeted similar beneficial reuse
           opportunities for brick in future years.




                     solid waste to landfill (annual progress versus 2011 base year):

                         1%   cy12        34%       cy13   30%   cy14     25%    cy15       41%    cy16        20%    cy20 goal




34   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report                                                                 g4-2, g4-dma, g4-en23

                                                                              exceeded 2020 goal
                                                                                    2020 goal            results to date

           water                                                                    20%                  21%
           our goal
           reduce water use by 20 percent per case of product sold versus a 2011 calendar year baseline.


           our progress
           with steady progress throughout the goal period, we            efficiencies of scale associated with recent volume
           surpassed our 20 percent water reduction goal this year,       growth, we accelerated our progress, from a 14 percent
           four years early.                                              reduction in water use in 2015 to a 21 percent
                                                                          reduction in the current year.
           to spur further reductions in the back-half of our goal
           period, we engaged a third party in 2015 and 2016 to           going forward, we believe additional water savings
           conduct water audits for our most resource-intensive           initiatives across the company have the potential to
           plants and identify best practices for saving water.           reduce water use by over 30 million gallons per year,
           since taking some initial steps recommended through            particularly through efficiency, recycling and reuse.
           the audits, and achieving intensity reductions through




                         water (annual progress versus 2011 base year):

                               5%   cy12    8%   cy13        11%   cy14         14%   cy15       21%   cy16        20%   cy20 goal




g4-2, g4-dma, g4-en6, g4-en8                                                                                                         35

              2017 scorecard
              our global footprint
                         global                         plant        administrative/         joint                   research &
                         headquarters                                sales office            venture                 development




                 north america

                        united states
                                                                                        asia
                        canada
                        mexico                                                         saudi arabia
                        dominican republic                                             united arab emirates
                        puerto rico                             europe                 china
                        panama                                                         south korea
                        costa rica                              united
                                                                                       hong kong
                                                                kingdom
                                                                                       philippines
                                                                                       malaysia




                                                                                                                                  new
                                                                                                                                  zealand




                         south america                            africa

                                   colombia                      egypt
                                   ecuador                       kenya                                     australia
                                   peru                          south africa
                                   uruguay
                                   argentina
                                   chile




36   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report                                   g4-4, g4-5, g4-6, g4-8, g4-9, g4-10, g4-dma, g4-la12

                                                                        sales by segment and category*




                $6.0b
                net sales


                                                                 34% cleaning
                8,100+
                                                                 19% home care                9% laundry            6% professional
                                                                 clorox®                      clorox®               products
                                                                 pine-sol®                    clorox2®              clorox healthcare®
                                                                 tilex®                                             clorox commercial solutions®
                                                                 409®
                employees                                        liquid-plumr®
                                                                 green works®




                                                                 33% household
                25+
                                                                 14% bags,                    10% charcoal          2% digestive health
                                                                 wraps & containers           kingsford®            renewlife®
                                                                 glad®                        match light®

                                                                                              7% cat litter
                country/territory                                                             fresh step®
                operations                                                                    scoop away®




                                                                 17% international
                                                                 9% latin america             2% australia/         3% rest of world



                100+
                                                                 3% canada                    new zealand




                markets around
                the world
                                                                 16% lifestyle
                                                                 9% food products             4% natural personal   3% water filtration
                                                                 hidden valley®               care                  brita®
                                                                 soy vay®                     burt's bees®
                                                                 kc masterpiece®


                                                                 * all percentages represent rounded numbers.



g4-4, g4-5, g4-6, g4-8, g4-9, g4-10, g4-dma, g4-ec1, g4-la8, g4-la12                                                                               37

                                                                                                                                                        net sales
                                                                                                                                                        ($ millions)

                                                                                                                                                                                     $5,973
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            $

                                                              performance                                                                               $5,655
                                                                                                                                                                        $5,761
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    $648
                                                              achieving financial
                                                                                                                                                                                                    $606
                                                            success while investing
                                                               for the long term.
                                                                                                                                                                                     $5,973
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            $
                                                                                                                                                         fy15           $5,761
                                                                                                                                                                         fy16          fy17             fy15         fy16
                                                                                                                                                        $5,655                                                      $648

                                                                                                                                                                                                    $606

                                                                                                                                                                                     18.7%                                  $
                                                                                                                                                                                                      $858
                                                                                                                                                                        18.5%
                                                                                                                                                        earnings from continuing
                                                                                                                                                        18.0%
                                                                                                                                                        operations
                                                                                                                                                         fy15       fy16 interest
                                                                                                                                                                    before   fy17                       fy15         fy16
                                                                                                                                                        and taxes margin1                                           $768
                                                                                                                                                        (as a % of net sales) (non-gaap)



                                                                                                                                                                                     18.7%                                  $
                                                                                                                                                                                                    $858
                                                                                                                                                         fy15            fy16
                                                                                                                                                                        18.5%         fy17           fy15            fy16


                                                                                                                                                        18.0%

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    $768




                                                                                                                                                         fy15                fy16      fy17             fy15         fy16



     see footnotes below for descriptions of these non-generally accepted accounting principles, or non-gaap, measures,   2. reconciliation of economic profit (i)
     the reasons management believes they are useful to investors, and reconciliations to the most directly comparable
     financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with u.s. gaap.                                              dollars in millions and all calculations
                                                                                                                             based on rounded numbers                                fy15      fy16          fy17
     1. reconciliation of ebit                                                                                              earnings from continuing operations before
                                                                                                                               income taxes                            $ 921  $ 983  $ 1,033
       dollars in millions                                          fy15            fy16           fy17                     add back:
       earnings from continuing operations before                                                                           noncash u.s. gaap restructuring and
          income taxes                            $ 921 $ 983 $ 1,033                                                          intangible asset impairment charges		       1		    9		      4
       interest income		 -4		 -5		 -4                                                                                       interest expense		 100		 88		 88
       interest expense		 100		 88		 88                                                                                     earnings from continuing operations before
       ebit (i) — non-gaap       $ 1,017 $ 1,066 $ 1,117                                                                      income taxes, noncash u.s. gaap restructuring,
       ebitmargin(i) — non-gaap		 18.0%		 18.5%		 18.7%                                                                       intangible asset impairment charges and
       net sales                 $ 5,655 $ 5,761 $ 5,973                                                                      interest expense                                      $ 1,022   $ 1,080     $ 1,125
                                                                                                                            less: income taxes on earnings from continuing
       (i) ebit represents earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, interest income and interest             operations before income taxes, noncash
            expense. ebit margin is the ratio of ebit to net sales. the company’s management believes these measures          u.s. gaap restructuring, intangible asset
            provide useful additional information to investors about trends in the company’s operations and are useful        impairment charges and interest expense (ii)		 350		 368		 359
            for period-over-period comparisons.                                                                             adjusted after-tax profit                               $ 672     $ 712       $ 766
                                                                                                                            average capital employed (iii)                          $ 2,385   $ 2,463     $ 2,680
                                                                                                                            less: capital charge (iv)                               $ 214     $ 222       $ 241
                                                                                                                            economic profit (i) (adjusted after-tax profit
                                                                                                                              less capital charge)                                  $ 458     $ 490       $ 525




38     the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report                                                                                       g4-4, g4-5, g4-6, g4-8, g4-9, g4-10, g4-dma, g4-ec1, g4-en19

                   earnings from                                                                                                                                                       diluted net earnings per share
                   continuing operations                                                                 economic profit2                                                              from continuing operations
                   ($ millions)                                                                          (non-gaap) ($ millions)

$5,973              $5,973                  $5,973                                                                    $525                $525                   $525
                                                                                                                                                                             $5.35                   $5.35                  $5.35
                                                          $703                     $703                    $703
   $5,761                  $5,761
                                                                                                                                                           $4.92                   $4.92                  $4.92
      $5,655                          $648                      $648                    $648 $490                           $490             $490
                                                                                                                                         $4.57                   $4.57                  $4.57
                   $606                     $606                     $606
                                                                               $458                      $458                    $458


$5,973              $5,973                                          $525                                                                   $525
                                                                                                                                                                              $5.35                   $5.35
                                      $703        $703
   $5,761
 fy17  fy15
    fy16                fy16 fy16
                     fy15
                     fy17        fy17
                                 fy15 fy17  fy15 fy15
                                          fy16        fy16 fy16
                                                   fy17         fy17 fy17
                                                              fy15        fy15
                                                                        fy16                                                                  fy16 fy16
                                                                                                                                            fy17
                                                                                                                                           fy15         fy17                         fy15                 fy16                fy17
                                                                                                                                                   $4.92fy15                   fy17
                                                                                                                                                                                  fy16
                                                                                                                                                                                 $4.92
                                                                                                                                                                                                        fy17
                             $648        $648             $490         $490
                                                                                                                                         $4.57                   $4.57
                   $606                      $606
                                                                               $458                      $458
                                                                               $733                      $733                    $733
18.7%              18.7%                    18.7% $871                           $871                     $871
                   $858                     $858       $858
    18.5%             18.5%


 fy17 18.0% net
    fy16        cash provided
             fy15
             fy17      fy16   by fy17
                           fy15     fy16                                          fy15
                                                                                    fy17             fy16     fy17
                                                                                                        fy15 $640 fy16                    fy15
                                                                                                                                           fy17               fy16
                                                                                                                                                                 fy15           fy17
                                                                                                                                                                                   fy16                 fy17
                                                                                                                                          $640                  $640
                              operations $768
                   continuing$768                                                       $768             free cash flow3
                   ($ millions)                                                                       (non-gaap) ($
                                                                                                   $596             millions)
                                                                                                                  $596                         $596


                                                                    $733         $733
18.7%        18.7%                                        $871        $871
             $858                         $858
 fy17   fy15 fy15
     fy16
    18.5%        fy16
              fy17                         fy17
                                           fy15
                                        fy16                    fy15 fy15
                                                              fy16
                                                           fy17           fy16 fy16
                                                                       fy17         fy17 fy17
                                                                                  fy15        fy15
                                                                                            fy16                                              fy16
                                                                                                                                            fy17                   fy17


                                                                                                                      $640                 $640
                                      $768                      $768
                                                                                                   $596                      $596



 fy17
    fy16             fy15
                     fy17                fy16
                                            fy15            fy17
                                                               fy16               fy15
                                                                                    fy17             fy16
                                                                                                        fy15            fy17
                                                                                                                           fy16              fy17



     (i) economic profit (ep) is defined by the company as earnings from continuing operations before income                       (iv) capital charge represents average capital employed multiplied by a cost of capital rate, which was
          taxes, excluding noncash u.s. gaap restructuring and intangible asset impairment charges, and interest                          9 percent for all fiscal years presented. the calculation of capital charge includes the impact of
          expense; less income taxes (calculated utilizing the company’s effective tax rate), and less a capital charge                   rounding numbers.
          (calculated as average capital employed multiplied by a cost of capital rate). ep is a key financial metric that the      (v) prior year amounts have been retrospectively adjusted to conform to the current year presentation of debt
          company’s management uses to evaluate business performance and allocate resources, and is a component in                      issuance costs required by asu no. 2015-03, "simplifying the presentation of debt issuance costs."
          determining employee incentive compensation. the company’s management believes ep provides additional
                                                                                                                                    (vi) accounts payable and accrued liabilities were combined into one financial statement line as of june 30,
          perspective to investors about financial returns generated by the business and represents profit generated
                                                                                                                                         2016. the change has been retrospectively applied to all periods presented. accounts payable and accrued
          over and above the cost of capital used by the business to generate that profit.
                                                                                                                                         liabilities and other liabilities are adjusted to exclude interest-bearing liabilities.
     (ii) the tax rate applied is the effective tax rate on earnings from continuing operations, which was 34.2%,
           34.1% and 31.9% in fiscal years 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively.                                                       3. free cash flow is calculated as net cash provided by continuing operations less capital expenditures related
     (iii) total capital employed represents total assets less noninterest-bearing liabilities. adjusted capital employed              to continuing operations and was $733 million, $596 million and $640 million for fiscal years 2015, 2016
           represents total capital employed adjusted to add back current year after tax noncash u.s. gaap                              and 2017, respectively. for fiscal years 2015, 2016 and 2017, net cash provided by continuing operations
           restructuring and intangible asset impairment charges. average capital employed is the average of adjusted                   was $858 million, $768 million and $871 million, respectively, and capital expenditures were $125 million,
           capital employed for the current year and total capital employed for the prior year, based on year-end                       $172 million and $231 million, respectively. the company’s management uses free cash flow and free cash
           balances. see below for details of the average capital employed calculation:                                                 flow as a percent of sales to help assess the cash generation ability of the business and funds available for
                                                                                                                                        investing activities, such as acquisitions, investing in the business to drive growth, and financing activities,
     dollars in millions                                                fy15              fy16             fy17                         including debt payments, dividend payments and share repurchases. free cash flow does not represent cash
                                                                                                                                        available only for discretionary expenditures, since the company has mandatory debt service requirements
         total assets(v)                                             $ 4,154           $ 4,510          $ 4,573
                                                                                                                                        and other contractual and non-discretionary expenditures. in addition, free cash flow may not be the same
         less:                                                                                                                          as similar measures provided by other companies due to potential differences in methods of calculation and
          accounts payable and accrued liabilities(vi)		 976		1,032		1,002                                                              items being excluded.
          income taxes payable 		 31		                            —		    —
          other liabilities(vi)		 745		 784		 770
          deferred income taxes 		 61		 82		 95
         		    noninterest bearing liabilities 		1,847		1,898		1,833
         total capital employed 		2,307		2,612		2,740
         after tax noncash u.s. gaap restructuring
          and intangible asset impairment charges 		 1		 6		 2
         adjusted capital employed                                   $ 2,308           $ 2,618          $ 2,742
         average capital employed                                    $ 2,385           $ 2,463          $ 2,680


              g4-4, g4-5, g4-6, g4-8, g4-9, g4-10, g4-dma, g4-ec1, g4-en19                                                                                                                                                                                 39

                                                                                                      diversity as a business strength
                                                                                                      in the workforce
                                 people
                   engaging our people as                                                             41%                                                                        50%
                     business owners and                                                              global female                                                              global female
                   promoting diversity and                                                            nonproduction managers                                                     nonproduction employees
                    inclusion, opportunity
                        and respectful
                          treatment.
                                                                                                      31%                                                                        26%
                                                                                                      ethnic minorities among u.s.                                               ethnic minorities among
                                                                                                      nonproduction employees                                                    u.s. nonproduction managers
                                                                                                      (vs. 32% u.s. census bureau)3                                              (vs. 30% u.s. census bureau)3

             best-in-class
             employee engagement1
                                                                                                      in corporate governance4
             88%
             employee engagement
                                                                                                      33%                                                                        36%
             (vs. 80% for peers, 85% for                                                                                                                                         female clorox executive
             high-performing companies)                                                               minority board members                                                     committee members
                                                                                                      (vs. 14% fortune 500 average)5


             world-class workplace safety2

             .60                                                                                      33%
             recordable incident rate                                                                 female board members
             (vs. world-class level <1.0)                                                             (vs. 20% fortune 500 average)5




                                                                                                      3%
                                                                                                      incremental sales from
                                                                                                      product innovation
                                                                                                                                                                                         products
                                                                                                                                                                               innovating and making
                                                                                                     goal                                                                       responsible products,
                                                                                                     50% 34%                                                                        responsibly.
                                                                                                     by 2020               product portfolio
                                                                                                                           with sustainability
                                                                                                                           improvements6

1 the willis towers watson global high-performance companies norm is based on responses from 142,506 employees at 26 companies. companies qualify for the norm by meeting two criteria: 1) superior financial performance,
   defined by a net profit margin and/or return on invested capital that exceeds industry averages; and 2) superior human resources practices, defined by employee opinion scores near the top among the most financially successful
   companies surveyed by willis towers watson.
2 based on corporate benchmarking by clorox, we consider a recordable incident rate of 1.0 or less to be world-class. our fy17 rir of .60 means that for every 100 clorox employees, we averaged less than one reportable incident
   during the past year. according to the latest available data from the u.s. bureau of labor statistics, the average rir for goods-producing manufacturing companies is 3.7. the criteria used to determine rir follows the u.s.
   department of labor’s occupational safety and health administration guidelines and is applied globally.
3 benchmarking of clorox performance on u.s. minority managers and employees is calculated using data from the 2010 census.
4 past data on clorox minority and female board members only counted independent board members. to facilitate comparisons to peer companies, clorox now counts all board members when calculating its diversity data.
5 “missing pieces report: the 2016 board diversity census of women and minorities on fortune 500 boards,” deloitte and the alliance for board diversity, 2017.
6 for the calendar year ended dec. 31, 2016. all sustainability metrics represent cumulative progress against cy 2011 baseline, with percentage based on net fiscal year customer sales. there are four types of sustainability improvement
   criteria that can be met either by fully meeting one or partially meeting two or more: 1) a 5 percent or more reduction in product or packaging materials on a per-consumer-use basis; 2) an environmentally beneficial change to
   10 percent or more of packaging or active ingredients on a per-consumer-use basis; 3) a 10 percent reduction in required usage of water or energy by consumer; or 4) an environmentally beneficial sourcing change to 20 percent
   or more of active ingredients or packaging on a per-consumer-use basis.
7 financial equivalent of 115,000 volunteer hours, calculated at $24.14 per hour, based on the 2016 u.s. value of volunteer time from independentsector.org. less than 5 percent of these hours are by employees outside the u.s.,
   but all are calculated using the u.s. average rate.
   reviewed by ernst & young llp. please refer to pages 52-53 for the review report.


40    the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report                                                                             g4-4, g4-5, g4-6, g4-8, g4-9, g4-10, g4-dma, g4-ec1, g4-en23, g4-la12

                           planet
                       shrinking our
                      environmental


                                                                                                  $11.1m
                  footprint while growing
                       our business.

                                                                                                  total impact


                                                                                                  $5.4m
                                                                                                  u.s. corporate
        operational footprint reduction                                                           product donations
          (cy 2016 vs cy 2011 per case of product sold)



                            goal                                                                  $4.6m
                            20%
                                                                                                  the clorox company
                                                                                                  foundation and burt’s
                                                                                                  bees® greater good
                            by 2020                                                               foundation cash grants



                                                                                                  $1.1m
             18%                          15%                                                     u.s. cause-marketing
                                                                                                  contributions
             greenhouse                   energy
             gas emissions                consumption




             21%                          41%
             water
             consumption
                                          solid waste
                                          to landfill                                             community
                                                                                                safeguarding families
                                                                                                with our be healthy,
                                                                                                be smart and be safe
                                                                                                     initiatives.




                                                                                        $2.8m
                                                                                                  7



                                                                                        or 115,000
                                                                                        employee volunteer
                                                                                        hours in cy 2016




g4-4, g4-5, g4-6, g4-8, g4-9, g4-10, g4-dma, g4-ec1, g4-en6, g4-en8, g4-en19, g4-en23                                      41

                                                               2017 all-america executive
                                                                team (investor relations
                                                                      department)
                    company                                     no. 1 ranking, beverage,

                    recognitions                                household and personal
                                                                       care sector
                                                                    —institutional investor




                                          no. 1 ranking             no. 12 ranking




                                         2017 best legal             perfect scores
                                          departments                 since 2006
                                 —corporate counsel magazine




                           inaugural thomson reuters             best campaign award
                          diversity and inclusion index:       2016 (social responsibility
                             top 25 publicly traded                campaign, clorox
                               companies globally                     puerto rico)



42   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report

        talent payback                   no. 7 ranking:
          of the year              best places for women &
           —scm world              diverse managers to work



   top 100 most creative             ilsa general counsel
  people in business 2017             award for best usa
      (denise garner,                  legal department:
  chief innovation officer)         consumer goods & retail
         —fast company




                                          2017 supply
                                      chainnovator award
                                     for consumer products
                                           —gartner inc.




 bay area cfo of the year                    cr’s
award, large public company                100 best   corporate
                                                      citizens


  category (steve robb,                             2017
  chief financial officer)
   —larkin street youth services        no. 12 ranking
                                          —cr magazine




                                                                  43

                    brand
                    recognitions

                                                 clorox:
                                                 family circle magazine’s best of cleaning awards
                                                 (clorox scentiva multi-surface cleaner in hawaiian sunshine, u.s.)
                                                 l2 digital report, no. 3 ranking, digitally gifted (u.s.)
                                                 cadem research insight innovation, citizen brand studio 2017 and
                                                 relevant brand 2017 (chile)




                                                                               renewlife:
                                                                               vitamin retailer, 2017 vity award
                                                                               for excellence,
                                                                               specialty & herbal supplement —
                                  better nutrition 2016
                                 best of supplements                           fiber/internal cleanser supplement
                                      winner!                                  (total body cleanse, u.s.)
                                                                               delicious living magazine,
                                                                               2017 delicious living supplement
                                                                               award, best cleanse/detox category
                                                                               (3-day cleanse total-body reset, u.s.)
                                                                               taste for life magazine,
                                                                               2016 essentials award,
                                                                               gluten-free category (renewlife
                                                                               organic clear fiber™, u.s.)
                                                                               better nutrition magazine,
                                                                               2016 best of supplements award —
                                                                               detox & cleansing (u.s.)




44   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report

soy vay:                         clorinda:                 poett:
tumblr 9th annual shorty         gfk adimarc, brand of     golden pencil advertising award
award finalist (u.s.)            excellence 2017 (chile)   (poett fraganza — spot: “home,”
                                                           argentina)




burt’s bees:

allure best of beauty award 2016 winner,
(best natural wonder — burt’s bees lipsticks;
best sensitive cleanser — burt’s bees sensitive
cleanser, u.s.)
l2 digital report, no. 19 ranking of 63,
fast-moving consumer goods companies (u.k.)
2017 sunday times style awards (best natural
beauty brand, u.k.)
2017 cew awards, best new make-up product
for lips (mass) (burt’s bees lipsticks, u.k.)
seventeen 2017 haul of fame award, best lip
balm (burt’s bees flavor crystals lip balm, u.s.)
2017 self approved beauty awards, best eye
makeup remover (burt’s bees eye makeup
remover pads, u.s.)
brandspark international’s best new
product awards, lip colour category
(burt’s bees lipsticks, canada)
the 2017 elle green awards,
(burt’s bees 100% natural lipstick, australia)
natural beauty awards 2017,
best face exfoliant (burt’s bees peach and
willowbark deep pore scrub, australia)
instyle best beauty buys 2017, lips (burt’s bees
lip crayon, anz) and reader’s choice (burt’s bees
beeswax lip balm, australia)




                                                                                             45

        financial statements
          condensed consolidated statements of earnings


         years ended june 30
         dollars in millions, except share and per share data        2016		
                                                                2017		    2015
         net sales                                              $ 5,973  $ 5,761  $ 5,655
         cost of products sold                                    3,302		 3,163 		 3,190
         gross profit                                               2,671 		 2,598		 2,465

         selling and administrative expenses                         810		 806 		 798
         advertising costs		                                         599 		 587 		 523
         research and development costs		                            135 		 141 		 136
         interest expense		                                           88 		  88 		 100
         other (income) expense, net		                                 6		    (7)		 (13)
         earnings from continuing operations before income taxes		 1,033 		 983		 921
         income taxes on continuing operations		 330 		 335 		 315
         earnings from continuing operations		                       703 		 648 		 606
         losses from discontinued operations, net of tax		             (2)		  —		 (26)
         net earnings                                           $    701   $   648   $   580

         net earnings (losses) per share
           basic
         		 continuing operations	  $ 5.45     $ 5.01   $ 4.65
         		 discontinued operations	  	 (0.02)		    — 		 (0.20)
           basic net earnings per share                         $   5.43   $ 5.01    $ 4.45

           diluted
         		 continuing operations    $ 5.35  $ 4.92   $ 4.57
         		 discontinued operations		 (0.02)		    — 		 (0.20)
           diluted net earnings per share                       $   5.33   $ 4.92    $ 4.37

         weighted average shares outstanding (in thousands)
          basic			 128,953 		129,472 		 130,310
          diluted		 131,566 		131,717		 132,776




46   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report

                                          financial statements


condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income


years ended june 30
dollars in millions                                                   2016		
                                                                 2017		    2015
earnings from continuing operations                              $ 703    $ 648 $ 606
losses from discontinued operations, net of tax                      (2)		 —		 (26)
net earnings                                                      701		 648 		 580
other comprehensive income (losses):
  foreign currency adjustments, net of tax                          (3)		 (53)		 (54)
  net unrealized gains (losses) on derivatives, net of tax           7		 9 		 (14)
  pension and postretirement benefit adjustments, net of tax       23		 (24)		 (17)
total other comprehensive income (losses), net of tax              27		 (68)		 (85)
comprehensive income                                             $ 728   $ 580   $ 495




                                                                                         47

                                                  financial statements


          condensed consolidated balance sheets


         years ended june 30
         dollars in millions, except share and per share data			                                              2016
                                                                                                         2017		
         assets
         current assets
           cash and cash equivalents                                                         		 $ 418 $ 401
           receivables, net                                                                  			 565		 569
           inventories, net                                                                  			 459		 443
           prepaid expenses and other current assets                                         			   72		72
         		 total current assets                                                             			 1,514		 1,485
         property, plant and equipment, net                                                  			 931		 906
         goodwill                                                                            			 1,196		 1,197
         trademarks, net                                                                     			 654		 657
         other intangible assets, net                                                        			    68		78
         other assets                                                                        			 210		187
         total assets                                                                        		          $ 4,573      $ 4,510

         liabilities and stockholders’ equity
         current liabilities
           notes and loans payable                                                           		 $ 404   $ 523
           current maturities of long-term debt                                              			 400		       —
           accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                          			 1,005		 1,035
           income taxes payable                                                              			     —		     —
         		 total current liabilities 			 1,809		 1,558
         long-term debt			                1,391		 1,789
         other liabilities			               770		784
         deferred income taxes			            61		82
         		 total liabilities			                                                                           4,031		 4,213
         commitments and contingencies
         stockholders’ equity
         preferred stock: $1.00 par value; 5,000,000 shares authorized; none issued or outstanding    			          —		      —
         common stock: $1.00 par value; 750,000,000 shares authorized; 158,741,461 shares issued
           as of june 30, 2017 and 2016; and 129,014,172 and 129,355,263 shares outstanding as of
           june 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively		                                                            		 159		 159
         additional paid-in capital                                                                   			 928		 868
         retained earnings                                                                            			 2,440		 2,163
         treasury shares, at cost: 29,727,289 and 29,386,198 shares as of june 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively (2,442) (2,323)
         accumulated other comprehensive net (losses) income                                          			 (543)          (570)
         stockholders’ equity                                                                			 542		 297
         total liabilities and stockholders’ equity                                          		          $ 4,573      $ 4,510




48   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report

                                       financial statements


condensed consolidated statements of stockholders’ equity

							accumulated
							other
                        common stock		 additional		          treasury shares		 comprehensive
                    shares		            paid-in   retained shares		             net (losses)
dollars in millions  (000)      amount  capital   earnings  (000)       amount    income               total


balance as of june 30, 2014            158,741   $159   $709   $1,739   (29,945)   $(2,036) $(417)     $ 154
net earnings                                                      580                      		            580
other comprehensive (loss) income                                                              (85)       (85)
accrued dividends                                           (391)                                       (391)
stock-based compensation                                 32		                                              32
other employee stock plan activities                     34    (5)       (4,198)       233		             262
treasury stock purchased                                                  4,016       (434)		           (434)

balance as of june 30, 2015            158,741    159    775    1,923 (30,127)      (2,237)    (502)     118
net earnings                                                      648		                                  648
other comprehensive (loss) income                                                               (68)      (68)
accrued dividends                                           (406)                                       (406)
stock-based compensation                                 45		                                              45
other employee stock plan activities                     48    (2)        2,892        168		             214
treasury stock purchased                                                 (2,151)      (254)             (254)

balance as of june 30, 2016            158,741    159    868    2,163 (29,386)      (2,323)    (570)     297
net earnings                                                      701		                                  701
other comprehensive income (loss)                                                               27        27
accrued dividends                                            (421)                                      (421)
stock-based compensation                                 51		                                             51
other employee stock plan activities             		       9     (3)       1,164         70		              76
treasury stock purchased                                    		           (1,505)      (189)             (189)

balance as of june 30, 2017            158,741   $159   $928   $2,440   (29,727)   $(2,442)   $(543)   $542




                                                                                                                 49

                                                  financial statements


          condensed consolidated statements of cash flows


         years ended june 30
         dollars in millions                                                          2016		
                                                                                 2017		    2015
         operating activities:
          net earnings                                                           $ 701    $ 648  $ 580
          deduct: losses from discontinued operations, net of tax                    (2)		    —		 (26)
           earnings from continuing operations                                     703		 648 		 606
           adjustments to reconcile earnings from continuing operations to net
         		 cash provided by continuing operations:
         			 depreciation and amortization                                         163		 165 		 169
         			 stock-based compensation                                                51		 45 		 32
         			 deferred income taxes                                                  (35)		 5 		 (16)
         			 settlement of interest rate forward contracts                            —		  —		 (25)
         			 other                                                                   36		  1 		 (17)
         			 changes in:
         				 receivables, net                                                       (1)		 (52)		  6
         				 inventories, net                                                     (19)		 (45)		 (25)
         				 prepaid expenses and other current assets                              (5)		   6 		  6
         				 accounts payable and accrued liabilities                             (34)		 57 		 93
         				 income taxes payable                                                  12		 (62)		 29
         net cash provided by continuing operations                                871		 768 		 858
         net cash (used for) provided by discontinued operations                    (3)		   10 		    16
         net cash provided by operations                                           868		 778 		 874
         investing activities:
           capital expenditures                    (231)		 (172)		 (125)
           business acquired, net of cash acquired    —		 (290)		 —
           other 		 26		 32 		 19
         net cash used for investing activities                                   (205)		 (430)		 (106)
         financing activities:
           notes and loans payable, net                                            125		 426 		 (48)
           long-term debt borrowings, net of issuance costs                          —		     —		 495
           long-term debt repayments                                                 —		 (300)		 (575)
           treasury stock purchased                                               (183)		 (254)		 (434)
           cash dividends paid                                                    (412)		 (398)		 (385)
           issuance of common stock for employee stock plans and other              75		 210 		 251
         net cash used for financing activities                                   (645)		 (316)		 (696)
         effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents               (1)		 (13)		 (19)
         net increase in cash and cash equivalents                                  17		    19 		    53
         cash and cash equivalents:
           beginning of year                                                       401		 382 		 329
           end of year                                                           $ 418   $ 401    $ 382
         supplemental cash flow information:
           interest paid                                      $ 78  $ 79   $ 104
           income taxes paid, net of refunds		 347		 323 		 236
         noncash financing activities:
           cash dividends declared and accrued, but not paid		 108		 104 		 99




50   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report

        report of independent registered
        public accounting firm on
        condensed financial statements


        the board of directors and stockholders of the clorox company

        we have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board (united states),
        the consolidated balance sheets of the clorox company at june 30, 2017 and 2016 and the related consolidated
        statements of earnings, comprehensive income , stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the
        period ended june 30, 2017 (not presented separately herein) and in our report dated august 15, 2017, we expressed
        an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. in our opinion, the information set forth in the
        accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements as of june 30, 2017 and 2016 and for each of the three
        years in the period ended june 30, 2017 (presented on pages 46 through 50) is fairly stated, in all material respects, in
        relation to the consolidated financial statements from which it has been derived.

        we also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the public company accounting oversight board
        (united states), the effectiveness of the clorox company’s internal control over financial reporting as of
        june 30, 2017, based on criteria established in internal control — integrated framework issued by the
        committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission (2013 framework), and our report
        dated august 15, 2017 (not presented separately herein).




        san francisco, ca
        august 15, 2017




g4-33                                                                                                                               51

                   report of independent
                   accountants on review
                   of nonfinancial information


                   the board of directors and stockholders of the clorox company

                   we have reviewed selected quantitative performance indicators (the “subject matter”) included in exhibit a and
                   as identified by the “ ” symbol presented in the clorox company’s (“clorox” or “the company”) annual report and
                   executive summary (the “reports”) for the year ended june 30, 2017 or otherwise noted, in accordance with the
                   criteria also set forth in exhibit a (the “criteria”). we did not review all information included in the reports. we
                   did not review the narrative sections of the reports, except where they incorporated the subject matter. clorox’s
                   management is responsible for the subject matter included in exhibit a and as also presented in the reports, in
                   accordance with the criteria. our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the subject matter based on our review.

                   our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the american institute of certified
                   public accountants. those standards require that we plan and perform our review to obtain limited assurance about
                   whether any material modifications should be made to the subject matter in order for it to be in accordance with
                   the criteria. a review consists principally of applying analytical procedures, making inquiries of persons responsible
                   for the subject matter, obtaining an understanding of the data management systems and processes used to generate,
                   aggregate and report the subject matter and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in
                   the circumstances. a review is substantially less in scope than an examination, the objective of which is to obtain
                   reasonable assurance about whether the subject matter, is in accordance with the criteria, in all material respects,
                   in order to express an opinion. accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. a review also does not provide
                   assurance that we became aware of all significant matters that would be disclosed in an examination. we believe
                   that our review provides a reasonable basis for our conclusion.

                   as described in exhibit a, the subject matter is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations
                   inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. the selection of different but acceptable
                   measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. the precision of different measurement
                   techniques may also vary.

                   based on our review, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the selected
                   quantitative performance indicators for the year ended june 30, 2017 or otherwise noted, in order for it to
                   be in accordance with the criteria.




                   san francisco, ca
                   september 22, 2017




52   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report                                                                                       g4-33

exhibit a: schedule of selected quantitative performance indicators — the clorox company

    indicator name            scope                                    unit                                   value 1                                            criteria
 scope 1, 2, and 3            global      percentage reduction of tco2e per stat case sold over                -18%       the world resources institute (“wri”) / world business council for
 greenhouse gas (ghg)                     baseline year (2011)7                                                           sustainable development’s (“wbcsd”) greenhouse gas (“ghg”) protocol
 emissions2, 3, 4, 5, 6                                                                                                   corporate accounting and reporting standard, the ghg protocol scope 2
                                                                                                                          guidance and the ghg protocol corporate value chain (scope 3) standard

 energy consumption,          global      percentage reduction of mwh per stat case sold over                  -15%       wri/wbcsd’s ghg protocol corporate accounting and reporting
 scope 1 and 22, 3, 4, 5                  baseline year (2011)7                                                           standard, the ghg protocol scope 2 guidance

 water                        global      percentage reduction of gallons of water consumed per                -21%       management’s criteria as follows: water consumption includes water at all
 consumption2, 4                          stat case sold over baseline year (2011)7                                       global manufacturing sites, offices and research development centers used
                                                                                                                          in 1) products sold to customers, 2) the manufacturing process, 3) irrigation
                                                                                                                          and 4) water consumed by employees during office hours for personal
                                                                                                                          needs (e.g., restrooms, break rooms). water sources include city/municipal,
                                                                                                                          well, lake, river and stormwater.

 sustainability               global      percentage of product portfolio                                       34%       management’s criteria as follows: there are four types of sustainability
 improvements to                                                                                                          improvement criteria that can be met either by fully meeting one or by
 product portfolio                                                                                                        partially meeting two or more: 1) a 5 percent or more reduction in product
 since january 20128                                                                                                      or packaging materials on a per-consumer-use basis; 2) an environmentally
                                                                                                                          beneficial change to 10 percent or more of packaging or active ingredients
                                                                                                                          on a per-consumer-use basis; 3) a 10 percent reduction in required usage
                                                                                                                          of water or energy by consumer; or 4) an environmentally beneficial sourcing
                                                                                                                          change to 20 percent or more of active ingredients or packaging on a
                                                                                                                          per-consumer-use basis.

 workforce                    see         percentage minority nonproduction employees in u.s.                   31%       osha regulation 1920.2(d) defines “employee” as an individual who is
 demographics/                right                                                                                       employed in a business of his employer which affects commerce. the
 diversity metrics9           for         percentage minority nonproduction managers in u.s.                    26%       equal employment opportunity commission defines “minority” as any
                              metric                                                                                      race that is not white (asian; black; latino; native american; native
                              scope       percentage female nonproduction employees globally                    50%       hawaiian; or two or more).
                                                                                                                          management’s criteria as follows: “manager” is defined as an “employee” at
                                          percentage female nonproduction managers globally                     41%       grade 27 or above for u.s. employees and grade 26 or above for international
                                                                                                                          employees with regards to clorox’s human resources (hr) compensation
                                          percentage female board of directors                                  33%       structure. “production employee” is defined as an employee at grade 19 or
                                                                                                                          below with regards to clorox’s hr compensation structure (international and
                                          percentage minority board of directors                                33%       u.s.). “nonproduction employee” is defined as an employee at grade 20 or
                                                                                                                          above with regards to clorox’s hr compensation structure (international and
                                          percentage female executive committee members                         36%       u.s.). in certain circumstances, nonproduction employees may be classified
                                                                                                                          below grade 20 based on type of work performed.

 u.s. product                   u.s.      fair market value of products donated in u.s. dollars                $5.4       management’s criteria as follows: u.s. product donations refer to those
 donations10                    only                                                                          million     donations used to aid in disaster relief or to support schools, food banks,
                                                                                                                          and other nonprofit organizations. fair market value is derived from
                                                                                                                          current year average truckload price of the product donated. truckload
                                                                                                                          prices are based on volume ordered and shipped.

 total recordable inci-       global      recordable incident rate (rir)                                        0.60      occupational health and safety administration (osha) regulation
 dent rate11                                                                                                              (standards – 29 cfr) part 1904 “recording and reporting occupational
                                                                                                                          injuries and illness”

 employee                     global      percentage of employee engagement                                     88%       management’s criteria as follows: engagement is defined as the intensity
 engagement score12                                                                                                       of employees’ connection to clorox, marked by committed effort to achieve
                                                                                                                          work goals (‘being engaged’) in environments that support productivity
                                                                                                                          (‘being enabled’) and maintain personal well-being (‘feeling energized’).

note 1: nonfinancial information is subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. the selection of
different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. the precision of different measurement techniques may also vary.
 1 all percentages are rounded to the nearest whole number in the annual report.
 2 for all locations where clorox maintains operational control and for the calendar year ended dec. 31, 2016.
 3	scope 1 emissions include direct energy used by clorox in its operations, categorized by stationary combustion, mobile combustion, refrigerant use, direct voc loss and direct wood pyrolysis. the last two
    sources relate mainly to clorox’s kingsford business unit, and wood pyrolysis is considered to be a mostly carbon neutral process; therefore, co2 emissions from wood pyrolysis are not included in total
    tco2e, but co2 equivalent emissions from ch4 and n2o are included. natural gas emissions, the largest scope 1 emission source, are calculated using factors from epa mandatory ghg reporting for
    stationary fuel sources (june 2017) and global warming potential (gwp) rates from the intergovernmental panel on climate change’s (ipcc) fourth assessment report.
 4	clorox’s natural gas, electricity and municipal water consumption data for u.s. sites are tracked by clorox’s third-party utility management company. other sources of energy and water consumption in
    the u.s. are tracked manually on a site-by-site basis and reported to clorox’s corporate team on an annual basis. for international sites, all energy and water consumption data is tracked manually and
    reported annually to clorox’s corporate team.
 5	scope 2 includes indirect emissions resulting from clorox’s purchased electricity use. it is calculated following the ghg protocol’s location-based method using the environmental protection agency’s
    (epa) 2014 egrid emission factors for u.s. locations and the energy information administration’s (eia) foreign electricity emission factors published in 2007 for international locations. clorox applies
    gwps from the ipcc’s fourth assessment report.
 6	scope 3 includes finished goods transportation in the u.s. only and global employee business travel. employee business travel includes emissions from commercial air flights and rental car use by clorox’s
    employees. commercial air flights are limited to business travel booked in the united states, united kingdom, hong kong, chile, mexico, peru and canada. mobile emission sources are calculated using
    emission factors from the epa climate leaders greenhouse gas inventory protocol core module guidance, published in 2008.
 7	a stat case is the number of cases sold or produced multiplied by a stat factor which normalizes case value between brands and provides a common denominator of the revenue generated by cases across
    various brands.
 8	once a product meets the sustainability improvement criteria, it is reported to the clorox eco team by each business unit and the sustainability improvement percentage is calculated for that product
    using its fiscal year net customer sales as a percentage of clorox’s total fiscal year net customer sales. the total sustainability improvements percentage represents the summation of all sustainability
    improvement percentages for products that met the criteria between jan. 1, 2012, and dec. 31, 2016.
 9 for the fiscal year ended june 30, 2017.
10 for the fiscal year ended june 30, 2017. u.s. product donations include donations made by any u.s. business unit.
11	recordable incident rate was determined as of july 20, 2017, for the fiscal year ended june 30, 2017. the recordable incident rate includes all reportable incidents that occurred at clorox facilities
    globally. it does not include labor hours associated with nine remote facilities that have fewer than 30 employees.
12	clorox adopts willis towers watson’s definition of employee engagement in terms of “sustainable” engagement. employee engagement is measured by a survey administered march 13, 2017, through
    march 31, 2017. 6,219 clorox employees responded to the survey.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                  53

             corporate governance
             guided by our core value of doing the right thing, clorox maintains rigorous corporate governance practices
             and internal controls, with oversight from the company’s board of directors as well as the chairman and chief
             executive officer, general counsel, chief financial officer and other members of the clorox executive committee.

             the clorox code of conduct details the ethical and legal standards of behavior and business practices that are
             required of all our directors, executives and employees around the world. all 8,100+ individuals must complete
             training and/or certify compliance with the code.

             we expect any organization that works with clorox to mirror our values and business practices regarding
             legal and regulatory compliance, product quality, safety, human rights and treatment of employees. before
             contracting with new business partners, we conduct a comprehensive assessment of capabilities, quality
             and safety standards, ethics and alignment with our strategy and core values to ensure they meet the ideals
             we’ve established for ourselves as a company.

             on an ongoing basis, we also require key business partners to adhere to our business partner code of
             conduct. this code outlines expected practices of direct suppliers of goods, service providers, consultants,
             distributors, licensees, joint ventures, contractors and temporary workers in the areas of human rights and
             labor, health and safety, the environment, and business conduct and ethics.




                                                       33%                                     33%            36%
                                                       of board are                            of board are   of clorox executive
                                                       women                                   minorities     committee are
                                                                                                              women
                                                                                                              all data as of june 30, 2017.




               reviewed by ernst & young llp. please refer to pages 52-53 for the review report.



54   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report                                                                            g4-34, g4-35, g4-36, g4-39, g4-so4

        board of directors
          the 2017 fiscal year brought changes to board                                     three new directors over the course of the year:
          leadership and membership. along with the appoint-                                dave mackay, who brings deep operational and
          ment of clorox ceo benno dorer to the role of                                     strategic experience in the consumer packaged
          chairman, pamela thomas-graham was named the                                      goods industry; amy banse, who has an extensive
          new independent lead director, making her one of                                  background in media, digital and telecommunica-
          only a select few minority women — approximately                                  tions; and russell weiner, an innovator in the digi-
          1 percent overall — serving as lead directors on                                  tal consumer experience.
          fortune 500 boards nationwide. we also added




       benno dorer1                                       pamela thomas-graham2               amy banse3                    richard h. carmona,
       chairman and                                       lead director of the board;         managing director and head    m.d., m.p.h., f.a.c.s.
       chief executive officer,                           former chief marketing and          of funds, comcast ventures    vice chairman,
       the clorox company                                 talent officer, credit suisse                                     canyon ranch; former
                                                          group ag                                                          u.s. surgeon general




       spencer c. fleischer                               esther lee                          david mackay4                 robert w. matschullat
       managing partner,                                  executive vice president —          retired president and         retired vice chairman
       ffl partners                                       global chief marketing              chief executive officer,      and chief financial officer,
                                                          officer, metlife inc.               kellogg company               the seagram company ltd.




       jeffrey noddle                                     carolyn m. ticknor                  russell j. weiner5            christopher j. williams
       retired executive                                  retired president,                  president, domino’s usa       chairman and chief executive
       chairman, supervalu inc.                           imaging & printing systems,                                       officer, the williams capital
                                                          hewlett-packard company                                           group l.p. and williams
                                                                                                                            capital management llc




    1 mr. dorer became chairman of the board of directors effective aug. 15, 2016.
    2 ms. thomas-graham was appointed lead director of the board effective aug. 15, 2016.
    3 ms. banse joined the board of directors effective sept. 15, 2016.
    4 mr. mackay joined the board of directors effective aug. 15, 2016.
    5 mr. weiner joined the board of directors effective feb. 6, 2017.




g4-34, g4-35, g4-36, g4-39, g4-so4                                                                                                                          55

             clorox executive committee
             the clorox executive committee expanded at the onset of the 2017 fiscal year with the appointment
             of two new people to senior leadership. now at 14 members, the management team brings a diverse set of
             experiences and backgrounds to clorox — some promoted from within the clorox ranks, others with valuable
             consumer packaged goods industry experience, and still others with deep experience in their area of expertise
             from the financial services, hospitality and tech sectors. additionally, women make up 36 percent of the cec,
             serving in the key roles of chief operating officer, general counsel, chief innovation officer and chief people
             officer. this leadership mix enables the company to provide the strategic direction necessary to succeed in a
             challenging business environment.




             standing from left to right:                                                                       seated from left to right:

             kirsten marriner                    linda rendle                     michael costello              laura stein
             senior vice president               senior vice president            senior vice president —       executive vice president —
             and chief people officer            and general manager —            international division        general counsel and
                                                 cleaning division                                              corporate affairs
             eric reynolds                                                        jon balousek
             senior vice president               william s. bailey                senior vice president and     dawn willoughby
             and chief marketing officer         senior vice president —          general manager — specialty   executive vice president
                                                 corporate business development   division                      and chief operating officer
             manjit singh
             senior vice president ­­and         james foster                     matt laszlo                   steve robb
             chief information officer           executive vice president —       senior vice president         executive vice president
                                                 product supply,                  and chief customer officer    and chief financial officer
             benno dorer                         enterprise performance and it
             chairman and
             chief executive officer             denise a. garner
                                                 senior vice president
                                                 and chief innovation officer




56   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report                                                                  g4-34, g4-35, g4-36, g4-39, g4-so4

                           corporate responsibility priorities
                           priorities and matrix
                           our corporate responsibility priorities are based on an exercise conducted in fiscal year 2016 to help us
                           focus our attention on the company’s most important issues. we are using the term “corporate responsibility
                           priorities” instead of “materiality topics” to avoid confusion with the term as it relates to key information that
                           can impact financial statements.

                           the priorities and accompanying matrix were developed with support from a third party, capturing key inputs
                           from the company’s 2020 strategy, which includes corporate responsibility commitments, as well as feedback
                           from employees and numerous external stakeholders.




                                          corporate responsibility priorities*
    higher




                                                                                                                                                                     transparency             governance and
                                                                                                                                                                 product impacts               accountability
                                                                                                                                                                         product innovation
    importance to external stakeholders




                                                                                                                                                                        packaging
                                                                                                                        risk and resilience                                          stakeholder engagement
                                                                                                                                                              supplier
                                                                                                                                           water             operations                         operational
                                                                                                                                                                                              environmental
                                                                                                                                                                                                     impact
                                                                                                                        material sourcing
                                                                                                                                                        responsible marketing employee well-being
                                                                                                                                                        and consumer           and development
                                                                                                                                                        engagement
                                                                   inclusion and diversity                                    climate change
                                                                                                          product beneﬁts




                                                                  philanthropy/cause programs
    high




                                          high                                                                    importance to business                                                              higher
                                          *demonstrates relative importance of topics with respect to each other and not a reﬂection of overall importance of topics.




g4-19, g4-20, g4-21, g4-24, g4-27, g4-28, g4-29, g4-30, g4-31, g4-32, g4-33                                                                                                                                     57

             about this report
              corporate responsibility priorities
              the clorox company’s integrated annual report presents the company’s financial and corporate responsibility
              performance for fiscal year 2017 as well as our goals for 2020. it highlights fiscal year financial performance in
              accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the u.s., which include principles for determining
              materiality related to financial reporting. also presented in this report is information about performance related
              to the company’s corporate responsibility priorities. key corporate responsibility priorities may include, but are
              not limited to, topics that could have a significant financial impact on the organization.

              review of nonfinancial information
              we believe voluntary assurance strengthens our reporting process and enhances the credibility of our
              nonfinancial information. we engage a third party to review the following nonfinancial key performance
              indicators: u.s. greenhouse gas emissions, u.s. energy consumption, global water consumption, product
              sustainability improvements, workforce demographics, recordable incident rate, employee engagement and
              u.s. product donations. items undergoing assurance are indicated with an throughout the report. we will
              continue to look for opportunities to provide external review of metrics that provide further insight into how
              we create value for all our stakeholders.

              using the global reporting initiative framework
              this year’s report has been developed according to the global reporting initiative’s g4 guidelines, in accordance
              with the “core” option, which provide a recommended framework and key performance indicators for sustainability
              reporting. more information on the g4 guidelines is available at globalreporting.org. the full list of gri disclosures
              we address can be found on pages 59-68 of this report and on our corporate website, thecloroxcompany.com.

              reporting against the ungc principles
              incorporated into the gri g4 content index is the communication on progress, an annual report describing
              the company’s actions in implementing the ten principles of the united nations global compact.

              reporting period and boundary
              most data in this report covers wholly and majority-owned operations for july 1, 2016, through june 30, 2017.
              in some instances, we have included data for a multiyear period to show year-over-year comparisons. data
              in this report for environmental sustainability and volunteer hours is for the period of jan. 1, 2016, through
              dec. 31, 2016, and is global unless otherwise stated.




58   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report                                                    g4-18, g4-23, g4-29, g4-30, g4-32, g4-33

gri g4 content index
general standard disclosures
general
standard                                           external          ungc
disclosures   page                                 assurance         principles                  description

strategy and analysis

g4-1          ceo letter, pages 2-5                                  ceo letter reinforces       ceo statement on sustainability
                                                                     clorox's commitment to
                                                                     the un global compact
                                                                     ten principles.

g4-2          2020 strategy overview and           see pages 52-53                               key impacts, risks, and opportunities
              progress, pages 18-35; 10-k:
              item 1.a. risk factors, pages 6-17

organizational profile

g4-3          the clorox company                                                                 name of organization

g4-4          2017 scorecard, pages 36-41;         see pages 52-53                               primary brands, products and services
              10-k: item: overview of
              business, pages 1-2

g4-5          2017 scorecard, pages 36-41          see pages 52-53                               location of organization’s headquarters

g4-6          2017 scorecard, pages 36-41          see pages 52-53                               number of countries where the organization
                                                                                                 operates, and countries with major operations
                                                                                                 or relevant to sustainability issues

g4-7          form 10-k cover                                                                    nature of ownership and legal form

g4-8          2017 scorecard, pages 36-41          see pages 52-53                               markets served

g4-9          2017 scorecard, pages 36-41          see pages 52-53                               scale of reporting organization

g4-10         2017 scorecard, pages 36-41          see pages 52-53                               employees by employment contract and gender
              clorox website:
              inclusion & diversity

g4-11         u.s.: 2%, international: 22.7%,                        principle 3                 percentage of employees covered by collective
              total company: 9.1%                                                                bargaining agreements

g4-12         clorox’s supply chain reflects the                     ungc ten principles —       description of supply chain
              company as a formulator (not a                         the clorox company
              chemical company) with a broad                         business partner code of
              portfolio of products. raw                             conduct includes our
              material inputs are quite varied.                      expectations of suppliers
              for more information go to:                            on business ethics,
              clorox website: sustainability in                      human rights, labor and
              our supply chain                                       environmental compli-
                                                                     ance and sustainability.

g4-13         there are no significant changes                                                   significant changes to size, structure,
              to size, structure and ownership                                                   or ownership
              during the reporting period.

g4-14         clorox website:                                        principle 7                 whether and how the precautionary approach
              what we’re made of                                                                 or principle is addressed

g4-15         cdp, ungc — see ceo letter,                            ungc ten principles         externally developed economic, environmental
              pages 2-5, iirc, aim progress                                                      and social charters, principles, or initiatives the
                                                                                                 organization subscribes or endorses

g4-16         clorox website:                                        ungc principles 7-9         association memberships
              stakeholder engagement                                 (see responsible
                                                                     sourcing information)


                                                                                                                                                       59

                                                   gri g4 content index


      general standard disclosures
       general
       standard                                         external    ungc
       disclosures       page                           assurance   principles             description
       identified material aspects and boundaries
       g4-17             10-k, part i, pages 1-3                                           entities included in consolidated financial
                                                                                           statements and if any are not in report

       g4-18             about this report, page 58                                        process to define report content and aspect
                                                                                           boundaries. how implemented defining report
                                                                                           content principles

       g4-19             corporate responsibility                   ungc principles 1-10   material aspects
                         priorities, page 57

       g4-20             corporate responsibility                                          material aspects within the organization
                         priorities, page 57

       g4-21             corporate responsibility                                          material aspects outside the organization
                         priorities, page 57

       g4-22             no restatements occurred                                          effect of restatements

       g4-23             about this report, page 58                                        significant changes from previous reporting
                                                                                           period
       stakeholder engagement
       g4-24             corporate responsibility                                          stakeholder groups engaged by the organization
                         priorities, page 57
                         clorox website:
                         stakeholder engagement

       g4-25             clorox website:                                                   how stakeholders are identified and selected
                         stakeholder engagement

       g4-26             clorox website:                                                   approaches to stakeholder engagement,
                         stakeholder engagement                                            including frequency of engagement by type
                                                                                           and by stakeholder group

       g4-27             corporate responsibility                                          key concerns raised through stakeholder
                         priorities, page 57                                               engagement, and how the organization
                                                                                           responded
                         clorox website:
                         stakeholder engagement
       report profile
       g4-28             about this report, page 58                                        reporting period

       g4-29             about this report, page 58                                        date of most recent report

       g4-30             about this report, page 58                                        reporting cycle

       g4-31             corporate.communications@                                         contact for sustainability report
                         clorox.com

       g4-32             about this report, page 58                                        gri content index

       g4-33             about this report, page 58                                        assurance
                         report of independent
                         registered accounting firm,
                         pages 51-52




60   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report

                                   gri g4 content index


general standard disclosures
general
standard                                        external    ungc
disclosures   page                              assurance   principles            description
governance
g4-34         corporate governance, pages                   ungc ten principles   governance structure
              54-56
              clorox website:
              governance guidelines

g4-35         corporate governance,                         principles 7-9        process for delegating authority
              pages 54-56
              clorox website: eco governance

g4-36         corporate governance,                                               whether organization appointed executive
              pages 54-56                                                         level position(s) with responsibility for
                                                                                  economic, environmental and social topics
                                                                                  and whether post holders report directly
                                                                                  to the highest governance body

g4-37         clorox website:                                                     consultation between stakeholders and the
              board of directors                                                  highest governance body on sustainability issues

g4-38         clorox website:                                                     details on composition of highest governance
              corporate governance                                                body and its committees

g4-39         corporate governance,                                               whether chair of highest governance body is
              pages 54-56                                                         also an executive officer

g4-40         clorox website:                                                     nomination and selection processes for highest
              ngcrc charter may 2017                                              governance body and its committees

g4-41         clorox website:                               principle 10          process for highest governance body to avoid
              governance guidelines                                               and manage conflicts of interest

g4-42         clorox website:                               ungc ten principles   highest governance body’s role in setting
              governance guidelines                                               purpose, values and strategy

g4-43         clorox website:                               ungc ten principles   process for enhancing highest governance
              governance guidelines                                               body’s competencies on economic,
                                                                                  environmental, and social issues

g4-44         clorox website:                               ungc ten principles   process for evaluating highest governance
              governance guidelines                                               body’s performance on economic,
                                                                                  environmental, social topics

g4-45         clorox website:                               ungc ten principles   highest governance body’s role in
              governance guidelines                                               risk management

g4-46         clorox website:                               ungc ten principles   highest governance body’s role in the
              governance guidelines                                               identification and management of
                                                                                  economic, environmental and social
                                                                                  impacts, risks and opportunities

g4-47         the clorox board of directors                 ungc ten principles   frequency of the highest governance body’s
              meets at least quarterly to                                         review of economic, environmental and social
              review key issues/opportunities                                     impacts, risks and opportunities
              impacting the company.

g4-48         clorox's ceo, cfo and general                                       highest committee or position that formally
              counsel approve our integrated                                      reviews and approves the organization’s
              report.                                                             sustainability report

g4-49         clorox website:                                                     process for communicating critical concerns
              governance guidelines                                               to the highest governance body




                                                                                                                                     61

                                                 gri g4 content index


      general standard disclosures
       general
       standard                                                external    ungc
       disclosures       page                                  assurance   principles     description
       g4-50             clorox board of directors regularly                              nature and total number of critical concerns
                         review and address a variety of                                  that were communicated to the highest
                         key issues/opportunities through                                 governance body and the mechanism(s)
                         quarterly updates, strategy                                      used to address and resolve them
                         meetings and separate committee
                         meetings. the company does
                         not disclose the total number
                         of concerns.

       g4-51             clorox website: sec filings                                      remuneration policies for the highest
                         2017 clorox proxy — see                                          governance body and senior executives
                         compensation discussion
                         and analysis, pages 29-58

       g4-52             clorox website: sec filings                                      process for determining remuneration
                         2017 clorox proxy — see
                         compensation discussion
                         and analysis, pages 29-58

       g4-53             clorox website: sec filings                                      how stakeholders’ views are sought and
                         2017 clorox proxy — see                                          taken into account regarding remuneration
                         compensation discussion
                         and analysis, pages 29-42

       g4-54             clorox does not disclose.                                        ratio of annual total compensation for the
                                                                                          organization’s highest paid individual in each
                                                                                          country of significant operations to the median
                                                                                          annual total compensation for all employees

       g4-55             clorox does not disclose.                                        ratio of percentage increase in annual total
                                                                                          compensation for the organization’s highest-
                                                                                          paid individual in each country of significant
                                                                                          operations to the median percentage increase
                                                                                          in annual total compensation for all employees
                                                                                          (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the
                                                                                          same country
       ethics and integrity
       g4-56             clorox website:                                   principle 10   organization’s values, principles, standards and
                         mission and values                                               norms of behavior such as codes of conduct
                                                                                          and codes of ethics

       g4-57             clorox website:                                   principle 10   internal and external mechanisms for seeking
                         codes of conduct                                                 advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and
                                                                                          organizational integrity

       g4-58             clorox website:                                   principle 10   internal and external mechanisms for reporting
                         codes of conduct                                                 concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior,
                                                                                          and organizational integrity




62   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report

                                     gri g4 content index


specific standard disclosures
specific
standard                                                          external    ungc
disclosures      page                                 omissions   assurance   principles       description

category: economic

material aspect: economic performance
g4-dma           ceo letter, pages 2-5                            see pages
                 2020 strategy, pages 18-35                       52-53
                 2017 scorecard, pages 37-41
                 10-k, pages 1-5

g4-ec1           2017 scorecard, pages 37-41                      see pages   principles 7-9   direct economic value generated
                                                                  52-53                        and distributed

g4-ec2           clorox website: ceo message —                                                 financial implications and other
                 sustainability commitment                                                     risks and opportunities for the
                                                                                               organization’s activities due to
                                                                                               climate change

g4-ec3           clorox website:                                                               coverage of the organization’s
                 employee benefits                                                             defined benefit plan obligations

category: environmental

material aspect: materials
g4-dma           2020 strategy overview
                 (good growth), page 18
                 strategy 4, fund growth,
                 cr highlights — shrink our
                 environmental footprint while
                 we grow, pages 30-35
                 clorox website: ceo message —
                 sustainability commitment

g4-en2           we do not currently report a total                           principles 7-9   percentage of materials used that
                 percentage of materials used that                                             are recycled input materials
                 are recycled input materials.
material aspect: energy
g4-dma           strategy 4, fund growth,                         see pages
                 cr highlights —                                  52-53
                 shrink our environmental
                 footprint while we grow,
                 page 32
                 clorox website: ceo message —
                 sustainability commitment

g4-en6           2017 scorecard, page 41;                         see pages                    reduction of energy consumption
                 progress update — energy,                        52-53
                 page 32
                 clorox website: energy
                 clorox website: ceo message —
                 sustainability commitment




                                                                                                                                   63

                                                                 gri g4 content index


      specific standard disclosures
       specific
       standard                                                                                                                  external    ungc
       disclosures       page                                                           omissions                                assurance   principles       description
       material aspect: water
       g4-dma            water, page 35;                                                                                         see pages   principles 7-9
                         clorox website: footprint                                                                               52-53
                         reduction: conserving water

       g4-en8            clorox website: footprint                                                                               see pages                    total water withdrawal by source
                         reduction: conserving water                                                                             52-53
                         water, page 35
                         2017 scorecard, page 41
       material aspect: emissions
       g4-dma            greenhouse gas emissions,                                                                               see pages                    habitats in areas affected
                         page 33;                                                                                                52-53                        by operations, by level of
                                                                                                                                                              extinction risk
                         clorox website: operations —
                         reducing ghg emissions
                         clorox website: ceo message —
                         sustainability commitment

       g4-en15           clorox website: operations —                                                                            see pages                    direct greenhouse gas (ghg)
                         reducing ghg emissions                                                                                  52-53                        emissions (scope 1)

       g4-en19           ghg emissions, page 33                                                                                  see pages                    reduction of greenhouse gas
                                                                                                                                 52-53                        (ghg) emissions
                         2017 scorecard, page 41
                         clorox website: operations —
                         reducing ghg emissions
       material aspect: effluents and waste
       g4-dma            waste, page 34                                                                                          see pages
                                                                                                                                 52-53
                         clorox website: footprint
                         reduction summary — waste
                         clorox website: ceo message —
                         sustainability commitment

       g4-en23           clorox website: footprint                                                                               see pages                    total weight of waste by type
                         reduction summary — waste                                                                               52-53                        and disposal method
                         waste, page 34
                         2017 scorecard, page 41
                         we report solid waste disposal,
                         not hazardous waste disposal. the
                         waste disposal method has been
                         determined based on information
                         provided by the waste disposal
                         contractor. each site reports
                         its annual reuse, recycling, and
                         disposal tonnages using informa-
                         tion obtained from its recycling
                         or waste disposal contractor to
                         our corporate office, where
                         it is reviewed and compiled.
                                                                    energy                   deep              on-site
                          materials   reuse    recycle   compost   recovery   incineration   well   landfill   storage   other
                          facility     tons     tons      tons      tons         tons        tons    tons       tons     tons
                                      17,765   23,963     467        410          25          —     7,703        —        —




64   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report

                                    gri g4 content index


specific standard disclosures
specific
standard                                                                           external    ungc
disclosures      page                                  omissions                   assurance   principles       description
material aspect: products and services
g4-dma           product sustainability                                            see pages   principles 7-9
                 improvements, page 24                                             52-53
                 clorox website:
                 environmental sustainability

g4-en27          product sustainability                                            see pages                    extent of impact mitigation
                 improvements, page 24                                             52-53                        of environmental impacts of
                                                                                                                products and services
                 clorox website:
                 environmental sustainability
                 we do not track energy reductions
                 achieved as a direct result of
                 conservation and efficiency
                 initiatives. we only track our
                 overall reductions in energy use.
material aspect: compliance
g4-dma           10-k, risk factors, page 14
g4-en29          10-k, risk factors, page 14                                                                    monetary value of significant
                                                                                                                fines and total number of
                                                                                                                non-monetary sanctions for
                                                                                                                non-compliance with environ-
                                                                                                                mental laws and regulations
material aspect: supplier environmental assessment
g4-dma           clorox website: sustainability in
                 our supply chain

g4-en32                                                clorox does not track                   principles 7-9   percentage of new suppliers
                                                       percentage of new                                        that were screened using
                                                       suppliers screened                                       environmental criteria
                                                       using environmental
                                                       data. the vast majority
                                                       of new suppliers are
                                                       informed/expected to
                                                       adhere to our environ-
                                                       mental commitments/
                                                       practices in our business
                                                       partner code of conduct.
                                                       clorox has a scorecard
                                                       tracking the environ-
                                                       mental practices of
                                                       our top 100 suppliers
                                                       (by spend).

g4-en33          the company assesses the                                                                       significant actual and potential
                 sustainability performance of its                                                              negative environmental impacts in
                 top 100 suppliers, which represents                                                            the supply chain and actions taken
                 approximately 70 percent of total
                 suppliers. 100 percent of new
                 suppliers must adhere to the
                 company's business partner
                 code of conduct, which addresses
                 sustainability expectations.
                 clorox website: supplier
                 environmental footprint scorecard


                                                                                                                                                     65

                                                 gri g4 content index


      specific standard disclosures
       specific
       standard                                                            external    ungc
       disclosures       page                                  omissions   assurance   principles   description

       category: social

       sub-category: labor practices and decent work
       material aspect: employment
       g4-dma            engage our people, page 20

                         clorox website: codes of conduct

       g4-la2            clorox website: employee                                                   benefits provided to full-time
                         benefits overview — 2017                                                   employees that are not provided
                                                                                                    to temporary or part-time
                                                                                                    employees, by significant
                                                                                                    locations of operation
       material aspect: occupational health and safety
       g4-dma            engage our people — workplace                     see pages
                         safety, page 20; 2017 scorecard,                  52-53
                         pages 36-41
                         clorox website: workplace safety

       g4-la6            workplace safety, pages 20-21                     see pages                type of injury and rates of injury,
                                                                           52-53                    occupational diseases, lost days,
                         clorox website: workplace safety
                                                                                                    and absenteeism, and total
                         we track the rir & ltir* (lost time                                        number of work-related fatalities,
                         incident rate) for clorox employees                                        by region and by gender
                         plus supervised workers. ltir is
                         reported internally on a monthly
                         basis.
                         we follow osha 1904 rules for
                         defining injuries as “reportable”
                         and labor hours to track. the
                         rate calculation is that used by
                         the bureau of labor statistics
                         (bls) and osha for comparison
                         across industries.
       material aspect: training and education
       g4-dma            clorox website: codes of conduct

       g4-la10           the company’s mylearnings                                                  programs for skills management
                         program offers extensive internal                                          and lifelong learning that support
                         and external courses to support                                            the continued employability of
                         professional development,                                                  employees and assist them in
                         capability- and leadership-building                                        managing career endings
                         needs; ceo letter, pages 2-5;
                         engage our people, page 20




66   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report

                                    gri g4 content index


specific standard disclosures
specific
standard                                                           external    ungc
disclosures      page                                  omissions   assurance   principles       description
material aspect: diversity and equal opportunity
g4-dma           engage our people — diversity,                    see pages   principle 6
                 pages 20-21                                       52-53
                 2017 scorecard, pages 36-41
                 clorox website:
                 inclusion and diversity

g4-la12          2017 scorecard, pages 37, 40                      see pages                    composition of governance bodies
                                                                   52-53                        and breakdown of employees per
                                                                                                employee category according to
                                                                                                gender, age group, minority group
                                                                                                membership, and other indicators
                                                                                                of diversity
material aspect: supplier assessment for labor practices
g4-dma           clorox website: sustainability                                principles 1-6
                 in our supply chain
                 business partner code of conduct

g4-la14          100 percent of all suppliers must                                              percentage of new suppliers
                 adhere to our business partner                                                 that were screened using labor
                 code of conduct, which addresses                                               practices criteria
                 labor practices:
                 business partner code of conduct
                 supply chains act disclosure
                 we do not track percentage of
                 new suppliers screened using
                 labor practices criteria. the vast
                 majority of new suppliers are
                 informed and expected to adhere
                 to our human rights and labor
                 commitments through contract
                 language requiring adherence to
                 our bp code of conduct. in the
                 absence of a contract, there
                 are other mechanisms to ensure
                 compliance with labor practices
                 criteria for significant purchases.
sub-category: human rights
material aspect: non-discrimination
g4-dma           clorox website:                                               principle 6
                 inclusion and diversity

g4-hr3           clorox website: codes of conduct                                               total number of incidents of
                                                                                                discrimination and corrective
                                                                                                actions taken




                                                                                                                                    67

                                                 gri g4 content index


      specific standard disclosures
       specific
       standard                                                              external    ungc
       disclosures       page                                    omissions   assurance   principles       description
       material aspect: child labor
       g4-dma            clorox website: codes of conduct                                principles 1-5

       g4-hr5            suppliers must comply with clorox’s                             principles 1-5   operations and suppliers identified
                         policy on employment of young                                                    as having significant risk for
                         persons where the minimum age                                                    incidents of child labor, and
                         of employment shall not be less                                                  measures taken to contribute
                         than the greater of: (a) the age of                                              to the effective abolition of
                         completion of compulsory school-                                                 child labor
                         ing or (b) 15 years of age (or 14,
                         where the local law of the country
                         permits). additionally, workers
                         under the age of 18 should not
                         perform any hazardous work.
       material aspect: forced or compulsory labor
       g4-dma            clorox website: codes of conduct

       g4-hr6            clorox website: codes of conduct                                                 operations and suppliers identified
                                                                                                          as having significant risk for
                         suppliers are engaged through
                                                                                                          incidents of forced or compulsory
                         our business partner code of
                                                                                                          labor, and measures to contribute
                         conduct and must not use forced,
                                                                                                          to the elimination of all forms of
                         bonded, or indentured labor or
                                                                                                          forced or compulsory labor
                         prison labor. clorox has started a
                         review of its supply base to have
                         the majority of suppliers again
                         either self-certify to the clorox
                         business partner code of conduct,
                         or it will evaluate the supplier’s
                         own code of conduct and public
                         commitments to ensure alignment
                         with the commitments of the clorox
                         code, including elimination of all
                         forms of forced or compulsory labor.
                         the company’s global strategic
                         sourcing organization has prioritized
                         an objective of implementing a
                         full supplier risk assessment and
                         mitigation tool during fiscal year
                         2017. this would be expected to
                         consider manufacturing type of
                         operation and countries/geographies
                         of operation when considering
                         and scoring supplier risk level.
       material aspect: assessment
       g4-dma            clorox website: codes of conduct

       g4-hr9            none of our operations have been                                                 total number and percentage
                         subject to human rights reviews/                                                 of operations that have been
                         assessments.                                                                     subject to human rights reviews
                                                                                                          or impact assessments




68   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report

                                     gri g4 content index


specific standard disclosures
specific
standard                                                                             external    ungc
disclosures      page                                    omissions                   assurance   principles       description
sub-category: society
material aspect: local communities
g4-dma           2017 scorecard, pages 36-41                                         see pages
                                                                                     52-53
                 clorox website: social impact

g4-so1           safeguard families with our                                                                      percentage of operations with
                 be healthy, be smart and                                                                         implemented local community
                 be safe initiatives                                                                              engagement, impact assessments,
                 community support, pages 27-28                                                                   and development programs
                 clorox website: social impact
material aspect: anti-corruption
g4-dma           clorox website: codes of conduct

g4-so4           100 percent of the company’s            currently unavailable:      see pages   principle 10     communication and training
                 leaders and employees must go           the company does not        52-53                        on anti-corruption policies
                 through anti-corruption training.       disclose incidents in its                                and procedures
                 100 percent of the company’s            current report.
                 suppliers must adhere to the
                 business partner code of
                 conduct, which addresses
                 ethical business practices.
                 corporate governance, page 54
sub-category: product responsibility
material aspect: customer health & safety
g4-dma           clorox website:                                                                 principles 7-9
                 what we’re made of

g4-pr1           clorox website:                                                                 principles 7-9   percentage of significant product
                 what we’re made of                                                                               and service categories for which
                                                                                                                  health and safety impacts are
                 the company assesses 100 percent
                                                                                                                  assessed for improvement
                 of its products for human and
                 environmental safety.
material aspect: product and service labeling
g4-dma           all company products have the
                 required labeling for safety and
                 usage. the company also voluntarily
                 discloses the product ingredients
                 used in its cleaning and disinfecting
                 products in the u.s. and canada.
                 www.ingredientsinside.com

g4-pr3           100 percent of company products                                                                  type of product and service
                 are subject to safety, caution and                                                               information required by the
                 usage labeling.                                                                                  organization’s procedures for
                                                                                                                  product and service information
                 www.ingredientsinside.com
                                                                                                                  and labeling, and percentage of
                 product safety at clorox                                                                         significant product and service
                                                                                                                  categories subject to such
                                                                                                                  information requirements




                                                                                                                                                      69

                                                 gri g4 content index


      specific standard disclosures
       specific
       standard                                                              external    ungc
       disclosures       page                                    omissions   assurance   principles       description
       g4-pr5            clorox is consistently ranked high                                               results of surveys measuring
                         for customer satisfaction by the                                                 customer satisfaction
                         american customer satisfaction
                         index
       material aspect: marketing communications
       g4-dma            clorox website:
                         innovation and marketing

       g4-pr6            the company does not sell                                                        sale of banned or disputed
                         products that are banned in                                                      products
                         certain markets. clorox regularly
                         responds to questions about its
                         products — either via email,
                         in-person meetings or by phone.

       g4-pr7            clorox website:                                                                  total number of incidents of
                         all about innovation                                                             non-compliance with regulations
                                                                                                          and voluntary codes concerning
                         we did not have any incidents of                                                 marketing communications,
                         noncompliance with regulations                                                   including advertising, promotion,
                         or voluntary codes with respect                                                  and sponsorship, by type of
                         to marketing communications.                                                     outcomes
       material aspect: customer privacy
       g4-dma            clorox website: privacy policy

       g4-pr8            the company has not identified                                  principles 7-9   total number of substantiated
                         any complaints related to this                                                   complaints regarding breaches
                         matter.                                                                          of customer privacy and losses
                                                                                                          of customer data
       material aspect: compliance
       g4-dma            clorox website:
                         what we’re made of

       g4-pr9            we stand by dispatch® hospital                                                   monetary value of significant
                         cleaner disinfectant with bleach’s                                               fines for non-compliance with
                         effectiveness against disease-causing                                            laws and regulations concerning
                         pathogens when used as directed.                                                 the provision and use of products
                         while we strongly disagree with                                                  and services
                         epa’s findings related to the
                         effectiveness claim against the
                         mycobacterium bovis pathogen
                         (tuberculosis bacteria), we decided
                         to settle the matter versus spending
                         additional resources on disputing
                         this issue.




70   the clorox company 2017 integrated annual report

stockholder information
stock listing and number of record holders                         • the company’s annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year
                                                                      ended june 30, 2017, is available at thecloroxcompany.com
the clorox company’s common stock is listed on the new york
                                                                      and through the sec’s edgar database.
stock exchange, identified by the symbol clx. as of july 28,
2017, the number of record holders of clorox’s common stock
                                                                   forward-looking statements
was 10,736.
                                                                   except for historical information, matters discussed in the annual
transfer agent, registrar and dividend                             report are forward-looking statements and are based on
disbursing agent                                                   management’s estimates, assumptions and projections. actual
                                                                   results could vary materially. please review the “risk factors” and
inquiries relating to stockholder records, change of ownership,
                                                                   “management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition
change of address and the dividend reinvestment/direct stock
                                                                   and results of operations” sections in the company’s annual
purchase plan should be sent to:
                                                                   report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended june 30, 2017,
computershare                                                      and subsequent sec filings, for factors that could affect the
p.o. box 30170                                                     company’s performance and cause results to differ materially
college station, tx 77842-3170                                     from management’s expectations. the information in this report
overnight correspondence should be sent to:                        reflected management’s estimates, assumptions and projections
computershare                                                      as of aug.15, 2017. clorox has not made updates since then and
211 quality circle, suite 210                                      makes no representation, express or implied, that the information
college station, tx 77845                                          is still current or complete. the company is under no obligation
                                                                   to update any part of this document.
877-373-6374 or 781-575-2726
tdd 800-952-9245 or 312-588-4110 for hearing impaired
                                                                   comparative stock performance
computershare.com/investor
                                                                   the graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder
stockholder information service                                    return of the common stock for the last five fiscal years with
                                                                   the cumulative total return of the standard & poor’s 500 stock
the latest company news is available at thecloroxcompany.com.      index and a composite index composed of the standard & poor’s
                                                                   household products index and the standard & poor’s housewares
dividend reinvestment/                                             & specialties index (referred to below as the peer group) for a
direct stock purchase plan                                         five-year period ending june 30, 2017.
clorox has authorized computershare to offer a dividend
reinvestment/direct stock purchase plan. registered stockholders   the composite index is weighted based on market capitalization
can purchase additional shares. nonstockholders may join the       as of the end of each quarter during each of the last five years.
plan with an initial investment, lump sum or bank debit. most      the graph lines merely connect the prices on the dates indicated
fees are paid by clorox.                                           and do not reflect fluctuations between those dates.
for more information or plan materials, visit thecloroxcompany.
com > investors > investor resources > online document             comparison of five-year cumulative total return*
library or contact computershare (see above).                                among the clorox company, the s&p 500 index and a peer group


management report on internal                                          250
                                                                                        clorox: $212.51

control over financial reporting                                                        s&p 500: $197.92
                                                                                        peer group: $173.84
                                                                       200
clorox management, under the supervision and with the
participation of the chief executive officer and chief financial       150
officer, has assessed the effectiveness of the company’s
internal control over financial reporting as of june 30, 2017,         100
and concluded that it is effective. for more information, see
item 9.a. of the company’s form 10-k for the fiscal year                 50
ended june 30, 2017.
                                                                           0
                                                                                 2012         2013         2014        2015         2016         2017
2017 financial information
                                                                   *$100 invested on 6/30/12 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends.
full financial statements are provided in the company’s 2017         fiscal year ending june 30.
proxy statement. detailed financial information is available        copyright© 2017 standard & poor’s, a division of s&p global. all rights reserved.
without charge through the following sources:
• the company’s proxy statement is available at
   thecloroxcompany.com.

         the clorox company
  1221 broadway, oakland, ca 94612
        thecloroxcompany.com
read the 2017 integrated annual report:
  annualreport.thecloroxcompany.com
