town of dartmouth
sustainability report




                        1

                     welcome
                     we are pleased to share our 2015 sustainability
                     report, which represents our commitment to
                     sustainability and evaluates our progress over the
                     years.

                     town administrator david g. cressman addresses dartmouth’s approach
                     to sustainability (g4-1).


                     the town of dartmouth realizes that sustainability must be a major focus
david g. cressman
                     of its policies, programs, and services. in 2015, the town made significant
town administrator
                     progress in our sustainability journey. harnessing solar energy has been
                     continuous, impactful driver as dartmouth is the largest solar-producing
                     community throughout the commonwealth of massachusetts (ma) in
                     2015. this was bolstered by the addition of our eighth solar farm by the
                     end of the year. we have successfully worked closely with solar
                     companies to offset our total electric energy costs through renewable
                     forms of energy. more importantly, dartmouth saw substantial growth in
                     solar installations on residential and commercial properties as the number
                     of permitted solar installations grew from 355 in 2014 to 725 in 2015.

                     the town of dartmouth has continued our recycling program, smart
                     (save money and reduce trash), in hopes of making recycling easier for
                     all residents and business owners, and further improving and protecting
                     the beauty of our town. this has resulted in an approximately 105%
                     increase in the curbside recycling collection of glass, cans, and plastics,
                     and a significant improvement in program participation rates since 2007.

                     in order to thrive as a sustainable community, the town of dartmouth has
                     positively impacted the economy, environment, and society by measuring
                     and implementing change. highlights include a reduction in personal
                     injury claims and the expansion of sustainable markets such as the
                     southcoast behavioral health center. other notable achievements include
                     the development of dartmouth’s first aquaculture project to clean our
                     waters and the addition of six electric vehicles to our municipal fleet.

                     we have been working toward being more financially independent; cash
                     reserves have more than doubled from 2008 pre-recession totals, and our
                     bond rating has also risen in recent years to aaa from s&p. we have
                     made a point to hire locally whenever possible, further encouraging our
                     community to work collaboratively towards our goals.



                                                                                                   i

while 2016 will bring many more challenges and surprises, i am pleased
to bring you the town of dartmouth, ma 2015 sustainability report,
highlighting many of our achievements during the past year. i look
forward to your feedback and to working together to further improve our
community.


sincerely,




david g. cressman




for more information, please contact the dartmouth town hall at: (508)
910-1813.




                                                                          ii

acknowledgements & authorship
the authors of this report would like to thank members of the town of
dartmouth, massachusetts, as well as students from the university of
massachusetts dartmouth, who helped in the creation of the 2015
dartmouth sustainability report. in particular, the help of town
administrator, david cressman, and the students of the net impact
organization was instrumental in preparing this report.
this report was researched and partially authored by dartmouth’s energy
manager, shawn luz, and administrative analyst, james perry, alongside
the students of the university of massachusetts dartmouth’s (umass
dartmouth) chapter of net impact of the charlton college of business. it
was completed utilizing the significant work of previous umass
dartmouth students as a strong foundation as well as with the assistance of
current student researchers who volunteered to process this report,
determine scope and materiality of information, and research the covered
information.
as a result of setbacks due to staff changes at the university of
massachusetts dartmouth that impacted the net impact program, this
report was finished in august of 2016. this report does not necessarily
express the official views and positions of the employees of the town of
dartmouth, those otherwise associated with the town of dartmouth, or
those associated with umass dartmouth.
this report was guided by the global reporting initiative (gri) g4
sustainability reporting standard. for more information, on the gri and
on specific indicators, please visit the gri website:
https://www.globalreporting.org. for any comments, questions, or
concerns, please contact shawn luz at sluz@town.dartmouth.ma.us or the
select board at selectboard@town.dartmouth.ma.us.




                                                                           iii

special thanks
the town of dartmouth would like to thank the net impact organization
and the university of massachusetts dartmouth for their past assistance in
preparing this report as well as for the assistance of current students that
participated in research efforts.
umass dartmouth net impact students

   caitlyn pisarski
   jesse minghella
   ashley deoliveira
town of dartmouth employees

   christine amaral, confidential administrative clerk
   donna fernandes, town accountant
   susan dorschied, administrative clerk
   gregory barnes, treasurer/director of budget & finance
   randall kay, payroll administrator
   joseph roche, select board administrative analyst
   carlos cardoso, former water pollution control manager
   michael arnold, water pollution control manager
   paul pacheco, superintendent of services & infrastructure
   david cressman, town administrator
   michael courville, mis director
   steven sullivan, water & sewer division superintendent
   tricia anthony, water & sewer division administrative clerk
   jennifer frates, former dpw administrative assistant
   david hickox, director of the department of public works
   laurie wilkins, dartmouth schools accounts payable/payroll
   bob szala, dartmouth chief of police
   shannon lyonnais, administrative assistant to police chief bob szala
   melissa medeiros, personnel administrator
   paul murphy, director of inspectional services
   steve melo, harbormaster
   michael o’reilly, environmental affairs coordinator
   linda torres, confidential licensing aide
   deborah melino-wender, director of development/grants
   scott alfonse, executive director of the greater new bedford
    regional refuse management district
   brittany doherty, previous administrative analyst
   evan melillo, previous administrative analyst
   john long, previous energy manager


                                                                          iv

key definitions
sustainability:
meeting the needs of the present without compromising the ability of
future generations to meet their own needs; as defined by the united
nations (www.un.org/en/sustainability).
sustainable development:
operating the organization with a focus on environmentally sensitive
practices that will preserve scarce resources and maintain a healthy
community now and in the future (www.un.org/en/sustainability).
corporate social responsibility (csr):
the socially responsible activities of for-profit organizations which,
sometimes, are intended to develop profits. csr goes beyond
philanthropy and compliance and addresses how organizations manage
their economic, social, and environmental impacts, as well as their
relationships in all key spheres of influence: the workplace, the
marketplace, the supply chain, the community, and the public policy
realm.
global reporting initiative (gri):
the world’s most widely-used sustainability reporting standard. gri was
founded in boston in 1997, and holds roots in us non-profit
organizations, such as the coalition for environmentally responsible
economies and the tellus institute. this standard is used by a majority of
the global fortune 250 companies, and thousands of organizations across
the globe (www.globalreporting.org).
g4 gri standard:
g4 is gri’s fourth generation of sustainability reporting guidelines.
new generations of guidelines are part of gri’s commitment to the
continuous development and improvement of its framework. g4 takes into
account the material items, items of importance, of the reporting
organization.
sustainability report:
a sustainability report is an organizational report focusing primarily on
the three pillars of sustainable development, as outlined by the general
assembly of the united nations (un), and the impacts these areas have
on the reporting entity and its stakeholders. the three pillars of
sustainable development are as follows: economic, environmental, and
societal. these pillars were created so that they are in alignment with one
                                                                             v

another as to create balance. the three pillars are meant as a reference
and tool to be used as a guiding principle for long-term global
development (united nations 2015).

many companies and organizations use sustainability reporting as a
means of transparently communicating indicators, covering these areas, to
stakeholders. additional sections contained within sustainability reports
may include governance and stakeholder engagement, among others. in
recent years, an increasing number of municipalities have produced
sustainability reports. the town of dartmouth was one of the first
municipalities in the u.s. to cover these three pillars in sustainability
reporting to the highest level of gri accordance in 2012.




                                                                           vi

g4 standard index
general standard disclosures
reference             summary description                        page(s)
strategy & analysis
g4-1                  statement from the senior-decision maker   i - ii
                                                                 1 - 3, 7 - 12,
g4-2                  key impacts
                                                                 42 -45
organizational profile
g4-3              name of organization                           3, 4
g4-4              primary brands, products, and services         3, 50
g4-5              location of organization’s headquarters        4, 7
g4-6              organizational span                            4
g4-7              nature of ownership                            4
g4-8              markets served                                 7
g4-9              organization scale                             16, 17
g4-10             employee & workforce composition               21, 22, 45
                      employees covered under collective
g4-11                 bargaining agreements
                                                                 47
g4-12                 organization supply chain                  50
                      organizational changes relating to size,
g4-13                 structure, ownership, or supply chain
                                                                 10
g4-14                 organizational precautionary approach      10
                      externally developed economic,
g4-15                 environmental, initiatives subscribed to
                                                                 10-11
g4-16                 membership associations                    10
identified materials aspects and boudnaries
g4-17               consolidated financial statements            17 - 20
                      defining report content and
g4-18                 implementation of reporting principles
                                                                 3, 10 - 11
g4-19                 material aspects identified                11
g4-20                 description of material aspects            11
g4-21                 aspect boundaries of material aspects      11
g4-22                 information restatements                   10
g4-23                 changes to scope and aspect boundaries     11
stakeholder engagement
                      stakeholder groups engaged by the
g4-24                 organization
                                                                 11
g4-25                 basis for identification of stakeholders   11
                      organization’s approach to stakeholder
g4-26                 engagement
                                                                 2
                      key topics and concerns raised through
g4-27                 stakeholder engagement
                                                                 2

report profile
g4-28                 reporting period                           12
g4-29                 date of previous report                    12
g4-30                 reporting cycle                            12
g4-31                 report contact                             12
g4-32                 gri reporting option declaration           11
g4-33                 policy for external assurance              11



                                                                           vii

governance
g4-34              governance structure                         16
                   executive with responsibility for
g4-36              economic and social topics
                                                                13
                   composition of the highest governance
g4-38              body and its committees
                                                                14 - 16

ethics and integrity
                   measures taken to develop and enhance
                   the highest governance body’s knowledge
g4-43              of economic, environmental, and social
                                                                12
                   topics
                   highest position or committee reviewing
g4-48              sustainability report
                                                                12
                   process for communicating critical
g4-49              concerns
                                                                12 - 13
                   total number of critical concerns
g4-50              communicated to highest governance           12
                   body
g4-52              process for determining remuneration         22, 49
                   organizational values, principles,
g4-56              standards and norms of behavior
                                                                10

disclosures on management approach
                   discussion of material aspects and
g4-dma             management approach
                                                                8 - 12




specific standard disclosures

economic
economic performance
                   direct economic value generated and
g4-ec1                                                          17, 26
                   distributed
                   financial implications and other risks and
g4-ec2                                                          24, 28, 31
                   opportunities of climate change
                   coverage of the organization’s defined
g4-ec3                                                          17
                   benefit plan obligations
                   financial assistance received from
g4-ec4                                                          19 - 20
                   government
market presence
                   ratios of standard entry wage by gender
g4-ec5                                                          21 - 22
                   compared to local minimum wage
indirect economic impacts
                   significant indirect economic impacts,
g4-ec8                                                          21, 24
                   including the extent of impacts




                                                                          viii

environment
energy
                    percentage of materials used that are
g4-en2                                                            43
                    recycled inputs
                    energy consumption within the
g4-en3                                                            28, 32 - 35
                    organization
g4-en6              reduction of energy consumption               32 - 35
water
g4-en8              total water withdrawal by source              35
                    water sources significantly affected by
g4-en9                                                            35 - 37
                    withdrawal of water
                    percentage and total volume of water
g4-en10                                                           41
                    recycled and reused

biodiversity
                    operational sites in proximity of protected
g4-en11                                                           27, 37
                    areas and areas of high biodiversity
                    significant impacts of activities on
g4-en12             biodiversity in protected areas and areas     37 - 38
                    of high biodiversity
g4-en13             habitats protected or restored                37 - 40
                    total number of iucn red list species and
g4-en14             national conservation list species with       39 - 40
                    habitats in affected areas of operation
effluents and waste
                    total water discharge by quality and
g4-en22                                                           41
                    destination
products and services
                    extent of impact of mitigation of
g4-en27             environmental impacts of products and         25, 42, 43
                    services
compliance
                    significant fines and total number of non-
g4-en29             monetary sanctions for non-compliance         37
                    with environmental laws
overall
                    total environmental protection
g4-en31                                                           37-38
                    expenditures and investments by type


social
labor practices and decent work
employment
g4-la2              benefits provided to full-time employees      46
occupational health and safety
                    percentage of total workforce
g4-la5              represented in formal joint management-       47
                    worker health and safety committees
                    health and safety topics covered in
g4-la8                                                            47
                    formal agreements with trade unions

                                                                            ix

training and education
                     average hours of training per employee
g4-la9                                                           48
                     by gender
                     programs for skills management and
g4-la10              lifelong learning that support the          48 - 49
                     continued employability of employees
                     percentage of employees receiving
g4-la11              regular performance and career              49
                     development reviews
diversity and equal opportunity
                     composition of governance bodies and
g4-la12              breakdown of employees per employee         49
                     categories
equal remuneration for men and women
                     ratio of basic salary and remuneration of
g4-la13                                                          21, 49
                     women to men by employee category
supplier assessment for labor practices
                     percentage of new suppliers that were
g4-la14                                                          49 - 50
                     screened using labor practices criteria


human rights
investment
                     total hours of employee training on
g4-hr2               human rights policies or procedures         48
                     concerning aspects of human rights
security practices
                     percentage of security personnel trained
g4-hr7               in the organization’s human rights          47 - 48
                     policies or procedures


society
anti-corruption
                     total number and percentage of
g4-so3               operations assessed for risks related to    44, 48
                     corruption
                     communication and training on anti-
g4-so4                                                           48
                     corruption policies and procedures

product responsibility
customer privacy
                     total number of substantiated complaints
g4-pr8               regarding breaches of customer privacy      50
                     and losses of customer data
compliance
                     monetary value of significant fines for
                     non-compliance with laws and
g4-pr9                                                           50
                     regulations concerning provision and use
                     of products




                                                                           x

highlights in 2015
“in order to thrive as a sustainable community, the
 town of dartmouth has positively impacted the
 economy, environment, and society by measuring
 and implementing change”
by and large, the town of dartmouth has improved in regards to
sustainability efforts in just the past year. with two solar projects alone,
borrego landfill and emi energy park, the town contributed to
economic sustainability by saving approximately half a million dollars in
utilizing solar over traditional energies, environmental sustainability by
using 20% less pollutant-energy, and societal sustainability by investing in
reliable energy production.

this should be of no surprise considering that the town of dartmouth not
only abides by the gri sustainability standards in terms of public
reporting, but also year after year works and strives to achieve utile dulci,
which means" service though kindness and peaceful means”.


the 2015 dartmouth, massachusetts sustainability report includes
information about town achievements such as

             achieving an aaa s&p rating for the 3rd consecutive year
             raising municipal free cash by 9.6% compared to fy 2014
             continuing construction of new affordable housing facilities
             implementing dartmouth’s first aquaculture project
           completing the 8th solar farm in dartmouth
           increasing the recycling of glass, plastics, and cans by 105%
            relative to 2007
           continuing work on biodiversity projects
           maintaining a high level of smart program participation
           offsetting 100% of total electric energy costs through
            renewable energy
           beginning work on several energy efficiency projects
            throughout town facilities




                                                                            1

about this report
we have been reporting on economic, environmental, and
societal impacts since 2012 through our annual gri
report. we are committed to transparent reporting to
increase awareness to our stakeholders.
why we report
as with many governmental institutions, the town of dartmouth plays a key role
in the local community. at the core of the institution, municipal leaders and their
respective departments are responsible every day for fulfilling their commitments
to local residents and businesses in addition to those of state and national
governmental bodies. in the inherent division of responsibilities that helps to
define the many departments that comprise the town of dartmouth, each
component of the municipal government engages with different and often
intersecting groups of stakeholders regarding a wealth of topics and concerns over
the course of a year (g4-27). the mission statements and goals that guide each of
these departments in fulfilling their duties can be found posted on the town’s
website: http://www.town.dartmouth.ma.us/departments (g4-26).

in light of the complex relationship that the town of dartmouth shares with its
stakeholders, it believes that transparency in economic, environmental, and social
factors is important to the health of these groups and organizations as well as to
this institution itself. through this transparent communication, the town is now
engaging in its fourth consecutive year producing a sustainability report as a way
of further promoting sustainable practices to its stakeholders.

yearly sustainability reports also assist the town by creating a platform for
measuring and evaluating plan implementation while showcasing achievements
made by the town’s employees as well as it residents and businesses.

the 2012 sustainability report was recognized to be one of the first produced by
a municipality in the united states and to comply – in the highest level of
accordance (a level) – with the then-current gri (global reporting initiative)
g3.1 reporting standard. one of the goals of the initial report was to enhance
involvement regarding the triple bottom line approach. in order to manage,
change, and measure performance, the town of dartmouth has completed two
following reports, the 2013 sustainability report and the 2014 sustainability
report according to the gri g4 standard.

a successful report according to the g4 standard takes into account the gri
standards, along with the understanding of aspects material to the town of
dartmouth. these material aspects contain information regarding valuable
sustainability metrics that matter most to our stakeholders, including those

                                                                                   2

relating to economic, environmental, and social considerations. our goal is to
continue to use the g4 standard as a guideline and as a transformative tool to
improve and grow our relationship with stakeholders and the local community
(g4-18).

why sustainability reporting is important

   communicates to residents, businesses, and other communities what
    dartmouth is doing to be sustainable, environmentally friendly, and sensitive;
   encourages business and residential development in the community;
   encourages further municipal, residential, and business sustainable practices
    and initiatives;
   demonstrates the benefits of sustainability and the competitive advantage that
    it provides;
   encourages further recycling and alternative energy programs;
   boosts dartmouth’s proactive and sustainable brand;
   improves and mitigates the impact of business development and residential
    resource usage;
   contributes to protecting the environment;
   provides an environment for future generations to build upon past sustainable
    practices and initiatives;
   works towards creating measurable improvements in town sustainability,
    year over year; and
   inspires and shapes local sustainability education curriculum.

town profile

name of organization
town of dartmouth (g4-3)
primary products, brands, and services
except for the supply of water, the town of dartmouth provides an array of
services but does not serve as a producer of physical goods. similarly, the town
of dartmouth, as a municipality by nature, does not manufacture boards,
committees, commissions, councils, and other entities associated with the town
hall (g4-4).
committees & commissions                            boards & councils
   agricultural commission                            select board
   agricultural preservation trust council            board of appeals
   alternative energy committee                       board of assessors
   by-laws review committee                           board of health
   capital improvement planning committee             board of library trustees
   charter review committee                           board of parks & recreation

                                                                                 3

   community preservation committee                 board of public works
   conservation committee                           board of registrar of voters
   dartmouth housing authority                      council on aging
   disability & accessibility commission            cultural council
   elderly & disabled taxation aid                  planning board
    committee                                        soil conservation board
   emergency management agency                      veterans advisory board
   finance committee
   greater new bedford regional refuse
   health insurance advisory committee
   historical commission
   industrial development commission
   lincoln park plan approval authority
   pathways committee
   police building committee
   school committee
   sister city delegation committee
   waterways management committee
   youth commission

location of the organization’s headquarters
the registered office of the town of dartmouth is located at 400 slocum road,
dartmouth, massachusetts, 02747, usa.
the town of dartmouth is located in southeastern massachusetts, at 41.61 ⁰ n,
70.98 ⁰ w (www.topzone.com) and is bordered by westport to the west,
freetown and fall river to the north, buzzards bay to the south, and new
bedford to the east. located within the borders of dartmouth are five villages:
hixville, bliss corner, padanaram, smith mills, and russells mills. the physical
location of dartmouth spans a total 63.95 square miles, with land amassing 61.82
square miles and water amassing 2.13 square miles (www.town.dartmouth.ma.us).
the population of dartmouth is 30,461 (2015 dartmouth town report), giving
dartmouth a population density of approximately 492 persons per square mile.
(g4-6).
introduction to dartmouth, massachusetts
introduction (g4-3): one of the oldest towns in the entire commonwealth,
dartmouth was first settled in 1652 and was incorporated as a town in 1664 (g4-
7). the town dartmouth is located in southeastern massachusetts, in the county
of bristol (www.town. dartmouth.ma.us). as previously indicated, it is bordered
by fall river and freetown to the north, new bedford to the east, westport to
the west and the atlantic ocean to the south (g4-5). dartmouth is approximately
60 miles south of boston and 30 miles east of providence. it is comprised of a


                                                                                4

land mass of almost 64 square miles, making it the fifth largest town in the
commonwealth of massachusetts.

dartmouth consists of a scenic coastline that borders buzzard's bay and numerous
coastal estuaries, including the slocum river, little river, apponagansett river,
and clark's cove. the northern part of dartmouth is a historic rural environment
comprised of scenic forest lands, with residential homes nestled within the area.
dartmouth is also home to umass dartmouth, a four-year educational institution
with numerous colleges of study, and the university of massachusetts school of
law. the commercial district comprises a good cross-section of local and
nationally recognized businesses, and serves as a regional shopping area.

the town of dartmouth is traversed by massachusetts state highway route 6
and by u.s. interstate 195 to the north. dartmouth has a variety of activities and
environments for its residents and visitors to enjoy. the coastal environment
south of dartmouth is bordered by a significant number of large agricultural farms
that that inhabit swathes of land rolling to the ocean's edge. the coastline has a
number of town and state beaches for public recreation. significant efforts have
been undertaken to preserve the land’s rural and agricultural character. northern
dartmouth contains the town forest and other important land holdings.

demographics

the following tables depict the demographics and structure of population for the
town of dartmouth, using the latest available statistics from websites of the
municipality, state, and federal government as well as from other organizations:

                                     dartmouth quick facts
demographic item                          absolute                            population %
population                                30,461 (2015)                       100%
labor force                               17,441 (2015)                       60.6%
unemployment                              875 (2015)                          4.8%
median age                                39.5 (2010)
total households                          11,237 (2010)
average household size                    2.54 (2010)
average family size                       3.01 (2010)
per capita income                         $30,578 (2014)
median household income                   $68,684 (2014)

         labor force and unemployment statistics derived from dlsgateway.dor.state.ma.us (municipal databank);
         age, household, family, and income statistics derived from srpedd.org;
         population statistic from 2015 dartmouth town report.




                                                                                                                 5

population structure
sourced from srpedd’s dartmouth community quickstats (fall 2015), u.s. census
bureau surveys, and the 2015 dartmouth town report:

                                    age structure (2010)
2010 census category                         population
19 and under                                 8,196
20-34                                        7,099
35-54                                        9,011
55-84                                        8,739
85 and over                                  987



                                    race structure (2010)
2010 census category                         population percentage
white/caucasian                              92%
black/african american                       2.6%
american indian/alaska native                0.2%
asian                                        1.9%
pacific islander (e.g., native hawaiian)     0.2%
other                                        0.1%
two or more races                            1.8%



                          hispanic ethnicity structure (2010)
2010 census category                         population percentage
hispanic                                     2.4%
white alone, not hispanic or latino          90.5%



                                  political affiliation (2015)
party                    population          raw population percentage
republican               2063                6.8%
democrat                 7535                24.7%
libertarian              47                  0.1%
green-rainbow            20                  > 0.1%
other                    92                  0.3%
unenrolled               11,401              37.4%



                           educational attainment (2010-2014)
level                                         population percentage
bachelor’s degree or higher, % of person      28.6%
aged 25+
high school graduate or higher, % of          80.5%
persons aged 25+

                                                                                6

other relevant information includes the fact that the town’s educational
attainment level is in line with the national exceptions. according to the 2010
u.s. census, dartmouth has slightly higher rates of post-high school education
compared to the national average. in addition, the number of registered voters is
currently 22,893 according to the town’s website.
town administration

the dartmouth town hall is located at 400 slocum road, north dartmouth, ma,
02747, between route 6 and russells mills road. dartmouth is home to the
individuals in the highest authoritative positions working for the town (g4-5).
located in the town hall is the office of the town administrator, where david
g. cressman has held this position since october 4, 2009.




though many businesses located in the town of dartmouth are owned and
operated by dartmouth citizens, these businesses are also owned by citizens of the
commonwealth of massachusetts, serving and benefitting those living not only in
town, surrounding towns and cities, and massachusetts, but also individuals
throughout the world (g4-8).
economic, environmental and social charters,
principles, and other initiatives
growth in sustainable markets

from changes in how waste is handled to the efficient consolidation of services,
the town of dartmouth remains a site of a thriving sustainable market, or a
market in which sustainable practices create new and novel job opportunities,
transactions, products, consumer savings, etc. (g4-2).




                                                                                    7

sustainable business

perhaps due to the town’s sustainable goals, dartmouth’s sustainable market has
continued to thrive. this claim is derived from several recent additions to
dartmouth’s marketplace emphasizing sustainable practices including sustainable
medical services, commercial spaces, and newly required coastal products.
opened in 2006, the hawthorne medical center of dartmouth has embarked on a
$33 million building construction project so as to be able to offer almost any
service a resident might need in one place. since 2006, the center has offered
such medical services as urgent care, pediatrics, family medicine, obstetrics,
gynecology, cardiology, and ultrasound technologies. this ‘one-stop shop’
business design allows efficient use of space and reduced consumer travel as well
as land waste. its 126,700-square-foot facility has grown to 300,000 square feet at
completion as a result of the incorporation of yet additional services, such as
specialty services in women’s care (g4-2). utilizing the modern concept of
marketplace sharing, the dartmouth grange continues to be available to
dartmouth residents. this commercial kitchen opens its doors to the public for
efficient use of space and facilitates community values. dartmouth appears to be
leading the ‘end of ownership’ economy in which sustainability rests on sharing
(see uber cars, airbnb hotels, kickstarter and lending club financial services,
spotify music services, linux, and drupal software development services for
examples) markets by encouragement of local sustainable services.

recent developments in sustainability

in spring 2015, the town of dartmouth enacted the act of aquaculture permit.
the permit is designed to not only protect the longstanding dartmouth – and
massachusetts south coast – commercial shellfish market, but also to protect and
enhance shellfish resources. not intended to limit existing commercial and
recreational shellfisheries, licenses are issued to protect local water resources.
local experts partnering with the project expect licenses will allow the town to
monitor and promote environmental sustainability. some local scientists and
fisherman have been working to also grow oysters, as part of the dartmouth
aquaculture project, in an effort to improve water quality.

by the end of the year, the town saw the completion of its first aquaculture
license process with the installation of oyster seed stock floating in cages in the
outer harbor. this private business venture, by padanaram oyster farm, saw
thousands of seed being planted in early spring, and astonishingly growing to full
market size in only one growing season. these oysters are marketed as
padanaram oysters, and have received gastro-critical acclaim from restaurants
across the country. the remarkable rate of growth highlights the added benefit of
waterway cleansing done by growing oysters. in fact, each adult oyster is
reportedly capable of filtering out harmful impurities such as nitrogen, algae and
other harmful pollutants in a quantity of up to 50 gallons of seawater daily.



                                                                                      8

the harbormaster is collaborating with the lloyd center for environmental
studies, the nautical science department of tabor academy, and padanaram
oyster farm in planning a 2016 season project. this project is designed to
measure the growth potential of species within the slocum river and little river.

another way the town will see additional sustainable activities to the local
market is the new leadership of round the bend farm of south dartmouth.
previously owned by the marion institute – an institute with a global and national
reach in developing projects targeting solutions for health and healing,
sustainability, green economics, and environmental education – the farm was
purchased by the bromley charity trust as of january 2015 at which time the
former marion institute executive director, desa van laarhoven, stepped down
to serve the farm under bromley’s mission. the farm is active in conferences
featuring sustainable practices and its mission revolves around sustainable
agriculture. as such, the farm also utilizes its 40 acres for education, teaching its
visitors about these sustainable practices and agricultural methods. thus, not only
does the farm provide sustainable products to dartmouth’s marketplace, but also
works to spread and encourage sustainable knowledge. (g4-2)

finally, and perhaps most notably novel in terms of sustainable practice, is
massachusetts’ contribution to dartmouth renewable energy productions. as a
result of a local mandate banning food waste being transferred to the town of
dartmouth landfill, the patrick-murray administration awarded the new bedford
regional refuse management district and commonwealth $400,000 in grants.
this grant award is intended to develop a pilot program for the anaerobic
digestion of local food, fats, oil, grease, and sewage sludge waste. because such
refuse would typically be transferred to the dartmouth landfill, the town of
dartmouth is able to gain from this pilot plant by way of renewable energies. the
pilot plant produces electricity through the anaerobic transformation of gas-to-
energy so that the on-site facility could offer such sustainable energy to nearby
consumers. the pilot project operated successfully during 2015 and accepted
source separated organic waste. in fy 2015, the anaerobic digester produced
21,316 mmbtus of biogas to supplement the 265,598 mmbtus of biogas
produced by the landfill directly.

job opportunities by way of a sustainable market

in coordination with the growth of dartmouth’s sustainable market, the town has
also created job opportunities that are heavily tied to sustainability. the following
is a list containing just a few examples of municipal positions considered an
outgrowth of the town’s mission to maintain sustainable operations (g4-2):




                                                                                    9

      administrative analyst (sustainability reporter)
      recycling coordinator
      energy manager

ethics, disclosures, and sustainable reporting approach

the predominant mission of the town of dartmouth is to provide the
infrastructure, resources, and services to support economic, societal, and
environmental prosperity of its citizens. to achieve this primary goal,
departments that comprise dartmouth’s municipal government operate according
to specific mission statements and responsibilities (g4-56).

to further integrate the town into the local, national, and international governing
framework, the town of dartmouth is a member of associations and organizations
that work to benefit intersecting groups of stakeholder. for example, dartmouth
has been a longtime member of the southeastern regional planning & economic
development district (srpedd) that works to plan for “the region’s land use,
transportation, economy, and environment while assisting member cities and
towns to operate more efficiently”. more information about srpedd can be
found at http://www.srpedd.org/about-srpedd (g4-16).

the town of dartmouth evaluates itself using a variety of tools including
standard & poor’s rating services, financial service reviews and comparison to
other municipalities, independent auditors, dartstat evaluations, and through
the gri standards for use in sustainability reporting (g4-15). the town of
dartmouth utilizes this information both to evaluate its past performance in
working towards sustainability goals as well as to plan for the future. where data
is unavailable to inform the decision-making process, town officials traditionally
employ a precautionary approach that considers the social, environmental, and
economic impacts of various outcomes to determine what is best for the
community (g4-14).

in order to determine priorities and the scope and boundary of this report, senior
municipal administrators and umass dartmouth students worked together to
research and consult the gri-g4 guidelines.

report content is defined as the most currently available data from the town of
dartmouth, the websites of the commonwealth of massachusetts and the u.s.
federal government, and websites containing both news coverage and language
related to a specific indicator (g4-18).

note: except for the transfer of a storage facility from the water & sewer
division of the dpw to the department of parks and recreation, there have been
no significant organizational changes, or restatements of any information relative
to the 2014 town of dartmouth sustainability report (g4-13, g4-22).


                                                                                     10

material aspects and boundaries

dartmouth senior town administrators, dartmouth’s energy manager, and
umass dartmouth net impact chapter students met and were in communication,
performed research, and consulted the gri g4 guidelines to compile the contents
of this report (g4-18, g4-19, g4-33).




this was to develop and ensure the process and priorities by which this 2015
town of dartmouth sustainability report was defined. furthermore, these
processes and priorities include, but are not limited to, the boundary and scope of
any information contained within this report as well as material aspects, or items
of material importance (g4-15). while the authors do not state that this report is
in strict accordance with the gri g4 standard, this report does contain standard
disclosures from the gri sustainability reporting guidelines and follows the
gri content index for the core standard disclosures (g4-32). in keeping the
structure established by previous sustainability reports completed by the new
impact program, no significant changes have been made to the scope and aspect
boundaries. (g4-23, g4-20, g4-21)

stakeholder engagement

the town of dartmouth has identified stakeholders impacted by its actions as
those who have citizenship, own a business, live, attend school, or work within
the physical boundaries of the town of dartmouth as well as visitors, businesses,
and governmental entities outside of dartmouth that work in coordination with
the town (g4-25).
stakeholder groups engaged by the organization are as follows (g4-24):
   businesses                         taxpayers
   citizens                           tourists
   civil society                      trade unions
   customers                          local communities
   employees                          shareholders and providers of capital
   students                           suppliers




                                                                                 11

management approach to sustainable reporting
all reported indicators use the latest information made available by the town of
dartmouth, massachusetts or by the commonwealth of massachusetts for the
given period (g4-28). the town of dartmouth reports as an annual exercise,
according to fiscal year information or calendar year information depending on
information availability (g4-30). where information for the fiscal year is not
available, calendar year information or more recent information is utilized and
noted (g4-28). the date of the most recent town of dartmouth sustainability
report was in december of 2014, titled, the town of dartmouth 2014
sustainability report (g4-29). questions regarding the report and its contents can
be addressed to the dartmouth’s energy manager at sluz@town.dartmouth.ma.us
or to the select board at selectboard@town.dartmouth.ma.us (g4-31).
the umass dartmouth students and the town of dartmouth officials compiling
the contents of this report relied on the data and information supplied by
employees of the town, along with data and information made available through
the town of dartmouth and commonwealth of massachusetts websites.
the management approach taken by the town of dartmouth follows the laws,
regulations, and policies established by the commonwealth of massachusetts and
the by-laws of the town of dartmouth. management topics include goals and
performance, municipal responsibility, training and awareness, as well as
monitoring and follow-up and are established by key municipal leaders, elected
officials, and other top officials employed by the town of dartmouth.
the town of dartmouth works in collaboration with businesses, citizens, and
other entities to make decisions regarding these topics (g4-43). the town
administrator is the highest position within the organization of the town of
dartmouth that reviews and approves the annual sustainability report (g4-48).
this position works closely alongside the select board and other departments in
the municipal government to stay on top of critical concerns regarding economic,
environmental, and social topics. concerns from residents and businesses are also
communicated to the town administrator via email, social media, newspaper
articles, letters, phone calls, and face-to-face interaction (g4-49).
the number of critical concerns is difficult to effectively track, however, town
departments and the town administration collectively work to quickly and
effectively resolve concerns addressed throughout the fiscal year (g4-50).




                                                                                   12

organizational and report profile
the information contained in this and following sections reviews how the report
process and priorities were defined, how stakeholders were selected, what
                                             services the town provides, as well
                                             as general information about the
                                             town of dartmouth, and more.
                                             as one of the single highest-level
                                             executives in the town, david
                                             cressman, town administrator, is
                                             ultimately responsible for economic,
                                             environmental, and social concerns
                                             impacting the town of dartmouth
                                             (g4-36).
                                                the governance structure of
                                                dartmouth is specified in the town
    image: historic apponagansett meeting house
                                                charter and consists of a
representative town meeting with 390 representatives who are elected in 3-year
staggered terms.
the town of dartmouth is governed by a town charter, approved by voters in
2000. the charter grants legislative powers to a representative town meeting
and holds that the administration of all fiscal, prudential, and municipal affairs
shall be vested in an executive branch headed by a select board. the charter is
clear in its division of powers. however, as the charter continues into article 3,
it adds representatives and bodies such as the:
      cemetery commission,
      board of health,
      board of library trustees,
      board of park commissioners,
      town clerk, and
      town agent.
further in the charter is a requirement for a:
      department of budget and finance,
      department of the town administrator, and the
      department of public works which is managed by a board of public
       works appointed by the select board.
in addition to those listed, the town has numerous other boards, commissions,
and committees. some of these are created by state statue, such as the
conservation commission. some of these are created by by-laws, such as the

                                                                                 13

zoning board of appeals and waterways commission. finally, some of these are
created by the select board, such as the dartmouth disability and accessibility
committee (g4-38). the roles and responsibilities of several of these groups are
outlined in the proceeding sections (www.town.dartmouth.ma.us).
select board
the select board is made up of five officials elected by town voters. this board
is responsible for many of the town operations and functions and serves as the
primary group to which many other town committees, commissions, and
departments report.
the members of the select board are:
       stanley m. mickelson, chairman, 2017             shawn d. mcdonald, 2019
       frank s. gracie iii, vice-chairman, 2018         john p. haran, 2019
       kelli martin taglianetti, 2018

town administrator

the town administrator is appointed by the select board and is the chief
administrative officer of the town. this officer prepares the agenda for the
select board’s meetings. he/she serves as a liaison to the select board, and holds
various supervisory functions. the town administrator serves as the select
board’s contact person with departments under their control. this individual
represents the select board in relations with elected boards and officials, state
agencies, and the public. the current town administrator is david g. cressman.

planning board

the planning board offers extensive information about the town of dartmouth to
its residents as well as visitors and businesses wishing to locate in the town. the
planning board is responsible for reviewing and approving all subdivisions of
land as well as parking lots for commercial development. additionally, the
planning board sends reports and recommendations on board of appeals
petitions, conservation commission applications, zoning changes, and street
acceptances/discontinuances. as part of interdepartmental cooperation, the
planning board provides technical assistance and written recommendations to
many town departments and boards. finally, the planning board is charged with
planning the future of the town through zoning and comprehensive plans.
the members of the planning board are:
        joel avila, chairman, 2017                          john v. sousa, 2018
        joseph e. toomey, jr., vice-chairman, 2019          kevin melo, 2020
        lorri-ann miller, clerk, 2021



                                                                                    14

board of health
the board of health's mission is to foster a healthy community by working to
protect the community from environmental hazards, to prevent the spread of
disease, and to assure safe water, a safe and healthy food supply, clean air, and
acceptable housing. the board of health strives to promote and educate for the
adoption of healthy behaviors as well as to develop and implement reasonable
regulatory guidance to assure these goals.

the members of the board of health are:
        thomas w. hardman, chairman, 2017
        lynne brodeur, vice-chairman, 2019
        lesile e. j. mckinley, member, 2018


youth commission
the dartmouth youth commission is a youth and family service agency that
provides support, referral, counseling, and resources to residents of the town of
dartmouth. the dartmouth youth commission began in 1968 as a collective
response to the community for the growing needs of the town's youth. the youth
commission is comprised of seven residents who set policy and guide the work of
its youth advocate, jen cabral. the youth commission’s objectives are to:

          1. meet the needs of dartmouth’s young people and families who are at
          risk from either their own dangerous behavior or by the abuse of others;
          2. to provide assessment, intervention, and counseling to children and
          teens at risk; and
          3. provide information and referral services to teens, their parents, the
          public, schools, police, juvenile court, and other appropriate human
          service providers.


members of the youth commission are:

       gale schultz, chair, 2016                  renee leite, 2017
       debra brejcha, vice chairperson, 2017      rosalyn glaser, 2016
       daniel cook, 2018                          teresa m. hamm, 2018
       jamie jacquart, 2016




                                                                                      15

     structure of dartmouth’s municipal government

     by of the end of the 2015 calendar year, 1,309 salaried public employees worked
     for the town of dartmouth in 36 departments. employees serve in an array of
     vital positions that substantiate the municipal government’s ability to provide
     important services to the community. specific salary information can be found at
     http://www.southcoasttoday.com/dartmouth_salaries_2015. (g4-9)
     the following charts demonstrate that the select board holds the highest
     organizational bandwidth within the administrative structure of dartmouth (g4-
     34). although the town administrator is on the same bandwidth as other
     positions, such as the police chief and harbormaster, the town administrator is
     the highest position held by an individual in the town. various committees are
     responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental, and social impacts
     such as the finance committee, conservation committee, and the youth
     commission. the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental,
     and social topics is based the specific responsibilities conferred to departments,
     committees, boards, and voters through the town’s by-laws (g4-35).




                                        town of dartmouth municipal flowchart
                                                                             town voters



                                board of                                  parks & recreation
       library trustees                                town clerk                                   select board       board of health         planning board
                                assessors                                     cemetery
                                                                             commission

                                  administrator of                                                                            public health
             library director                                                  parks & recreation                                                  planning director
                                    assessing                                                                                   director
                                                                                   cemetery
                                                                                superintendent

                                                                                                       select board


  youth                           waterways                             town                           conservation        council on         board of        zoning board
                harbormaster                         police chief
commission                        commission                         administrator                      committee            aging          public works       of appeals


     youth           assistant                 director of budget       director of      director of      coordinator of                       public works        principle
                                                                                        inspectional      environmental      coa director
    advocate       harbormaster                    & finance           development                                                               director            clerk
                                                   treasurer                              services            affairs

                                                                                                                                                supervisor
                                                     administrator                                                                             water & sewer
                                                      of assessing


                                                         town
                                                      accountant


                                                     tax collector



                                                      mis director




                                                                                                                                                                       16

                                   economy




                   source: http://www.borregosolar.com/commercial-solar-systems/dartmouth-landfill

municipal government
as a fundamental component of the local economy, the town of dartmouth
strives to have a positive economic impact on its stakeholders through its
procurement of goods and services, its interactions with businesses and the
workforce, as well as its commitment to sound fiscal policy. the following
information in this section is intended to not only illustrate the economic
dimension of dartmouth’s municipal government, which is inherently tied to the
economic condition and decisions of its stakeholders, but to also elucidate how
the municipal government impacts these stakeholders across local, state, and
national economic levels. data on economic indicators such as the town’s
operating budget, fiscal year revenue, tax rates, employment figures, wage rates,
benefits, and the financial implications due to climate change are utilized to
convey these basic connections. it should be noted that figures included in this
section are collected from a variety of sources that, due to various accounting and
other financial methods and procedures, may not be entirely consistent across
similar publications.
direct economic value, or the total revenue, generated by the town of dartmouth
was expected to be $93,787,697 in fy 2015 with a majority of this sum projected
to accrue from tax levies (g4-9). total salaries and wages during fy 2015 were
$48,739,290.25; in addition to this amount, $11,913,694 was approved to cover
the employee benefits offered to town workers (g4-ec3). to add to that,
$2,855,994 in fy 2015 was approved to support community services available to
town residents (g4-ec1). complete financial information can be found on the
town’s website and through the dartstat program that is made available by the
dartmouth select board office (g4-17).



                                                                                               17

the table below indicates that local receipts are projected to be more than 20% of
the total revenue generated for the fiscal year. in fy 2015, local receipts
generated $2,794,339 more revenue than initially estimated. in addition to tax
levies, state aid, and local receipts, other available sources of aid are expected to
account for 7.5% of the town’s total revenue.
                         fy 2015 revenue by source

revenue source          amount         % of total
■ tax levy            $53,527,195        57.07
■ state aid           $14,215,734        15.16
■ local receipts      $18,992,744        20.25
■ other available      $7,052,024         7.52
  total               $93,787,697
                                                      data: dls reports – revenue by source

in the last several years, dartmouth has continued to increase its free cash
reserves. according to the massachusetts division of local services (dls),
dartmouth’s free cash reserves have gone from under $2 million in fy 2007 to
$4,567,248 in fy 2015. this can be attributed to dartmouth’s town
administrator, who has made free cash reserves and financial discipline a high
priority. dartmouth’s levels of fiscal year free cash reserves dating back to fy
2007 can be found in the table below.
                      annual free cash by fiscal year

    fy         amount          $5,000,000
   2007       $1,748,012       $4,500,000
   2008       $1,698,902       $4,000,000
   2009       $2,084,260       $3,500,000
                               $3,000,000
   2010       $3,722,573       $2,500,000
   2011       $2,149,762       $2,000,000
   2012       $3,054,508       $1,500,000
   2013       $4,348,132       $1,000,000
   2014       $4,165,223        $500,000
   2015       $4,567,248               $0



                                                     data: dls reports – certified free cash

dartmouth holds high scores with bond rating companies because of its consistent
payments, reliability, and its financial health. since standard and poor’s (s&p)
began rating dartmouth in 2009, it has improved its high level aa score to an
aaa:




                                                                                         18

              historical standard and poor’s bond ratings
    year         2009     2010     2011      2012        2013        2014        2015
   rating        aa        aa       aa        aa         aaa         aaa         aaa
                                                           data: dls reports – bond ratings

the amount of taxes paid is determined by the appropriations voted by the town
of dartmouth. the town adopts a budget that reflects what services will be
provided and the cost to provide those services. after the dartmouth town
meeting adopts a budget, the amount of taxes to be raised is calculated in
accordance with proposition 2 ½ and divided by the total taxable valuation of the
town of dartmouth in order to determine the projected single tax rate. the board
of selectmen holds a public hearing to determine whether and how much
residential tax will be transferred with regards to the commercial properties. this
is commonly referred to as the split tax rate, i.e. commercial properties pay a
higher tax rate than residential properties. all the information is forwarded to the
department of revenue for its review and approval. the tax rates are then
finalized to raise the needed dollars to pay for the services that the town of
dartmouth voted to approve. the following is the tax classification based on this
information:
                    fy 2015 tax classification summary
       tax
                        assessed values         tax levy                  tax rate
 classification
   residential          $4,161,832,225        $40,827,574                     9.81%
   open space                  $0                  $0                          0
  commercial             $618,296,450          $9,243,673                   15.03%
    industrial            $76,205,625          $1,145,371                   15.03%
personal property        $154,450,330          $2,310,577                   14.96%
      total             $5,010,784,630        $53,527,195

                                                data: dls reports – property tax information

the cherry sheet is the official notification by the commissioner of revenue to
municipalities and school districts of estimated state aid to be paid and charges to
be assessed over the next fiscal year. as the state budget process unfolds, updated
local aid proposals are posted. cherry sheets are issued once the state budget is
enacted by the legislature and approved by the governor. the town of
dartmouth has received grants from the federal government for projects such as
the salt marsh restoration project, public safety, improved technological
advances for public education, and community and infrastructure development.
the town of dartmouth, on a formulaic basis, receives annual aid from the state
government; the amounts received within the past four fiscal years are depicted in
the proceeding chart (g4-ec4).

                                                                                         19

                           fy 2015 net state aid

 $11,700,000
 $11,600,000                              estimated cherry sheet aid
 $11,500,000
 $11,400,000
                                          education aid                    $9,348,842
 $11,300,000                              general government               $3,116,800
 $11,200,000
 $11,100,000                              total receipts                   $12,465,642
 $11,000,000
 $10,900,000
                                          total assessments                $873,774
 $10,800,000                              net state aid                    $11,591,868
                fy   fy   fy   fy
               2012 2013 2014 2015                   data: dls reports – net state aid


in addition, the budgets for fy 2015 and fy 2016 can be found below. the
proposed fy 2016 budget was $2,300,545 higher than the actual budget for fy
2015. nevertheless, the percentage shares of various recipient categories
remained consistent between the fiscal years.
                                                                   1.15%    5.90%
actual fy 2015 fiscal year budget                    15.75%                         8.63%
■ general government    $4,460,677
■ public safety         $6,527,814            6.43%
■ schools               $41,116,706
■ public works          $3,055,122           3.77%
■ community service     $2,855,994
■ debt service          $4,866,589            4.04%
■ employee benefits     $11,913,694
■ property &            $869,573                                                    54.34%
  liability insurance
  grand total           $75,666,169
                                                                    1.15%    6.47%
proposed fy 2016 fiscal year budget
                                                      14.74%                         9.05%
■ general government      $5,042,846
■ public safety           $7,058,797            6.10%
■ schools                 $43,035,143
■ public works            $3,145,390         3.26%
■ community service       $2,541,470
                                              4.03%
■ debt service            $4,758,645
■ employee benefits       $11,490,046
■ property &              $894,377                                                   55.20%
 liability insurance
 grand total              $77,966,714        data:
                                             dartmouth town report 2015
                                             dartmouth fy 2016 town budget




                                                                                         20

local economy
industry & employment
dartmouth is home to a variety of different employers from both the private and
public sectors. according to massachusetts’ department of labor and workforce
development, the town has 1,063 major establishments employing 16,729
citizens as of 2015. the vast majority of those residents are employed in retail,
educational services, food services, and health care. the proceeding table depicts
2015 employment statistics, including the size of the labor force, the number of
employed individuals, the number of unemployed individuals, the unemployment
rate in the area, and the state unemployment rate (g4-ec8).

                   2015 dartmouth employment statistics
      month     labor force     employed       unemployed         area rate        state rate
    january     18,548          17,317         1,231             6.6%             5.8%
    february    18,470          17,276         1,194             6.5%             5.5%
    march       18,447          17,338         1,109             6%               5.2%
    april       18,342          17,439         903               4.9%             4.7%
    may         18,395          17,491         904               4.9%             4.9%
    june        18,682          17,655         1,027             5.5%             5.2%
    july        18,602          17,578         1,024             5.5%             5.2%
    august      18,475          17,560         915               5%               4.7%
    september   18,269          17,335         934               5.1%             4.9%
    october     18,374          17,512         862               4.7%             4.5%
    november    18,391          17,494         897               4.9%             4.5%
    december    18,533          17,595         938               5.1%             4.6%
    annual      18,461          17,466         995               5.4%             5%
                                                     data: http://www.mass.gov/lwd/economic-data/
wages
dartmouth’s municipal workforce is not compensated based on wages subject to
minimum wage rules except for a few part-time temporary positions. instead,
dartmouth provides wages for entry-level positions well beyond the required
minimum wage by both state and federal laws.
salaries of various town positions, including professional and non-professional
staff can be found in the town budget. the following is a sampling of
professional salaries available for fy 2015 (g4-la13, g4-ec5, g4-10):
    accountant: $83,937                             planning director: $72,160
    director of budget and                          public health director: $84,382
     finance: $111,885                               library director: $80,936
    town clerk: $71,683
                 data: southcoast today - http://www.southcoasttoday.com/dartmouth_salaries_2015



                                                                                              21

in 2012, the town of dartmouth hired executive pay consultants that reviewed
all department head pay policies for the dartmouth town hall. the focus of this
review is to try to make all salaries competitive with the market (g4-52).

outside of the municipal government, dartmouth’s economy is supported by a
significant array of firms and industries. throughout 2015, the average weekly
wage across all industries present in the town of dartmouth was $838. as can be
seen in the table below, employment in the education and health services makes
up a significant portion of total employment in the town.

              2015 dartmouth employment and wages
                                              average        average
                 industry         firms       monthly        weekly
                                             employment       wages
                   natural
              resources and        12             32           $387
                   mining
               construction        101           645          $1,064
              manufacturing        21            875          $1,107
                   trade,
              transportation,      239          4,502          $593
               and utilities
                information        10             97           $681
                  financial
                                   62            324          $1,086
                  activities
               professional
               and business        116           842           $884
                  services
              education and
                   health          293          5,622         $1,153
                  services
                leisure and
                                   106          2,396          $327
                 hospitality
              other services       91            485           $493
                   public
                                   12            910          $1,125
              administration
                 total, all
                                  1,063         16,729         $838
                 industries
              data: employment and wages (es-202)-mass.gov labor and workforce development



for example, the average day care worker in dartmouth earns $467 per week,
with total wages of $6,608,183 in the industry during calendar year 2015. total
wages across all industries located in dartmouth during 2015 were $728,683,873
(g4-10).




                                                                                         22

support for the local economy
the town of dartmouth follows federal, state, and locally-mandated laws to
inform municipal hiring decisions. as indicated in the town of dartmouth’s
personnel by-laws as well as the rules and regulations, “vacancies occurring in
non-civil service positions above the entry level shall, whenever possible, be
filled by the promotion of a qualified employee within the town service.
however, the appointing authority may recruit applicants from outside the town
service whenever he/she has reason to believe that better qualified applicants are
available from within the town service.” nevertheless, civil service jobs, such as
police officers and emergency staff, do show a hiring preference for those within
close proximity to the areas in which they serve. as of 2014, there were a total of
26 senior managers, 14 of which live in dartmouth, 12 managers did not live in
dartmouth. the town of dartmouth’s geographical definition of ‘local’ is being
located in the town.
as part of its services that the municipal government provides to the town, it has
strived to support the local economy in a variety of ways. in january of 2014, the
town released an updated and easy-to-read guide to doing business in dartmouth,
providing a general overview of the local permitting process to prospective
business owners. the guide can be found on the town’s website as well as on
srpedd’s website.




             source: http://southcoastenergychallenge.org/dartmouth-solar-challenge

in 2014, the town of dartmouth coordinated with the southcoast energy
challenge to organize the dartmouth energy challenge. over 400 of the town’s
residents participated in the 5-month campaign that was devised to provide
information about the benefits and opportunities that solar energy can offer. as a
result of the campaign, over 23 new residential photovoltaic installations were
completed that contributed “191 kw of clean energy to the grid” (southcoast
energy challenge). this was achieved through no-cost solar assessments and
rebate assistance that saved both homeowners and businesses money. these are
just a few explicit examples of the types of resources offered to local businesses
and residents in an effort to promote the local economy.

                                                                                      23

parks & housing facilities
in addition to the dog park that is currently in progress, construction of new
housing developments is currently underway throughout the town of dartmouth.
the village at lincoln park was under construction to build 53 market-rate new
single-family homes. as part of the lincoln park project, affordable and market-
rate multifamily housing along state and beeden road are also being produced.
progress regarding these three separate apartment complexes has been underway
in the last fiscal year, the first of which was just recently completed as of january
2016. the first unit holds 36 units, the second unit will consist of 48 units (age
restricted), and the third unit will also hold 42 units. while the second apartment
building is expected to be built later this year, the third is scheduled to be
completed in 2017. it is expected that this apartment complex will have
commercial space available contingent upon market conditions. (g4-ec8)
another instance of housing development in the town of dartmouth is the project
initiated by partners in housing, inc. who have achieved funding for the
development of the o’connor-sisson house for veterans, a collection of nine
affordable living units for veterans located at the former state police barracks on
route 6. in addition to the $460,000 in previous cpa awards, the town awarded
partners in housing, inc. $50,000 at the june town meeting for the development
of this project. this amount adds to the $2.2 million that has already been
committed to the project from other state and private funds. (g4-ec8)
financial implications due to climate change
the town of dartmouth seeks to minimize its environmental footprint while
simultaneously maintaining its sound fiscal policies (g4-ec2). two power
purchase agreements (ppas) have been signed with companies providing solar
power for electrical use as a cost reduction and sustainability measure adopted by
the town. the town continues to work on projects that would classify dartmouth
as a “green community”.
in 2013, dartmouth launched its solar production project on the capped landfill by
working with borrego solar systems. the town administration concluded that
solar panels would be less intrusive than wind turbines and could generate more
revenue for the town. operating since february 21st, 2013, this initiative has
already begun to reduce environmental costs. dartmouth town administrator,
david g. cressman, noted; “...we project [the landfill solar farm and energy park
solar farm] will generate us about $13 million in savings over 20 years.”
in 2014, the town of dartmouth received several awards for sustainability
including a municipal award for its leadership on clean energy as well as a
community sustainability program excellence award from the international city
management association (icma). dartmouth currently contains eight solar farms
that collectively share 28.75 mw of solar pv capacity, maintaining dartmouth’s

                                                                                   24

status as a leading solar power-generating municipality in massachusetts. the
town has also reduced trash generation through recycling and is focused on
increased water conservation. dartmouth became first in the southeast to convert
all municipal street lights to light emitting diode bulbs –commonly known as
leds –at one time with more than 1,600 city streetlights retrofitted, resulting in
an expected 66% reduction in street lighting costs. david cressman, has indicated
that dartmouth is producing 100% of solar power capacity within the next fiscal
year in order to offset them with net metering credits.
the pay-as-you-throw (payt) recycling and waste disposal program
implemented in 2007 marked eight years of operation in october 2015. the
program was renamed on april 12, 2012 to the save money and reduce trash
program (smart) (g4-en27). smart charges residents scheduled fees to
throw away trash in an effort to reduce trash in the landfill and increase recycling
efforts in the town. during this period, the program has achieved significant
reductions in waste disposal and improvements in the collection of recyclable
material. in fy 2007, the first full year before the program began, dartmouth
residents sent 10,946 tons of garbage to the town's crapo hill landfill (2007
dartmouth town report). in fiscal year 2015, that figure dropped to 4,819.42
tons – a 56% reduction compared to fy 2007. curbside recycling volume saw a
corresponding increase, from 1,913 tons in fy 2007 to 2,603.23 tons in fy 2015
– a 36% increase in annual recycling compared to fy 2007 and even slightly
higher than total recycling collected curbside in fy 2014. dartmouth's smart
program serves more than 10,000 households with weekly curbside solid waste
and recycling pickup. the town also runs a transfer station that is open three days
per week. "since the inception of the program, the town has reduced waste,
manpower, and operating costs, which has been beneficial for the town both
environmentally and financially" dpw director david hickox stated. for fy
2015, revenue for the smart program was expected to be $555,943.
the efficient operation of the water and sewer division and the water pollution
control division of the department of public works is a strong component of the
town’s strategy to improve service and reduce harm to the environment. projects
designed to expand current facilities to meet growth in demand as well as to
improve the functioning of the sewage treatment plant and sewage pumps will aid
in improving service, reducing costs, and reinforcing the town’s sustainability
initiative for dartmouth’s residents, visitors, and the local environment. the
town is currently investigating energy efficiency upgrades at various water and
sewer division facilities that are expected to be implemented in fy 2017.
over the past 3 years, the town of dartmouth has purchased two solarbee
floating spray nozzle systems that were installed in the cross road and smith
neck road tanks. these solarbee systems are water turbines that help to control
the formation of tthms as well as to lower the ph level of water in the tank and


                                                                                 25

to help prevent water from freezing during the cold winter months. the latest test
results for tthm and haa5 show that dartmouth is in compliance with the
stage 2 disinfection by-product rule. more information can be found in the
town’s annual water quality reports. following the implementation of the solar
bee system in the cross road solar tank in october 2013, the tthm level
measured at 965 cross road decreased to 48.1 μg/l by november 2013.
the following chart displays the revenue received (g4-ec1) from sewer, water,
and solid waste services provided to the residents of dartmouth over the past five
years. as the town has implemented green recycling initiatives such as the
smart system, revenue derived from solid waste has stabilized as residents have
become more conscious of their disposal habits. in fy 2015, revenue from
sewage operations amounted to $5,438,671, revenue from water amounted to
$5,131,124, and revenue from solid waste amounted to $1,570,850.

              sewer, water, & solid waste enterprise funds
       $6,000,000
       $5,000,000
       $4,000,000
       $3,000,000
       $2,000,000
       $1,000,000
              $0
                     fy 2012           fy 2013        fy 2014   fy 2015

                               sewer     water   solid waste


indirect economic impacts
the involvement of local individuals, corporations, and organizations make
additional improvements to the town possible through hours of service, monetary
donations, and partnerships. some of these projects include the restoration of
several salt marshes (www.town.dartmouth.ma.us), the addition of land for open
space and conservation, implementation of sustainable practices within public
educational facilities, such as the lloyd center for the environment, and many
charitable and non-profit agencies such as shelters for homeless people and
animals, as well as food pantries and community organizations that provide sports
programs, education programs, and community festivals and events
(www.town.dartmouth.ma.us).
additionally, dartmouth has benefitted from the existence of the dartmouth
natural resources trust (dnrt). the dnrt is a non-profit organization
committed “to preserv[ing] and protect[ing] dartmouth’s natural resources for
people and nature forever”. the dnrt owns over 1,700 acres in 50 open space
reserves, and stewards 50 conservation restrictions on another 1,350 acres.

                                                                                26

combined with the work dnrt has done in partnership with other conservation
organizations, state agencies, and the town of dartmouth, it has worked to
protect over 5,100 acres in dartmouth since its founding in 1971, making dnrt
one of the most successful land trusts in massachusetts (www.dnrt.org/land-
conservation).




                                       graph source: dnrt - http://dnrt.org/land-conservation/

furthermore, the massachusetts audubon society owns (g4-en11) an
ecologically significant 104-acre property in dartmouth, protecting one of the few
pristine coastal salt ponds remaining in southern new england. the land provides
1,500 feet of frontage on allen’s pond, and is part of mass audubon’s allens
pond wildlife sanctuary, home to a number of rare plants and hundreds of species
of birds, such as ospreys, peregrine falcons, least terns, bald eagles, short-eared
owls, and piping plovers. due to the property in dartmouth, mass audubon has a
contiguous block of 1,000 acres of protected habitats along the shore of buzzards
bay, including salt marsh, coastal oak woodlands, heath and grasslands.
funding allocated to the dnrt in fy 2014, all in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the community preservation committee grand agreement, has
resulted in the successful acquisition and preservation of approximately 62 acres
on north hixville road that now comprise “wernick farm”. in addition,
$176,928 was awarded to the dnrt at the june town meeting for the exterior
preservation of the helfand farmhouse, a property of historic significance in the
town of dartmouth. (dnrt)



                                                                                           27

in total, community preservation act (cpa) funds were used to finance five new
awards in 2015 that are part of the 20 awards currently in progress for ten separate
projects, including those listed above. these awards represent 31% of the sixty-
five cpa funding awards that have been approved since the inception of the cpa
in dartmouth. to date, cpa funded projects represent an estimated $14.7 million
in investment in the dartmouth community. (2015 dartmouth town report)

energy & environmental sustainability




                                                   image sources: google maps, umass dartmouth

renewable energy
over the past several years, there has been increasing pressure for public and
private organizations to reduce their carbon footprint, to use fewer conventional
forms of energy, and to invest in renewable energy sources. there is also building
pressure within organizations to drive down costs. while dartmouth has been a
state-leader in implementing the use of renewable energy technologies, as detailed
earlier in this report, the town has also succeeded in reducing its energy costs.
the town of dartmouth relies on four main sources of energy: electric, oil,
natural gas, and diesel fuel. however, the town has engaged in several power
purchase agreements (ppas) to offset its total electric costs through renewable
energy (g4-en6). below is a chart indicating the 8 major solar projects that have
been completed in dartmouth and their electric production capacities (g4-ec2):
                           dartmouth solar production
developer, solar farm                    address               output capacity (mw)

borrego, landfill solar farm             russells mills rd.    1.3 mw
borrego, hawes solar farm                reed rd.              1.288 mw
borrego, high hill solar farm            high hill rd.         3.494 mw
con. edison, business park solar farm    samuel barnet blvd.   2 mw
con. edison, dartmouth ii solar farm     hixville rd.          2.66 mw
emi, energy park solar field             energy rd.            7.82 mw
nff, no fossil fuels solar farm,         fisher rd.            6 mw
sun edison, thomas g. davis solar park   castaldi dr.          4.19 mw
total                                                          28.752 mw


                                                                                           28

major solar developments in dartmouth



     borrego, landfill solar farm
     the borrego landfill solar farm has been in
     operation since 2013. comprised of 5,369 yingli
     modules, each with a 240 watt capacity, this solar
     system is designed to produce approximately 1670
     megawatt-hours (mwh) every year.
     the solar farm is located on municipal property and
     is one of two local solar projects that the town has a
     power purchase agreement (ppa) with. more
     information can be found online at
     www.borregosolar.com/solar-projects.


     borrego, hawes solar farm
     borrego is operating and managing this solar project
     located on reed road. consisting of 5,416 solar
     panels situated on 5 acres of land, the solar farm has
     an output capacity of 1.288 megawatts. production of
     this solar farm began in october of 2011 and
     completed in mid-2015.



     borrego, high hill solar farm
     the borrego high hill solar farm was constructed as
     one of three solar developments supplying a
     massachusetts manufacturer with cheaper electricity
     through virtual net metering. the solar farm has a
     3.494 mw capacity.
     more information about this solar farm can be found
     online at http://www.borregosolar.com/commercial-
     solar-systems/high-hill-roadpurchase-streetbraley-
     road.




                                                              29

con. edison, business park solar farm
the dartmouth business park solar farm, located on
samuel barnet boulevard, became operational in
early 2011. situated on 10 acres of land, this solar
project is comprised of 8,000 photovoltaic panels that
collectively have a 2 mw capacity. in a year, this
solar farm can produce 2,200 mwh of electricity.
more information about this solar farm can be found
online at http://www.coneddev.com/projects/
dartmouth.asp.

con. edison, dartmouth ii solar farm
the dartmouth ii solar farm at hixville road is a
major development housing 9,500 photovoltaic
panels that has been in operation since the second
quarter of 2012. the system takes up 12 acres of land
and has a 2.66 mw capacity that it can utilize to
produce 3,300 mwh annually.
more information about this solar farm can be found
online at http://www.coneddev.com/projects/
dartmouth2.asp.



emi, energy park solar field
made up by thousands of photovoltaic panels, the
emi energy park solar field consists of multiple
solar farms that collectively have a 7.82 mw
capacity. as with borrego, the town of dartmouth
has entered into a 20-year power purchase agreement
(ppa) with emi to purchase electricity from the solar
park to offset municipal energy use.



nff, no fossil fuels solar farm
the no fossil fuels solar farm on fisher road was
built over an existing cranberry farm and currently
has an active power purchase agreement (ppa) with
the town of carver and the silver lake regional
school district. it has a significant 6 mw capacity
and is comprised of 21,000 photovoltaic panels.

                                                         30

                         sun edison, thomas g. davis solar park
                         located in the new bedford industrial park, the
                         thomas g. davis solar park became operational in
                         july of 2015 and has a 4.1 mw capacity. through
                         virtual net metering, the city of new bedford entered
                         into a power purchase agreement (ppa) with the
                         owners, benefiting from local generation that has the
                         ability to offset its energy costs.



                              umass dartmouth

                         umass dartmouth wind turbine & other
                         renewable energy projects
                         a 600 kw wind turbine was installed on the umass
                         dartmouth campus located at 285 old westport road
                         at the far end of the road surrounding the university’s
                         educational facilities. the turbine was installed by jk
                         scanlon company inc. the university has also
                               . a 265 kw solar pv array and a 1.7mw chp
                         installed
                         system.



summary
the town of dartmouth currently has 8 solar farms in operation with more
expected to be on the way. in march of 2013, dartmouth was ranked the top
municipality in the commonwealth of massachusetts with respect to the amount
of installed solar capacity. according to a september 2015 report by the national
renewable energy laboratory, the town of dartmouth “generates more solar
energy than any other community in massachusetts and twice as much as boston”
(nrel: http://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy16osti/64702.pdf). with its ongoing
commitment to clean energy initiatives, it is clear that dartmouth remains a
national leader in renewable energy.
it is estimated that the borrego landfill solar farm and the energy park solar
field alone will bring the town over $13 million in savings over the 20 year
period of the ppas that dartmouth has entered into. the increasing
competitiveness of renewable energy technology coupled with the closing of
nearby power stations, due to both economic and environmental pressures, places
further importance in solar and wind technologies. in order to mitigate the risks
posed by the changing energy environment, the town of dartmouth is constantly
investing in new technologies and services to offset its energy costs, improve its
energy efficiency, and adopt more renewable energy. (g4-ec2)

                                                                                   31

facility energy use
gas & electricity use
with various energy efficiency projects underway throughout the town’s
facilities, dartmouth continues to maintain its commitment to sustainability by
searching for practical opportunities to reduce municipal energy consumption and
the town’s carbon footprint. the following energy use information was
completed in early august 2016 and ongoing changes to the account setup since
this time may have impacted the energy use statistics below. in fiscal year 2015,
town facilities utilized 270,055 less kilowatt-hours than in the previous fiscal year
but consumed 13,646 more therms of natural gas. as a result, electric and gas use
(mmbtu) increased by 0.7% from fy 2014 to fy 2015. (g4-en3, g4-en6)
   fy 2015: total electricity and natural gas use in town facilities
                             fy 2012      fy 2013             fy 2014          fy 2015
             electricity
                            9,943,063    9,823,771        10,310,958          10,040,903
               (kwh)
            natural gas
                             256,572      296,188             316,565           330,211
              (therms)


despite reductions of energy use by the council on aging, the department of
public works, the police department, and town hall moving from fy 2014 to
fy 2015, incremental increases in energy use were prevalent in some schools
such as dartmouth middle school (11% increase) and demello elementary
school (11% increase) which contributed to a net rise in energy consumption.
cushman elementary school served as a major exception to the general trend
amongst the schools with an 11% reduction in electricity use. making an
allowance for the size and complexity of these facilities and their consistent use
throughout the school year, it is to be expected that the town’s public schools are
responsible for more energy use than any other major group of facilities.

       fy 2015: electricity usage                             fy 2015: natural gas usage
      fy 2015: total electricity use
fy 2015                                             fy 2015
  fy 2015
fy 2014                                             fy 2014
  fy 2014
   2013
fyfy 2013                                           fy 2013
   2012
fyfy 2012                                           fy 2012

    9,400,000                     10,200,000
                   9,800,0009,900,000
      9,700,000 9,800,000              10,000,000             0    100,000   200,000   300,000   400,000
                   electricity (kwh)                                         therms
                    electricity (kwh)
after the dartmouth public schools, divisions within the department of public
works (dpw) comprised the next largest users of electricity in the town. within
the dpw, the majority of electricity use can be attributed to the energy-intensive
processes of the water and sewer division as well as the water pollution control
                                                                                                  32

division which include the operation of the town’s numerous wells, water
purification plants, sewage pumps, and the wastewater treatment plant. in fy
2015, the electricity accounts for the water & sewer division totaled 2,065,973
kilowatt-hours while accounts for the water pollution control division amounted
to 3,319,974 kilowatt-hours. in the same fiscal year, natural gas accounts for these
divisions totaled 7,003 therms and 16,557 therms, respectively, which is small
when compared to the levels of natural gas used by the schools.
as a result of health concerns with the main police department building,
dartmouth’s police are currently located in temporary accommodations outside of
the main building. despite the slight increase in electricity consumption that
occurred from fy 2014 to fy 2015, the police department has made significant
reductions in both electricity and natural gas usage since fy 2012. in fact, total
energy use by the police department for fy 2015 was 13% less than in fy 2012.
from fy 2014 to fy 2015, town hall made significant progress in lowering
energy consumption, reducing total energy use by 19%. as part of the ongoing
renovation of this historical building, new energy-efficient windows have been
installed in town hall that will assist in reducing heat loss from the building
during the colder winter months. in addition, the town is in the final phase of an
upgrade of the remaining compact fluorescent lights (cfls) in the stairwells to
more energy efficient leds as well as the implementation of dimming controls
and light sensors in several rooms to reduce energy waste.
although electricity use in the public libraries increased slightly above that of fy
2014 to 181,534 kwh, southworth public library and north dartmouth public
library have largely maintained the significant reduction in energy use that
followed fy 2013 where 204,499 kwh of electricity was consumed. in addition,
while gas usage has been rising steadily throughout the last five fiscal years, the
town recently implemented a new control system for southworth library’s
hvac equipment that is expected to save the town 37,500 kwh of electricity
and 3,500 therms of natural gas annually, paying for itself in just over five years.
as previously mentioned, the dartmouth council on aging consumed less energy
in fy 2015 than in fy 2014. this reduction marks a 7% deviation from the trend
of rising energy use that could lead to significant savings if sustained.
overall, despite the fact that town energy use increased by 0.7% from fy 2014
to fy 2015, reductions in energy use occurred in many of the town’s
departments. it should be noted, however, that electricity usage data for the
town’s streetlights were only available for fy 2015 and part of fy 2014. in
addition, efforts are currently in progress to track heating oil in several buildings;
as a result, this energy use was not included in this report. while greenhouse gas
emissions from electricity use have declined slightly since fy 2012, emissions
from natural gas have risen much more sharply. as demonstrated, the trend of

                                                                                    33

rising natural gas usage is an important area for the town to improve on.
especially when taking into consideration that buildings are responsible for over
40% of global energy use, the town of dartmouth acknowledges that its facilities
represent a magnificent opportunity to make efficiency improvements.
the town of dartmouth is committed to monitoring energy use throughout its
facilities in order to identify opportunities for practical energy efficiency
measures that have the capability of saving electricity and natural gas, money, as
well as preventable greenhouse gas emissions (g4-en6). in fact, dartmouth has
continued to search for energy-saving opportunities throughout buildings like the
town hall, the council on aging, and the department of public works.


               electricity use (kwh) in various town departments
      department         facility / use    fy 2012     fy 2013     fy 2014        fy 2015
     council on aging   total               87,248      89,544     108,080         103,025
     department of      general             71,628      73,141      81,243         78,737
                        water and sewer
     public works                          1,824,337   1,889,267   2,081,412      2,065,973
                        division
                        dpw office &
                                           3,346,266   3,292,811   3,390,270      3,319,974
                        wpc facilities
                        sub-total          5,242,231   5,255,219   5,552,925      5,464,684
                        north dartmouth
     libraries                              11,547      12,355      15,556         15,550
                        library
                        southworth
                                           185,984     192,144     162,624         165,984
                        library
                        total              197,531     204,499     178,180         181,534
                        job s. gidley
     schools                                35,640      18,600      16,000         24,280
                        elementary
                        andrew b.
                        cushman             75,151      76,583      82,562         77,169
                        elementary
                        school admin.
                                            75,880      80,208      86,350         84,854
                        building
                        george h. potter
                        elementary         219,208     212,888     203,448         211,968
                        school
                        joseph demello
                                           242,751     227,151     242,551         241,951
                        elementary
                        james m. quinn
                                           447,696     454,240     469,600         468,320
                        elementary
                        dms                 612,513     574,919     579,465        583,459
                        dhs                1,933,428   1,876,889   1,783,526      1,749,488
                        total              3,642,267   3,521,478   3,463,502      3,441,489
     police             total               326,348     313,660     285,669        293,710
     town hall          total               356,801     321,801     323,201        237,201
     dctv               total                 n/a        29,628      46,710         45,263
     streetlights &     street lighting       n/a         n/a      252,674*        179,611
     traffic lights     traffic lighting    18,666      17,525      18,968          20,038
                        total                 n/a         n/a      271,642*        199,649
     waterways          total                9,279       10,464      12,816         13,042
                                                                             *incomplete data


                                                                                            34

town vehicle energy use
dartmouth has also invested in energy efficiency on the road with the five hybrid
vehicles and six affordable electric bmw i3 cars it has acquired for use by
municipal employees. chagrining stations have been installed at town hall, the
water department office, and the department of public works building that are
publicly accessible.
besides the recent addition of electric vehicles to dartmouth’s municipal fleet, the
majority of the town’s vehicles run on conventional fuels, primarily gasoline or
diesel. due to the fact that town employees almost entirely utilize one of two
town-owned fueling stations to refuel municipal vehicles, it is possible for
dartmouth to track vehicle fuel consumption. as a result, information on the
town’s fuel usage for fy 2015 can be found in the table below. as the town is
currently in the process of cataloging its fuel usage moving backwards, data for
years prior to fy 2015 was not available at the time of this report.
                                  fy 2015 municipal vehicle fuel use
fuel type                                    gallons consumed                        cost
diesel                                       70,370                                  $183,345
gasoline                                     69,936                                  $166,753
total                                        140,306                                 $350,098


water
the only ‘product’ the town produces, per se, and sells is water. dartmouth set a
goal of meeting retrofitting standards by 2016 for the conservation of toilet and
sink use as a result of a massachusetts mandate for improved municipal energy
efficiency. as of the end of the fiscal year, all retrofits for this project were
completed.
these types of projects are important as the town of dartmouth continues to
mitigate the unnecessary consumption of precious resources. the following chart
depicts the ground water withdrawn from 2010-2015 for town use. reporting
standards are measured in gallons by metering (g4-en8).

                                      dartmouth water use by source
                           1,200,000,000
                           1,000,000,000
        gallons of water




                            800,000,000
                            600,000,000
                            400,000,000
                            200,000,000
                                      -
                                           2010   2011   2012   2013   2014   2015

                                                   dartmouth    new bedford
                                                                                                35

as the following information will indicate, dartmouth follows the rules and
regulations levied by the massachusetts department of environmental protection
(dep) (g4-en9).
the major water source in dartmouth affected by the withdrawal of water is the
paskamansett river. the paskamansett runs through dartmouth, and according to
state mandate regarding water pumping, when a water source’s depth falls below
a specified amount, water is no longer allowed to be pumped from adjacent wells
until the water level again increases to an acceptable level.
as of dartmouth’s 2015 water quality report, the town’s water has been
supplied from 14 groundwater wells. wells a, b, c, f-1, and f-2, located at 299
chase road, have a combined capacity of 1,555 gallons per minute (gpm). wells
d, e-1, and e-2 are located in the area of 687 chase road and have a combined
capacity of 1,550 gpm. wells v-1, v-2, v-3, panelli-1, and panelli-2 have a
combined capacity of 1,370 gpm. in addition, there is one well on route 6 that is
currently inactive.
in 2015, the water division completed the expansion of the panelli well site. the
project included the installation of four new water supply wells, a pump station,
extension of water mains and underground electrical service, and improvements
to the access road. the four new wells will provide over 450 gallons per minute to
our current supply. more information about the town’s water supply can be
found on the water division’s page on the town website.




                                   image: dartmouth water wells




                                                                               36

total number of sources by type (g4-en9, g4-en12):
      14 wells, 13 active and 1 inactive
      4 wells affected by restriction, wells e-1, e-2, f-1 and f-2
      river restriction, june 1 to september 15
      if paskamansett river flow falls to 5.0 cfs or below, these 4 wells have
       to be shut off until flow is better than 5.0, cfs
wells protected by state and local law:
      all wells are protected by a zone i, which is town-owned 400’ radius
      all wells are protected by a zone ii, which determines how far the
       drawdown will be if a drought exceeds180 days.
size of water source:
      4 wells each with a town-owned protective radius of 400 feet, which
       sums to 550,000 square feet total, or 0.02 square miles of protected areas.
biodiversity
dartmouth owns and protects approximately 2,300 acres of land considered to be
of high biodiversity value ((g4-en11); 2015 dartmouth town report). in order
to protect, restore, and create more biodiversity-valued lands, such as the salt
marsh projects, the conservation commission is allotted an annual budget as
indicated below. in 2015, the conservation commission did not identify
significant non-compliance with laws or regulations that needed to be met with
fines or fees (g4-en29).

                   conservation commission budget
             $120,000.00
             $100,000.00
              $80,000.00
              $60,000.00
              $40,000.00
              $20,000.00
                   $0.00
                            fy 2013       fy 2014       fy 2015

utilizing grant funding, the conservation commission is able to make significant
environmental protection expenditures and investments that benefit the local
environment and community. several projects benefited or continue to benefit
from this funding. in 2015, a storm water runoff remediation for an urbanized
area received grant funding of $179,000, a boat launch improvement project was
awarded $25,000 in grant funding, and the initial steps to prepare the acquisition


                                                                                  37

of a property that connects existing open space and aquifer protection was funded
by $10,000 in grants (g4-en31).
comprised of a seven-member committee, the conservation commission is one
of the entities taking care of, and watching over, the local lands of biodiversity
value. the commission applies the massachusetts wetlands protection act and
the dartmouth wetlands protection by-law. their enforcement power covers
large areas adjoining salt and fresh water bodies and protects wetlands
surrounding areas such as: beaches, lakes, marshes, ponds, rivers, streams, and
tidal flats. in 2013, the town participated in, at a technical review level,
environmental restoration (salt marsh) projects that have reduced invasive species
and increased biodiversity by restoring native salt marsh species. as of 2015, the
conservation commission continues to monitor these areas in their ongoing work
on salt marsh projects. the increase of native species and the reduction of
invasive species will occur following the completion of the salt marsh projects.
approximately 85 acres of restoration projects occurred in dartmouth in 2013.
the goal of the salt marsh restoration projects is to increase salinity levels in
coastal estuaries for the purpose of reintroducing native salt marsh species (g4-
en12).
working closely alongside the conservation commission, the dartmouth natural
resources trust (dnrt) is a private entity that acts to conserve natural land and
wildlife in the town. the dnrt owns over 1,700 acres of land (g4-en13). in
the last few years, the dnrt has acquired a significant amount of land that it has
done work to restore or preserve including:
      the 29-acre peter’s creek reserve on the east side of the slocum river,
       acquired in 2013.
       the 62-acre wernick farm reserve on north albro avenue, acquired in
       2014.
      the 11.2-acre paskamansett woods reserve on chase road, acquired in
       in 2015.
the involvement of local individuals, corporations, and organizations make
additional improvements to the town possible through hours of service, monetary
donations, and partnerships. some of these projects include the restoration of
several salt marshes, two of which were still in the works during 2015, i.e. round
hill marsh and star of the sea drive (www.town.dartmouth.ma.us).
over the past few years, the 11.6-acre round hill marsh has received $2.77
million in restoration funding from the u.s. fish and wildlife service, a grant that
taps off the $1.3 million in superfund money from the new bedford harbor
trustees council. the funds are designed to enhance the larger 70-acre meadow
shores marsh so as to preserve and restore the commonwealth’s natural storm
barriers, as well as create local jobs, and thus, create local revenues. during 2015

                                                                                 38

work on the round hill salt marsh restoration project continued. the remediation
work involved removing up to 75,000 cubic yards of fill material beneath the
marsh, re-vegetating, and replacing the defunct wooden culvert beneath ray peck
drive (https://www.fws.gov/hurricane/sandy/projects/roundhill.html).
besides the round hill marsh, the only other salt marsh restoration project which
is still ongoing – of seven –is the star of the sea drive located on bird island.
unique to the other salt marsh restoration projects of dartmouth, the sea drive
also includes a public access; linking approximately 60 dartmouth conservation
commission resident-use trails.
not only is the sea drive a useful activity site for dartmouth residents, its
restoration is intended to maintain several life sources in danger. acquired in
1992 and occupying 43.75 acres, sea drive was once mined for sand due to the
excavation; top soil at sea drive is a rare resource. thus, as part of the restoration
project, dartmouth is committed to encouraging the growth (and resources
necessary for such) of the naturally located grey birch, scrubby oaks and
bayberry, the insectivorous sundew and cranberries. the restoration project is
dedicated to not only restoring the soil conditions necessary to encourage the
growth of these important life forms, but also to the resources for resident
physical activity. in fact, one of the restoration’s implementations is the
construction of an aesthetically appealing bridge to encourage the trail public
access and, thus, social benefits of resident physical activity (www.dnrt.org).
during 2015 work on the star-of-the-sea salt marsh project progressed. this
project involves the removal of a portion of an historic causeway to improve tidal
flushing a 10 acre salt marsh. the project also includes the construction of a
pedestrian walkway over the improved tidal channel to provide a link to existing
hiking trails that exist on adjacent protected parcels (2014 dartmouth town
report).
dnrt also spent $8 million to acquire the destruction brook woods, which
includes the slocum river and encompasses 1,053 acres (www.dnrt.org).ymca
farm on gulf road consistently seeks volunteers for all aspects of farming at the
community farm. all produce is donated to the hunger commission. in the first
seven seasons, “sharing the harvest”, a local event, grew and donated more than
143,000 pounds of food and hosted more than 10,000 volunteers.
there are currently a number of endangered species inhabiting the physical
location within the borders of the town of dartmouth (g4-en14;
http://www.mass.gov/eea/agencies/dfg/dfw/natural-heritage/species-information-
and-conservation/town-species-viewer.html):
      roseate tern bird
      least bittern bird
      lion’s foot plant

                                                                                   39

      sea pink plant
      tall nut-sedge plant
      purple cudweek plant
there are also some dartmouth species that are threatened –but not classified as
endangered –or are of special concern to the conservation initiatives:
      imperial moth
      marbled salamander
      vesper sparrow
      diamond-backed terrapin
parson’s reserve daffodil farm




the dnrt has been pleased to open its beautiful daffodil trails to the public in
recent years. this 32-acre reserve is home to fields of daffodils that serve as an
environmental and aesthetic benefit to the community. since this long stretched
trail is filled with booming daffodils in the spring, many visitors come to see the
beauty of nature and enjoy the peaceful surroundings.
however, the popularity of this exclusive place in dartmouth has caused
dilemmas for the community. in 2015, dnrt counted 12,000 visitors in the
period between early april and early may, a major increase compared to only
3,000 in all of 2012. some of the challenges include visitors, especially those
wandering off trails to take pictures and harming the daffodils, as well as the issue
of limited parking spaces. in order to combat these challenges, dnrt created
several photo areas for visitors as well as widened the paths. an increase of park
rangers, posted regulations and policies on signs, and also a proposed crosswalk
are all under way. most environmental and social changes are costly and with
much consideration, dnrt is now asking for $2 donation per person for non-
members when visiting the fields (dnrt.org/ 2014-changes-daffodil-fields).
in addition to conservation efforts, the dartmouth pathways committee has
worked to improve bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure through advocacy and
education, while supporting coordinated regional efforts to link existing and
future pathways throughout the southern coast. these efforts, in turn, will
improve recreational opportunities, fostering a healthier community for residents,
visitors, and the environment. a few bike paths have already been established.
delineated bike lanes were officially striped along old westport road from the

                                                                                  40

westport town line to lucy little road in october of 2012 as a component of
the south coast bikeway, a regional biking path initiated in 2011 that links
providence       to   provincetown        (http://www.southcoastbikeway.com
/dartmouth.html).
effluents & waste
town wastewater is sent to the treatment plant and discharged into buzzards
bay. in 2015, 983.37 million gallons were cleaned and pumped to salter’s point
in buzzard’s bay, massachusetts, down from the previous year. the quality of the
water is compliant with federal and state regulations, and is not reused by any
other organizations. monthly reports are produced in gallons by flow meters (g4-
en10, g4-en22).

                                     2015 wastewater treated and pumped
                                1,150,000,000
        gallons of wastewater




                                1,100,000,000
                                1,050,000,000
                                1,000,000,000
                                  950,000,000
                                  900,000,000
                                  850,000,000
                                                2010   2011    2012    2013     2014     2015
                                                         data: 2010 - 2015 dartmouth town reports

the dartmouth water pollution control facility uses an in-vessel aerated, high
temperature composting process to stabilize the dewatered bio-solids produced at
the plant. these bio-solids contain on average 20-22% solids, and are mixed with
amendment (wood mulch) on a volumetric ratio of one part bio-solids to two parts
amendment. this amendment is also produced at the facility in the brush grinding
operation. the facility accepts brush from residents and private contractors and
uses a tub grinder for grinding purposes, followed by screening in a trommel. the
duration of the composting process is approximately 20 days to provide aerobic
decomposition, stabilization, and disinfection of the bio-solids. after a minimum
curing period of 30 days, the finished compost is sold by agresource to its clients.
as of the last contract, revenue sharing is 60% for the sewer enterprise fund and
40% for agresource.
materials




                                                                                                    41

         the dpw has initiated landfill and recycling programs to save funds and improve
         the environment. at the start of summer 2012, the town renamed the payt
         program to the save-money-and-reduce-trash (smart) program. automated
         trash trucks that are equipped with robotic arms automatically lift and empty
         special recycling containers without the driver ever having to leave the cab of the
         truck. this system is designed to improve the efficiency of the sanitation &
         recycling division, provide a safer work environment for drivers, make the task
         of putting out recyclables easier and cleaner for residents, improve the appearance
         of the town, and reduce the injury potential to town employees (g4-en27).
         on top of the town’s commitment to offsetting energy usage and costs through
         the adoption and support of renewable energy, dartmouth is committed its town-
         wide recycling effort. in 2015, curbside recycling resulted in the collection of
         over 1,396.96 tons of paper products and 1,206.27 tons of glass, plastic, and cans.
         while the collection of paper products decreased by about 6% from the previous
         year, the collection of glass, plastics, and cans was about 8% higher than in 2014.
         compared to 2007, dartmouth has improved the curbside collection of paper
         products by 5.5% and the collection of glass, cans, and plastics by about 105%.
         gathered from the 2015 dartmouth town report, information on the year’s total
         recycling can be found in the table below and graph:
                                    2015 dartmouth recycling (selected materials)
                           transfer station         curbside          dartmouth schools
                                                    newspaper,
                      mixed                         cardboard,         1,396.96
                                    29.86 tons                                      office paper       41.22 tons
                      paper                         paperboard,          tons
                                                    magazines
                                                   commingled:
                                       1,989                           1,206.27
             waste oil                             glass, plastics,                 commingled         9.20 tons
                                      gallons                            tons
                                                       cans


                                          paper products & commingled recyclables
                                                   (collected at curbside)
                           1,800
                           1,600
                           1,400
amount collected in tons




                           1,200
                           1,000
                            800
                            600
                            400
                            200
                              0
                                   2007     2008    2009    2010      2011   2012        2013   2014     2015

                                             newspaper, cardboard/paperboard/magazines
                                             commingled: glass, #1 - #7 plastics, cans
                                                                                                                    42

each resident participating in the smart solid waste management plan is
provided with two containers: one 65-gallon wheeled recycling cart for bottles
and cans, and one 65-gallon wheeled recycling cart for paper and cardboard. as
of 2014, the population of the town was 32,881 residents and there were 10,124
households. it was reported that 9,806 of those households participated (97%) in
dartmouth’s trash and curbside pick-ups that year. this was an eight point
increase (97-89%) for the 12-month period.

                                              solid waste tonnage
                                      (curbside pickups and transfer station)
                                 10,000
                                  9,000
      amount collected in tons




                                  8,000
                                  7,000
                                  6,000
                                  5,000
                                  4,000
                                  3,000
                                  2,000
                                  1,000
                                      0
                                          2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012   2013   2014   2015
                                                                data: 2007 – 2015 dartmouth town reports

to keep waste from spilling into the aquifer, dartmouth has passed a by-law
stating that all wells are protected in regions defined as zone 1 and zone 2 which
are delineated to ensure that all town-owned wells are buffered by a 400’ radius
as well as to determine the drawdown depth of water supply if a drought were to
occur.
to contribute to these sustainability efforts, the town of dartmouth implemented
a recycled paper product procurement policy on june 14, 2016 (g4-en2).
information specific to this policy will be available in the fy 2016 dartmouth
town report. (g4-en27)
                                                               society




                                                                                                           43

operations & business practices
dartmouth is committed to understanding the needs of its stakeholders, and in this
effort, seeks to better these relationships. according to the town administrator,
dartmouth has made a point to insert local community engagement, impact
assessments, and development programs into all municipal operations.
in working to provide a safe place to live and work, there have been no confirmed
incidents of corruption in the town government during this reporting period (i.e.
0%; g4-so3). there have also been zero monetary, financial, in-kind, or other
contributions either directly or indirectly made to any political party or
representative, recipient or beneficiary.
it should be noted that no legal actions were taken in response to anti-competitive
behavior, and no significant fines, sanctions, or grievances have been pressed
against dartmouth for non-compliance with laws and/or regulations during fy
2015 (i.e. 0%; g4-so3).
dartmouth’s agricutlure community
dartmouth contains a significant agricultural community that services the public,
the environment, and local economy. many landowners decide to take part in
agricultural activity and many have turned it into sustainable business.
alderbrook farm, eva’s garden, silverbrook farm, and paskamansett farm are
just some examples of successful farming businesses in the town. local farming
offers benefits for many reasons:
      provides nutrition and health benefits
      increases crop variety
      allows for low prices
      supports local businesses
      builds community
      benefits the environment and wildlife by stimulating the ecosystem
      invests in the future
      ensures food security for the region
eva’s garden
a prime example of sustainable agriculture
efforts in the community is eva’s garden
located at 105 jordan road in south
dartmouth. the three-acre farm is known for
supplying some of the freshest organic herbs
to upscale restaurants from new york to
maine. the farm is owned and operated by          image: john sladewski -
                                                  http://www.southcoasttoday.com/article/2
eva sommaripa who has decades of                  0141116/news/141119470


                                                                                        44

experience in organic farming. the bayside in westport, the eastern standard in
boston, and the renaissance boston waterfront hotel are examples of her
customers. eva’s endeavors started in 1972 when she bought a small section of
the south dartmouth farm and set up a 100 x 50-foot garden to grow organic
greens without pesticides.
not only does eva indulge in harvesting, composting, preserving, and bartering,
but also inspires young workers at the farm to partake in sustainable agriculture,
from growing organic foods to cooking sustainably.
dartmouth dog park
the new dartmouth dog park will be located on a 12-acre site at the north
dartmouth regional park and is currently in the design phase. the project will be
in partnership with the town of dartmouth, through the board of parks and
recreation, and dartmouth dog advisory work group (ddwag). ddwag
will maintain the day-to-day operations of the park as well as the general
oversight. the goal of this project is to develop, construct, and maintain a
handicap-accessible off-leash dog park that will encompass a fenced-in area in
which dogs will be able to run freely and interact with other dogs. the dartmouth
dog park will promote responsible dog ownership, human and animal safety,
welfare, and education where dartmouth will be recognized as a dog friendly
community. some proposed elements of the park are benches, play areas, water
for the dogs, trash and canine waste receptacles, and trenching and conduit for
electrical power. the community will benefit from this dog park in many ways
since dartmouth currently has 4,493 (as of december 2013) registered dogs.
currently, no other park in town permits dogs, forcing dog owners to walk dogs
on streets and sidewalks and posing safety issues for both the dog and owner.
labor practices
in 2015, the town of dartmouth hired 182 new employees to work within the
school department and other departments throughout town hall. out of the 182
new employees, 111 were hired as staff and faculty for the school department, 48
of which were hired on a temporary basis as substitutes for staff and faculty
positions. 75% (83) of the 111 new school department employees were female
while 25% (28) were male. the 71 remaining new hires were for various
departments throughout town. of the 71 employees newly hired, 48% (34) were
female while 52% (37) were male. in total, 36% of all new hires in the town of
dartmouth were male while 64% (117) were female. (g4-10)
dartmouth offers town employees a comprehensive set of on-par benefits with
offers from various other municipalities. at a minimum, these benefits include:
life insurance through boston mutual insurance, health care assistance through
blue cross blue shield insurance, parental leave covered by the family medical
leave act, and retirement provisions through the bristol county retirement

                                                                                 45

board. the definition used for significant locations of operation is the dartmouth
town government. these benefits apply to the town officials and do not include
police or school system benefits (g4-la2). a summary of active employee health
benefits can be found on the town website: http://www.town.dartmout
h.ma.us/human-resources/pages/active-employee-health-benefits.
the likely expectation of every local employer, the town of dartmouth, too, aims
to give municipal employees 2-4 weeks’ notice. in certain situations, however,
giving this amount of notice is not practical, as some changes must be made
immediately due to the environment. dartmouth realizes this and has made a
point to quickly adapt to any operational changes so as to not disrupt its residents
and stakeholders.
this notice differs in collective bargaining agreements, during which notice
periods occur several months prior to the formalization and signatory of the
contract. this notice allows for consultants and attorneys to validate all language
contained in the contract.
the town of dartmouth has, and will continue to, abide by all state and federal
laws and regulations with respect to the use of child, forced or compulsory labor.
the standard law used by massachusetts is massachusetts general law c.149
s.33b, c.149 s.56-105, and federal laws 29 usc 212 and 29 cfr part 541. at no
time, and under no circumstance, does the town of dartmouth in any way, and by
any means, use children, forced or compulsory labor, in their operations. this
extends to the businesses located within dartmouth’s borders. if at any time
dartmouth uncovers the use of such labor practices, the business using these
means of labor will no longer reside within the town’s borders and will be
subject to state and federal fines and punishments.
human rights
dartmouth officials understand that human rights, for all, must be taken into
consideration with respect to policies, procedures, and operations. because of this
understanding, dartmouth has made no such investment(s) involving
agreement(s) or contract(s) for human rights clause screening. during fy 2015,
there have been no human rights incidents brought forth. the town of dartmouth
is also not, and has not been made, aware of any violations regarding the rights of
indigenous people(s) during this period (g4-hr8). moreover, there have been no
operations subject to such reviews or impacts that would otherwise be classified
as detrimental to the rights of dartmouth’s employees, citizens, or other
stakeholders.
health & safety indicators
to give town employees the best circumstances under which to work and
perform daily routines, dartmouth participates in collective bargaining

                                                                                  46

agreements. in these negotiations, workers’ unions are met by management
representatives, the town administrator, financial director, and other
department heads. these agreements cover approximately 90% of all union
employees; however, they do not cover non-union employees. it should also be
noted that these agreements may not specifically contain language covering
worker health and safety. (g4-11, g4-la5, g4-la8)
for the purpose of understanding the dangers of individual job requirements, the
town of dartmouth used to rely on future comp to track health and safety
indicators, such as injury claims. in 2014, there was a total of 68 injury claims,
including non-police and police employees. of these 68, 47% employees were
male and 53% were female. due to a change in software used to track health and
safety indicators, data for 2015 is mostly only available from july to december.
the graph below shows absolute injury claims for 2015 (from july to december
for the town; full year for the police department) and the seven prior years:
                        municipal injury claims per year

                  100
                                         86
                                                   80
                   80                                   68
                              61   57         55
                   60
                         38
                   40
                                                             22
                   20

                    0
                         2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015*


although many occupations and individual job requirements hold some level of
risk, the town of dartmouth has defined these workers who are likely, or may
have high rates in incidence of specific diseases and occupational risk, as police
officers and those working in public safety services, such as solid waste truck
drivers. these workers have been identified through the nature of their job
responsibilities (g4-la7).
training & assistance
all public employees of the commonwealth of massachusetts must undergo
training according to requirements set forth by the state ethics commission.
newly hired employees must complete an online ethics training within 30 days of
being hired, and all current employees are required to complete a training every
two years thereafter (chapter 268a of the commonwealth of massachusetts'
general laws). all municipalities must designate a senior-level employee as a
liaison between their respective municipality and the state ethics commission.
state employees are also required to complete mandatory ethics, campaign


                                                                                     47

finance law, and lobbying training every two years via online delivery through the
state ethics commission. unit managers and employees also undergo ethical
practices training through the human resources department. more information
on the training and policies can be found at www.mass.gov/ethics. (g4-hr7, g4-
so3, g4-so4, g4-la9)
the town of dartmouth encourages and offers employees many other training
opportunities. though most employees (town, school, and police force) take
advantage of these training opportunities, statistics are currently only available for
the dartmouth police department (dpd). as of april 2015, the dpd had 63 total
officers. however, information included in this section is for the most recent
available reporting period, 2016. the police department is made up of a 67
member staff, 4 of which are women. besides the chief and the deputy chief, the
police department’s organizational breakdown is as follows: 3 lieutenants, 10
sergeants, 9 detectives, and 45 patrolmen. members of the town’s police
department have trained for a total of 3,082 hours in 2016; the following figures
illustrate some training hours by gender and position (g4-la9).
               2016 dartmouth police department training

                                employees            annual hours of training
female                              4
patrols                             4                            184
male                               63
patrols                            41                           1,886
lieutenants                         3                            138
sergeants                          10                            460
detectives                          9                            414
total                              67                           3,082


the police department is trained under the administration of the massachusetts
mandate for biased-based profiling. massachusetts also mandates that all new
police officers be administered training on the basis of an 800-hour, 20 week
program. police officers include those hired and working in the municipal force.
training is also offered for veteran officers through highly focused and
specialized training programs (g4-hr2).
other than employee training, dartmouth also provides tuition assistance and
membership in professional associations to employees that meet specific
requirements. school employees have opportunities to periodically attend training
workshops, and the dartmouth police department implemented training courses
dependent on their various positions. some examples of these courses are (g4-
la10):



                                                                                   48

      cpr/ first responder first aid
      defensive tactics
      legal updates
      advanced crisis intervention
      atv training
      incident response to terrorist bombings
      advanced swat
      proactive criminal enforcement
      dive rescue
      identifying deceptive behavior
employee performance
to provide all stakeholders with the best support to the community, and to the
private and public business sectors, dartmouth assesses town senior managers
using regular performance and career development reviews. these regular
reviews are performed at various times and in varying intervals according to the
employee’s specific department (g4-la11).
gender & diversity
in its best efforts to fairly and accurately represent the diverse employee
categories (gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators
of diversity) the governance bodies for the town of dartmouth are comprised of
both town employees and resident volunteers. currently, there are 38 committees
in which 204 residents and municipal workers participate; 32% are female and
68% male (g4-la12). examples of these bodies include the board of health,
agricultural commission, school committee, finance committee, and cultural
council. a complete listing can be found on the town’s website at
http://www.town.dartmouth.ma.us/boards.

while the statistics regarding remuneration between men and women employed
by the town was not available at the time of this report, the town of dartmouth
abides by a policy of equal opportunity and does not discriminate because of race,
color, religion, sex, marital status, genetics, national origin, age, sexual
orientation or any other class protected by federal, state, or local law in its hiring
process. this policy is apparent directly on the employment application that an
individual would complete when applying for a position in the town government
(g4-la13, g4-52).
product & service responsibility
suppliers
to supply dartmouth and its stakeholders with the highest level of quality in its
services and operations, new and current suppliers are, after existing contracts

                                                                                    49

expire, looked over to begin new partnerships for the future (g4-la14).
dartmouth does not require these businesses to undergo human rights and labor
practices training, nor are these suppliers screened or assessed for impacts on
society. however, due diligence is performed before contracting any supplier, and
hiring is therefore discretionary to said businesses.
because of this performed due diligence, there have been no incidents of
violation(s) of freedom of association and/or collective bargaining agreement(s).
in the event that freedom of association or a collective bargaining agreement were
to be violated, by any business entity, involved parties will refer to, and comply
with, massachusetts general laws chapter 149. furthermore, in the case that a
supplier has been fined or sanctioned for incorrect business practices regarding
human rights issues, the town of dartmouth will assess the situation and decide
whether or not to continue that business relationship accordingly.
dartmouth strives to support the local economy in its procurement of goods and
services, purchasing from vendors and suppliers located in nearby towns and
cities throughout massachusetts when feasible (g4-12).
products
in accordance with state and federal laws and regulations, dartmouth’s
responsibility to provide its residents with required services covers three areas:
disposal of solid waste, water, and sewer. all three of these services are highly
regulated though applicable laws and regulations. in 2014, there was a
noncompliance issue regarding water which concludes that tthm has been
present in the distribution system. to reduce tthm within the water system, a
water main located on allen street in dartmouth has been installed and an
additional water main is currently being constructed on fall river road.
another service, previously mentioned, is that which dartmouth provides to its
stakeholders through the housing of personal data (g4-4). this data includes
information such as names, addresses, and telephone numbers. during this
reporting period, there have been no complaints regarding customer privacy and
the collection of their information (g4-pr8). the town of dartmouth has not
identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations regarding the collection
and maintenance of this data (g4-pr9).




                                                                                     50

                                        sources
this source list is made to clarify which gri indicators are being reported and if those
 specific indicators have an associated source. please note that some indicators do
 not necessarily need a source or may have sources indicated within the report itself
                              rather than in the list below.

gri indicator    source
g4-1             david cressman, town administrator
                 david cressman, town administrator,
g4-2             deborah melino-wender, director of community development,
                 brittany doherty, administrative analyst
g4-3             www.town.dartmouth.ma.us
g4-4             www.town.dartmouth.ma.us
g4-5             www.town.dartmouth.ma.us
g4-6             www.town.dartmouth.ma.us, topzone.com, srpedd.org
g4-7             www.town.dartmouth.ma.us
g4-8             www.town.dartmouth.ma.us
                 http://www.southcoasttoday.com/dartmouth_salaries_2015,
g4-9             2015 dartmouth town report,
                 randall kay, payroll administrator
g4-10            employment and wages (es-202) – mass.gov
g4-11            david cressman, town administrator
g4-12            david cressman, town administrator
g4-13
g4-14
                 david cressman, town administrator,
g4-15            joseph roche, administrative analyst,
                 www.town.dartmouth.ma.us
g4-16            www.srpedd.org
                 2015 dartmouth town report ,
g4-17
                 dls reports, massachusetts division of local services (dls)
                 david cressman, town administrator,
g4-18
                 www.town.dartmouth.ma.us
                 david cressman, town administrator,
g4-19
                 www.town.dartmouth.ma.us
                 david cressman, town administrator,
g4-20
                 net impact student organization
g4-21
g4-22
g4-23            net impact student organization
g4-24            www.town.dartmouth.ma.us
g4-25            www.town.dartmouth.ma.us
g4-26            http://www.town.dartmouth.ma.us/departments
g4-27
g4-28            shawn luz, energy manager
g4-29            2014 dartmouth sustainability report
g4-30
g4-31
                 g4 gri reporting principles guide:
g4-32            https://www.globalreporting.org/resourcelibrary/grig4-part1-reporting-principles-
                 and-standard-disclosures.pdf
g4-33
g4-34            net impact student organization
g4-36            www.town.dartmouth.ma.us
g4-38            www.town.dartmouth.ma.us
g4-43
g4-48            www.town.dartmouth.ma.us
g4-49            david cressman, town administrator
g4-50


                                                                                                     51

          http://www.town.dartmouth.ma.us/human-resources/pages/employment-
g4-52     opportunities,
          david cressman, town administrator
g4-56     www.town.dartmouth.ma.us
g4-dma    www.town.dartmouth.ma.us,
          david cressman, town administrator

g4-ec1    2015 dartmouth town report
          http://www.borregosolar.com/commercial-solar-systems/dartmouth-landfill,
          http://www.coneddev.com/resources/dartmouth.pdf,
          http://www.nofossilfuel.com/,
          http://www.coneddev.com/projects/dartmouth2.asp,
          http://www.borregosolar.com/commercial-solar-systems/high-hill-roadpurchase-
          streetbraley-road,
g4-ec2    http://www.southcoasttoday.com/article/20120425/pub02/204250384,
          http://www.southcoasttoday.com/article/20140517/news/405170314,
          http://www.southcoasttoday.com/article/20120328/news/203280326,
          http://www1.umassd.edu/communications/articles/showarticles.cfm?a_key=3031,
          http://www.umassd.edu/news/sustainabilitycommitment.html,
          building department documentation,
          google maps (photos)
          2015 dartmouth town report,
g4-ec3
          randall kay, payroll administrator
          2015 dartmouth town report,
g4-ec4
          2016 dartmouth town budget
g4-ec5    http://www.southcoasttoday.com/dartmouth_salaries_2015
g4-ec8    2015 dartmouth town report,
          http://www.heraldnews.com/news/20160111/new-apartments-set-to-open-at-
          lincoln-park-place,
          deborah melino-wender, director of development/grants
          2015 dartmouth town report,
g4-en2    michael arnold, water pollution control assistant manager,
          david cressman, town administrator
          shawn luz, energy manager,
g4-en3
          mass energy insight data
          shawn luz, energy manager,
g4-en6
          mass energy insight data
g4-en8    steven sullivan, superintendent of water & sewer
          2015 dartmouth water quality report,
g4-en9
          steven sullivan, water & sewer division superintendent
g4-en10   michael arnold, water pollution control assistant manager,
          david cressman, town administrator,
g4-en11   massachusetts aubudon society,
          2015 dartmouth town report
          steven sullivan, water & sewer division superintendent,
g4-en12
          2015 dartmouth town report
g4-en13   dnrt.org
          http://www.mass.gov/eea/agencies/dfg/dfw/natural-heritage/species-information-
g4-en14
          and-conservation/town-species-viewer.html
g4-en22   michael arnold, water pollution control assistant manager,
g4-en27   2015 dartmouth town report,
          jennifer frates, dpw administrative assistant,
          david hickox, director of public works
g4-en29   michael o’reilly, environmental affairs coordinator
g4-en31   michael o’reilly, environmental affairs coordinator
g4-la2    david cressman, town administrator,
          melissa medeiros, personnel administrator
g4-la5    david cressman, town administrator
g4-la8    david cressman, town administrator
          www.mass.gov/ethics,
g4-la9
          shannon lyonnais, executive secretary to police chief bob szala

                                                                                           52

g4-la10   2013 dartmouth police report
          david cressman, town administrator,
g4-la11   melissa medeiros, personnel administrator,
          david hickox, director of public works
g4-la12   www.town.dartmouth.ma.us
g4-la13   melissa medeiros, personnel administrator
g4-la14   david cressman, town administrator
g4-hr2    shannon lyonnais, executive secretary to police chief bob szala
g4-hr7    www.mass.gov/ethics
g4-so3    david cressman, town administrator,
          www.mass.gov/ethics
g4-so4    www.mass.gov/ethics
g4-pr8    david cressman, town administrator
g4-pr9    david cressman, town administrator




                                                                            53
