ddr corp.


corporate responsibility
and sustainability report
2016




                            1

                                                                                           gri // g4-1
dear stakeholders
2016 was a year of great progress in sustainability initiatives at ddr. our employees
were hard at work exploring new avenues for efficiencies, sustainable strategies and
community outreach opportunities.

through the efforts of our sustainability team, we began refining our processes to
grow our led lighting conversions, installed additional lighting controls on a mass
scale, installed cool roofing products on our buildings, installed electric car charging
stations across the portfolio and continued to facilitate over 2.26 mw of solar
power on 15 properties.

the results of these initiatives do not come easily and require tireless efforts
from many departments within the company. the dedication, collaboration, and
partnerships required in the execution of these programs make every one of these
successes a true win for our programs and our employees.

although we are a real estate company and our main focus is the physical buildings
that we own, none of our successes would be possible without the support from the
communities we serve. our employees are always trying to find ways to give back to
those communities and support those in need. the amount of charitable giving that
took place during 2016 was nothing short of amazing. through the efforts of our
employees, we donated over $300,000 in charitable contributions and took part in
150 charitable community events.

additionally, dozens of ddr employees and executives gave back to their local
communities on their own time by serving on the boards of nonprofit organizations,
such as boys & girls clubs of cleveland, the children’s museum of cleveland, ymca
of greater cleveland and greater cleveland habitat for humanity.

as we look forward to the coming year, i am excited to lead the company through
the opportunities and challenges of the retail real estate industry. i am also excited
about seeing the creativity and collaboration of our teams as we find new ways to
build a sustainable and responsible future.

                         sincerely,




                         david lukes
                         president & chief executive officer




                                                                                           2

                                                                                                                                               gri // g4-18-19, g4-28-30, g4-32
about this report
the purpose of this report is to provide a transparent platform to broadcast the status and results of ddr’s ongoing
corporate responsibility & sustainability initiatives. the data contained within this report is the data collected for
the environmental, social and governance initiatives declared within their respective sections of this report and was
obtained through our current systems and processes. the report content relates to all of ddr’s shopping center
portfolios in the continental u.s. and puerto rico.




this report is our first formal corporate responsibility &        declare all the information published in this report through
sustainability report and covers the 2016 calendar year.          supporting documentation. ddr reviewed the g4 principles
the intent of this report is to inform our stakeholders           and determined their reporting priorities based on the
regarding the progress of these initiatives. we believe           following criteria: ddr’s vision of corporate responsibility
each one of our stakeholders will be able to utilize the          & sustainability, relevance to our organization’s operations
information contained within this report to help them             and stakeholders and accessibility of the data necessary to
understand our environmental, social and governance               compile our corporate responsibility & sustainability report.
objectives. for additional information regarding this report
                                                                  as this is our first report, ddr acknowledges that our efforts
or the information contained in this report, please contact
                                                                  and reporting processes related to corporate responsibility
sustainability@ddr.com.
                                                                  and sustainability are in various stages of development
this report was structured in alignment with the principles       and execution. we will continue our efforts to enhance data
of the global reporting initiative (gri). the intent of           collection efforts at both the corporate and asset levels.
this alignment is to incorporate the criteria detailed in         as those efforts evolve, we will continue to update our
the “in accordance-core” g4 version of the reporting              stakeholders.
initiative. as such, we will internally validate and self-




                                                                                                            the maxwell // chicago, illinois

                                                                                                                                               3

                                                                                                                                     gri // g4-3-9, g4-15-16
our company
ddr corp. is a real estate investment trust that owns and manages a high-quality portfolio of value-oriented
shopping centers located in top markets across the united states. we strive to be the most admired provider
of retail destinations and the first consideration for retailers, investors, partners and employees.




ddr owns and manages 319 retail properties, representing
106 million square feet in the continental united states and           2016 snapshot
puerto rico. our portfolio is concentrated in high barrier-to-
entry markets with stable populations and strong growth              portfolio



                                                                     319 106m 576
potential, and is actively managed to create long-term
shareholder value. the company is publicly traded on the
new york stock exchange under the symbol ddr.
                                                                     properties            square feet                   employees
strategy and philosophy
                                                                     affiliations
the company’s mission is to provide the most compelling
shopping experience for its retail partners by owning the
highest-quality portfolio of open-air shopping centers. the
company strives to deliver attractive total shareholder return
through earnings growth, a sustainable dividend and a strong
balance sheet that is well-positioned through all cycles.
the company’s key strategies are summarized as follows:
  • operate with a low-risk profile and achieve further balance      publicly traded
    sheet improvement through continued focus on lowering
    leverage and maintaining long-term debt duration that
    allows for access to capital in all market cycles,
  • own and acquire high-quality shopping centers in major
    markets with attractive growth profiles,
  • invest in assets that are expected to appreciate over the
    long-term in locations that retailers will desire for the best
    marketing and distribution of their goods and services,
  • focus on long-term net asset value creation within the
    portfolio through strategic leasing, re-tenanting and
    redevelopment to be the preeminent landlord to the
    retailers that are gaining market share and that are
    most successfully adapting in an omni-channel
    retailing environment and
  • continue to build and develop a team of empowered
    employees to perform at the highest level and provide
    a workplace that rewards their talents and successes.




                                                                             winter garden village // orlando, florida
                                                                                                                                     4

stakeholder engagement




                                                                                                                                       gri // g4-24-27
tenants // asset level			                                          shopping center patrons // asset level		
shareholders // organizational level                               employees // organizational level & asset level
mortgage holders/lenders // organizational level                   industry organizations/trade associations //
                                                                   organizational level & asset level		
joint venture partners // organizational level & asset level
                                                                   municipalities // asset level			
investors/analysts // organizational level		
                                                                   vendors // organizational level & asset level			
community // organizational level & asset level		




  stakeholders                                       practice & frequency
 tenants                                          ddr engages with tenants through lease negotiations and asset level
                                                  operational contact


 shareholders                                     ddr engages with shareholders through quarterly earnings calls, press
                                                  releases and our annual shareholder meeting


 mortgage holders/lenders                         ddr engages with our mortgage holders through interaction during the
                                                  lending process, operational interaction and property inspections


 joint venture partners                           ddr engages with our joint venture partners through partnership creations,
                                                  ongoing operational interaction and regular reporting processes


 investors/analysts                               ddr engages with investors and analysts through quarterly earnings calls,
                                                  personal meetings with financial institutions and investment firms and publication
                                                  of sustainability information on our website
 community                                        ddr engages with the community through volunteer hours given to our employees,
                                                  partnerships and events with charitable organizations and through ongoing
                                                  interaction with municipalities and governing agencies
 shopping center patrons                          ddr engages with shopping center patrons through best-in-class property
                                                  operation, social media campaigns, property level events and marketing campaigns


 employees                                        ddr engages with employees through internal communications, wellness
                                                  programs, staff meetings, personal development programs, quarterly calls
                                                  with ceo and annual performance evaluations for all staff
 industry organizations/trade associations        ddr is an active member of icsc, a sustainability council member of nareit
                                                  and contributor to gresb


 municipalities                                   ddr engages with municipalities through ongoing operational, development
                                                  and redevelopment activities


 vendors                                          ddr engages with vendors through ongoing property and organization operational
                                                  activities, contract negotiations and payment processes




                                                                                                                                       5

materiality assessment




                                                                                                                                                      gri // g4-20-21
                                  extremely important




                                                                                                  11
                                                                                                           10
   significance to stakeholders




                                                                                              8
                                  very important




                                                                                                                6

                                                                                          3

                                                                                                  1

                                                                                                       4
                                                                            9

                                                                                                           5
                                                                        7
                                  important




                                                                                     2

                                                        important   very important                                  extremely important

                                                                            significance to business




1. energy efficiency                                                 5. community engagement                         9. climate change

2. waste management                                                  6. good employer practices                      10. ethical business practices

3. sustainable bldg. practices                                       7. health & safety                              11. transparency in reporting

4. water efficiency                                                  8. tenant engagement


                                                                                                                                                      6

                                                                                                                 gri // g4-19, g4-ec2
                                           corporate responsibility
                                           & sustainability strategy
                                           ddr is committed to operating our business in a responsible
                                           manner simply because it is the right thing to do for our stake-
                                           holders. this commitment is an integral part of our strategy to
                                           be a responsible corporate citizen, environmentally conscious
                                           real estate owner and the first consideration for retailers, inves-
                                           tors, partners and employees. for ddr, corporate responsibility
                                           & sustainability consists of three primary pillars upon which we
                                           focus our efforts: environment, people and community.
                                           sustainability begins with operating our shopping centers in
                                           a way that is friendly to the environment and the surrounding
                                           communities. through proactive energy management, water
                                           conservation, building envelope improvements, waste reduc-
                                           tion and engagement with our tenants and patrons, we actively
                                           reduce the environmental footprints of our shopping centers.
                                           employees and corporate culture are the heart of our organiza-
                                           tion. ddr is dedicated to hiring talented and motivated people
                                           in every real estate and corporate discipline. this dedication
                                           creates an environment where employees are satisfied, empow-
                                           ered and drive results. ddr invests extensive time and resources
                                           to ensure employees have access to professional development
                                           programs and wellness programs that improve the overall health
                                           of our team.
                                           at the community level, we strive to create a positive impact in
                                           the places where we live and work. our charitable endeavors in
                                           the communities in which we operate, support local hospitals,
                                           non-profits and health advocacy groups.




belgate shopping center // charlotte, north carolina

                                                                                                                 7

                                                                                                                                          gri // g4-ec2, g4-en3
solar power generation                                        electric car charging
ddr strives to find innovative ways to limit our              as many of our properties are suburban shopping
environmental footprint, reduce operating costs for our       centers with large parking lots, we are always working
tenants and shareholders and to provide the most efficient    to find ways to maximize transportation infrastructure
property level systems. our extensive solar program follows   for patrons and tenants while limiting our impact on the
each of these strategic objectives. ddr currently utilizes    environment. with the start of the electric car revolution,
15 solar arrays within our portfolio that generate a total    it was clear that electric car charging stations were an
of 2.26 megawatts of power. these systems cover roof          important part of this strategy. through the formation
areas in excess of 664,000 square feet and are utilized for   of close partnerships with the top electric car and
common area systems and direct power to our tenants.          charging station manufacturers, we began rolling out a
                                                              comprehensive installation program. at the end of 2016,
                                                              76 electric car charging stations were operating across
                                                              the portfolio. we are actively growing this program and
  2016 snapshot                                               look forward to the additional benefits we will achieve
                                                              during the next reporting period.
solar power


2.26                 megawatts
                     generated
                                                              cool roofing
                                                              as developers and building owners, it is important for
                                                              us to understand the impacts of the urban heat island
power equivalents                                             effect. large expansive parking lots and dark colored roofs
                                                              can impact the annual mean air temperature of a city by

1,694,839                                      pounds of
                                               coal burned*
                                                              1.8-5.4 degrees fahrenheit. to aid in the mitigation of this
                                                              effect, ddr developed an aggressive program to install
                                                              white reflective roofs as part of any roof replacement


235                                     3,677
                                                              project that takes place across the portfolio. the white roof
                                                              membranes have a high degree of reflectivity and allow for
                                                              the sun’s rays to be sent back into the atmosphere versus
homes powered                         barrels of oil
                                                              being absorbed into the structure of the buildings. this
for one year*                         consumed*
                                                              reduction in heat allows for decreased cooling costs for
                                                              our tenants and reduces summertime peak demand on
cool roofing installation
                                                              the local electrical grids.


19.6m
square feet/lifetime
                                        18.0m
                                        square feet/2016

*based on epa greenhouse gas equivalencies calculator




                                                                                                                 hamilton marketplace
                                                                                                                   hamilton, new jersey
                                                                                                                                          8

energy management




                                                                                              gri // g4-en4
           energy
2016 - kilowatts per hour
2015 - kilowatts per hour
                                    common area electricity is the largest factor of

                            1.38m   energy consumption within our portfolio, making
                                    stringent energy reviews, lighting upgrades and
                                    lighting control programs the primary focus of our
                            1.41m   energy management initiatives.

              2%
            change
                                    to fully understand the energy used at our
                                    properties and the impact to the environment and
                                    our stakeholders, ddr conducts a quarterly analysis
                                    of energy being used and how that energy translates
                                    into intensities at the property level. these reviews
                                    are conducted on an asset by asset basis with the
                                    teams that are responsible for the daily management
    retail, high street             of the properties. these reviews are a critical piece
                                    in developing strategies to minimize usage and
                                    identifying efficiency opportunities.
                                    over the lifetime of our program, we implemented
                                    an array of these strategies across 179 properties

                            2.81m   and realized a total reduction of 3.9 million kilowatt-
                                    hours. these initiatives reduced property level energy
                                    consumption on a year-over-year, same-store basis
                            3.17m   by 4.33%. this is a remarkable achievement and
                                    showcases the dedication by the ddr operating
             11%
             change
                                    teams to minimize energy use at our properties.




  retail, shopping center



                            81.9m
                            85.4m
              4%
             change




     retail, warehouse




                                                                                              9

                                                                                                                   gri // g4-1, g4-3–g4-9
greenhouse gasghgemissions
  2016 - tonnes
  2015 - tonnes                       ddr is committed to a sustainable future. greenhouse
                                      gas emissions are an indicator of operating efficiency and
                              573     an important metric in understanding our organization’s
                                      overall impact to the environment. through diligent
                              581     operations, ddr reduced our overall greenhouse gas
                                      emissions at our properties on a year-over-year, same-
                  1%
             change
                                      store basis by 8%. as we look forward in progressing our
                                      overall strategic plan, we are excited to see the resulting
                                      benefits in emissions reductions grow each year.




      retail, high street

                              8,137                                          44,600
                              9,111                                          48,149
              11%
             change
                                                 7%
                                               change




    retail, shopping center              retail, warehouse




                                                                                           tree planting effort
                                                                birkdale village // huntersville, north carolina
                                                                                                                   10

                                                                                                 gri // g4-en6, g4-en8
water conservation
 2016 - cubic feet                   water is a precious natural resource that should be
 2015 - cubic feet                   actively managed to maximize efficiency and minimize
                                     waste. water conservation is a key part of our quarterly
                             8,196   energy reviews. during these reviews, we work to identify
                                     outliers and anomalies that would help in identifying
                                     efficiency opportunities or situations of potential
                             7,579   physical plant concerns.


              -8%
                                     our overall conservation strategies include xeriscaping,
                                     rain water collection, re-use of grey water for chiller
             change
                                     systems, drip irrigation installations, native landscape
                                     and smart metering.
                                     due to environmental conditions and landscape needs at
                                     our properties, we did recognize an increase in water use
                                     at our properties. as the conditions normalize, we expect
                                     our consumption to reduce.
   retail, shopping center           we are excited to grow our programs and actively
                                     implement the necessary strategies to reduce common
                                     area water consumption.




                             1.5m
                             1.4m
             -13%
             change




      retail, warehouse




                                                                                                 11

waste diversion




                                                                                                                          gri // g4-en23
                                                       maximizing recycling efforts and diverting waste from
   2016   2015 - non hazardous waste/tonnes
                                                       landfills is a key point in our overall sustainability strategy.
   2016   2015 - total diversion/tonnes
                                                       landfills present many environmental hazards, including:
                                                       ground water contamination, air pollution, soil and land
                                              1,498    pollution and negative human health impacts.
 1,163
   648
                                              1,042    ddr recognizes the importance of minimizing contributions
                                                       to landfills and executing management methods to maximize
                      70%
                     diversion
                                                       recycling and diversion of property level waste. as such,
                                                       ddr began implementing a waste strategy across the
                       rate
                                                       portfolio to fully understand the waste output of our tenants
                                                       and common areas. understanding the fundamentals of
                                                       the material being disposed of by our tenants, helps us work
                                                       with our waste providers to rightsize our waste programs
                                                       and divert the maximum amount of our waste stream away
               retail, high street                     from landfills. whether it is through waste audits, rightsizing
                                                       or composting, we strive to find new and innovative ways to
                                                       deal with all forms of waste and minimize the impact to the
                                                       environment.

                                              2,521
 2,198

                      34%
                     diversion
                       rate

   677                                        862

            retail, shopping center


                                              53,593
53,417

                      27%
                     diversion
                       rate


3,251
                                              14,299
               retail, warehouse




                                                                                                                          12

                                                                                                                                       gri // g4-la2, g4-la9, g4-la11
people
at ddr, the business of real estate is driven by people. from our employees’ professional development to their
health and fitness, ddr puts people first. this is a core tenet of our company and has helped us create a world-class
organization of thought leaders and industry experts. in addition to nurturing the professional skills and work-life
balance of our current team, we also strive to cultivate new talent dedicated to the future of our company and industry.



in 2016, ddr was proud to be identified as one of northeast       development opportunities, establishing a forum where cross-
ohio’s top workplaces, as recognized by the cleveland plain       functional relationships are nurtured, and increasing attraction
dealer, the region’s most prominent media outlet. inclusion       and retention by being an organization that values diversity.
in the top workplaces list is driven entirely by employee         the program includes approximately 140 ddr employees, and
responses to an in-depth survey designed to measure               provides members with networking, educational and community
employee engagement. in general, engaged employees are            service opportunities.
defined as those involved in, enthusiastic about, and committed
                                                                  high potential leadership program
to their work and workplace – and the survey revealed ddr to
have a high level of employee engagement. to celebrate this       the high potential leadership program was launched in recent
recognition, ddr encouraged employees to wear jeans to work       years as a means to cultivate the next generation of leadership at
on a friday and hosted a free summer kick-off barbecue that       ddr. the program is comprised of high-performing employees
included frozen treats from an on-site ice cream truck.           who demonstrate a blend of creativity, initiative, innovation,
                                                                  intelligence and leadership. these employees have the capacity
                                                                  to develop solutions not previously imagined, and in doing so,
recognized by the cleveland plain dealer                          motivate and raise the standards and capabilities of everyone
                                                                  around them. they demonstrate the potential and desire for
ohio’s top                                                        advancement to the next level of the organization.

workplaces                                                        tuition assistance
                                                                  ddr offers tuition assistance for courses and programs that
                                                                  aid employees’ professional growth. assistance is available to
                                                                  employees after one year of employment.
employee development
ddr is committed to building a best-in-class team. as our         reit school
employees’ careers progress, we encourage participation           the snl reit school provides a comprehensive introduction
in industry-leading educational conferences, events and           to the reit sector through lecture, group discussions and
programs, and offer a wide range of formal professional           case studies led by a diverse slate of active real estate
development courses. working at ddr is a career, not a job,       practitioners, with a unique opportunity to network with
which is why we offer so many channels for our employees          attendees from across the spectrum of reits and
to develop in their positions and enhance their personal          reit finance. several ddr employees typically
and professional skills. the following are a few examples         attend reit school each year to gain an in-
of ddr’s investment in our people.                                depth knowledge of our industry.

women of influence program
ddr’s women of influence program exists to create an
inclusive culture where the best talent chooses to work.
the group’s purpose is to nurture the development and
enhancement of women at the company, and to create
a collaborative and cohesive working environment for all.
the program’s objectives include: providing professional




                                                                                    women of influence speed networking event
                                                                                                                                       13

                                                                                                                                            gri // g4-la2, g4-la9, g4-la11
                                                                 college relations
                                                                 ddr actively recruits current students and recent
                                                                 graduates from various academic backgrounds into
                                                                 our college relations programs. ranging from summer
employee scholarship program recipients
                                                                 internships to full-time jobs, all of our positions offer an
                                                                 opportunity to learn firsthand about the company, our
                                                                 culture and the key disciplines within the commercial
      real estate associate program
                                                                 real estate sector.
      ddr plays an active role in sponsoring the real estate
      associate program (reap). this initiative was designed     management training program
      to introduce minority populations to commercial real       ddr’s management training program is an 18-month
      estate by offering training programs led by industry       rotation-based leadership development program that
      veterans, including ddr executives.                        develops future leaders at the company. this unique
                                                                 program is designed to advance high-performing
      resource library
                                                                 recent college graduates within the organization
      the ddr resource library provides employees access         through experience-based training, industry exposure,
      to thousands of e-book and hard copy titles, including     and highly visible projects and assignments in a variety
      career-focused topics such as leadership, management       of departments at ddr.
      and professional development.
                                                                 in 2000, senior management created the program with
      property tours                                             the belief that talent should be developed from within the
      on a quarterly basis, ddr offers employees the             organization, acknowledging a unique opportunity to hire
      opportunity to attend property tours of some of our        high-performing college students, historically overlooked
      shopping centers in the cleveland area. tours are          in an industry (commercial real estate) overly focused on
      facilitated by our property management team and            experience.
      provide employees with the ability to see first-hand how
                                                                 the management training program consists of six,
      our business operates on a day-to-day basis. topics
                                                                 three-month rotations in key operating departments of
      of discussion include daily operations, preventative
                                                                 the company. once rotations are successfully completed,
      maintenance, sustainability initiatives, leasing
                                                                 trainees are placed into a permanent position and
      opportunities and tenant relations.
                                                                 department. typical rotations are completed within
                                                                 some variation of the following departments: leasing,
      investing in our employees                                 development, asset management, investor relations,
                                                                 transactions, capital markets, and national accounts.
      $25k                 awarded in academic
                           scholarships



      employee scholarship program
      ddr values education and recognizes the importance
      of investing in our employees as well as their children.
      since 2011, ddr has sponsored an academic
      scholarship program for children and dependents of
      employees. in 2016, ddr awarded five scholarships
      with a total value of $25,000 to employees’ families.
      the scholarship committee selects recipients based
      on individual need, academic performance, and the
      commitment they have made to their community
      through active participation in extracurricular
      activities, volunteering with nonprofit
      organizations, and employment experience.




                                                                                                                      management training
                                                                                                                         program trainees

                                                                                                                                            14

                                                                                                                             gri // g4-la2, g4-la9, g4-la11
                                                                                                       2016 summer interns


program highlights include: a formal one-week              access to healthy lifestyle options, from exercise
orientation and on-boarding program, on-the-job            classes and equipment to balanced meal choices, is
training and exposure to the key operating departments     a barrier ddr has eliminated for our employees. our
of a new york stock exchange-listed real estate            3,000-square-foot full-service gym, which opened in
investment trust, the chance to work on highly visible     2009 and is staffed by a certified fitness instructor
assignments and projects, mentorship from senior           and wellness manager, is available free-of-charge to
executives and a formal performance review and             all ddr employees. the facility also hosts 20 exercise
evaluation process.                                        classes each week, including yoga and pilates, and
                                                           offers personal training and nutrition counseling. the
summer internship program
                                                           wellness arm of the facility sponsors lifestyle challenge
ddr offers summer internships in various departments       programs to encourage healthy habits and works with
throughout the organization that provide hands-on          the onsite café to plan daily healthy meal choices.
learning in students’ specific areas of interest. summer
interns are assigned to a mentor within the department
of their internship to provide supervision and guidance.   employee health and wellness matters
interns are challenged with specific responsibilities
and often get the opportunity to assist on highly
visible assignments.                                       3k sf             full-
                                                           service fitness center
                                                                                              20     weekly
                                                                                              exercise classes
summer interns are evaluated on their performance
through a summer capstone presentation to senior
management and key executives, which provides              making health and wellness an important part of daily
the opportunity to highlight experiences and               life is the goal of the make it happen program, a lifestyle
accomplishments and gain exposure within the               challenge open to all ddr employees, regardless of
organization. successful summer interns may be asked       geographic location. the program runs for 40 weeks,
to come back to ddr after graduation for full-time         and features a point-system competition with monthly
employment through the company’s management                and quarterly awards for participation and a grand prize
training program.                                          of free health insurance for the following year. each
                                                           week, employees are given various fitness and nutrition

wellness program                                           challenges, along with the same four goals: 1) eat at least
                                                           five servings of fruits and vegetables daily, 2) exercise
ddr has a core commitment to providing first-class
                                                           for at least 30 minutes three to five days per week, 3)
amenities to our employees as a means of improving
                                                           drink at least eight six-ounce glasses of water each day,
their overall health and well-being. our corporate
                                                           and 4) sleep at least seven hours each night. employees
office features a state-of-the-art fitness center where
                                                           track their progress online, and receive weekly support
employees can participate in a variety of exercise
                                                           via emails and newsletters. in 2016, 256 employees
classes or utilize a broad range of equipment to
                                                           enrolled in the program.
work out independently.




                                                                   2016 fitty awards
                                                                                                                             15

community




                                                                                                                                                    gri // g4-15
operating in stable and vibrant communities is a hallmark for successful commercial real estate organizations
and ddr is committed to making a positive difference in the places where we live and work. ddr’s community
involvement strategy is driven in large part by our employees’ interests and often takes place at the grassroots
and local level, where we feel we can make the biggest difference.




2016 corporate                                                    organizations for up to an eight-hour work day. employees
                                                                  pick the nonprofit of their choice, at the time of year that works
giving snapshot
                                                                  best for them, and receive one full work day per calendar
in 2016, ddr employees donated generously to support
                                                                  year away from the office to donate their time and talents.
approximately 150 charitable organizations that they are
                                                                  organizations that employees donated time to through the
passionate about in the fields of health advocacy, community
                                                                  community service day program include: womensafe, a
outreach and animal support. organizations that employees
                                                                  domestic violence shelter; akron food bank; parma animal
supported with charitable giving include: rainbow babies and
                                                                  shelter; the veterans of foreign wars of the u.s.; and the
children’s hospital, the maltz museum of jewish heritage,
                                                                  littlest heroes, which assists families of children with cancer.
the humane society, junior achievement, the cystic fibrosis
foundation, the lupus foundation, and the alzheimer’s
association.
                                                                    2016 charitable impact
through the cumulative efforts of our company-sponsored
events and programs, as well as corporate-level sponsorships
and individual donations by ddr employees, we donated
                                                                  $300k                    donated to charitable
                                                                                           organizations
more than $300,000 in funding to various charities and


                                                                  150
organizations across the country in 2016.
                                                                                charitable organizations
much of that funding was delivered through ddr’s employee-                      supported in 2016
gift matching program, which aims to encourage and support
the generosity and community involvement of employees
                                                                   additionally, approximately 25 ddr employees and
by providing matching funds to charitable organizations
                                                                   executives give back to their local communities on
employees personally support. to maximize the impact of
                                                                   their own time by serving on the boards of nonprofit
employee charitable giving, ddr matches, dollar-for-dollar
                                                                   organizations, such as boys & girls clubs of cleveland,
at up to $500 per year, donations made by employees to the
                                                                   the children’s museum of cleveland, ymca of greater
eligible nonprofit organizations of their choice. organizations
                                                                   cleveland and greater cleveland habitat for humanity.
that received funding through the program include: the
national multiple sclerosis society, st. jude’s
research hospital, the wounded warrior project,
greater cleveland food bank, the cleveland
animal protective league and the american
cancer society.

as an additional means of supporting
employees’ charitable giving, ddr
offers the community service
day program, which provides
an opportunity for employees
to work for qualifying charitable



                                                                                     michael deering // senior vice president of funds management
                                                                                                                   supporting junior achievement
                                                                                                                                                    16

                                                                                                                    gri // g4-15
community involvement                                                                              team ddr 2016
in action
for the second consecutive year, ddr organized a toy
drive for cleveland clinic to provide holiday gifts to
the many children who spent time during the holiday
season in the hospital’s facilities. the commitment
and generosity exhibited by ddr’s employees allowed
cleveland clinic to deliver our donations to hillcrest   $23k                raised in the pan
                                                                             ohio hope ride
hospital pediatrics, fairview hospital pediatrics,
hillcrest medical office building, fairview medical


                                                         328
office building, as well as multiple emergency
                                                                        mile bicycle journey from
departments and outpatient labs. the significant                        cincinnati to cleveland
outpouring of support by our employees led to the
presentation of gifts to many children throughout the
                                                         as part of our commitment to operate as a responsible
greater cleveland community. among the hundreds of
                                                         corporate citizen, ddr invests in the city of beachwood,
items donated by ddr employees were: books, dvds,
                                                         ohio, which hosts our corporate headquarters. along
lego sets, dolls, craft kits and gift cards.
                                                         with organizations such as cleveland clinic and pnc
ddr employees showed their support for the american      bank, ddr serves as a presenting sponsor of the
cancer society by participating in the pan ohio          beachwood chamber of commerce’s annual fitness
hope ride, a four-day, 328-mile bicycle journey from     challenge. the event is a competition that brings
cincinnati to cleveland. led by joe chura, senior        together local businesses to participate in several
vice president of construction management, and eric      fun activities, including a three-on-three basketball
newland, manager of architectural design, team ddr       tournament, a one-mile run/walk and a four-mile
raised nearly $23,000, among the highest totals of       team relay. in 2016, ddr was proud to claim the title
any team. the ride has raised a cumulative total of $6   as winner of the fitness challenge’s “large company”
million dollars for the american cancer society since    category, which includes businesses with 100
its inception in 2007.                                   employees or more.




                                                                                           color the town pink
                                                                       deer park town center // chicago, illinois
                                                                                                                    17

                                                                    2016 snapshot




                                                                                                                               gri // g4-15
                                                                   winter garden village


                                                                   $11k          raised for the join
                                                                                 the flock campaign
                                                        pink out
                                           winter garden village
                                                orlando, florida   deer park town center


                                                                   $3k
                                                                                raised & donated
                                                                                to the advocate
community involvement in                                                        charitable foundation

action: at our properties
at ddr-owned properties, we are committed                          village at stone oak
to partnering with local philanthropic and civic
organizations to improve and support the communities               $20k          raised & donated to the
                                                                                 susan g. komen foundation
our shopping centers serve.

ddr management at several properties undertook
initiatives with local partners in october to coincide with
the national breast cancer foundation’s breast cancer
awareness month. at winter garden village in orlando,
florida, ddr partnered with florida hospital for the
organization’s #jointheflock campaign, which involved
placing flocks of plastic pink flamingos at various sites
throughout the orlando area. the flamingos were sold
online and at retailers throughout the area, with proceeds
going to pay for mammograms for women who could
not otherwise afford them. the overall campaign raised
more than $11,000, with the total at winter garden village
encompassing more than half that sum.

at village at stone oak in san antonio, texas, ddr
partnered with north central baptist hospital for our
seventh-annual girls night out event, which aims to
celebrate breast cancer survival and spread awareness.
the event featured numerous health and wellness
vendors, plus a fashion show in which breast-cancer
survivors showed off the latest styles on a catwalk.
the event concluded with a balloon release to signify
a message of hope. girls night out raised more than
$20,000 - proceeds of which were donated to the susan
g. komen® foundation.

in chicago, illinois, ddr’s deer park town center hosted
its third annual color the town pink event, which featured
group exercise classes, a fashion show with clothing
from the center’s retailers, and crafts and games for
children. the event’s goal is to promote breast cancer
prevention. color the town pink raised approximately
$3,000 for the benefit of advocate charitable foundation,
a chicago-area nonprofit that helps to provide
mammograms for women in underserved areas
and for women who are under-insured.

                                                                                                             girls night out
                                                                                                        village at stone oak
                                                                                                          san antonio, texas

                                                                                                                           18

                                                                  gri // g4-34, g4-41, g4-52, g4-56, g4-58, g4-la12
corporate
governance
ddr is committed to providing an ethical and effective
corporate governance environment. a critical piece of our
governance culture is our code of business conduct and
ethics.

the ddr code of conduct and ethics is a key component
of our onboarding process. it is reviewed with each of our
associates at the commencement of his or her employment.
the code details our expectations regarding ethics and anti-
corruption policies, and sets the stage for proper conduct
in dealing with each other as well as our stakeholders. in
addition, we conduct on-going periodic training regarding the
code for all associates every other year. the code is available
on our corporate website.

as part of our corporate governance program, we have
contracted with an independent provider (navex global)
to administer a dedicated anonymous reporting hotline,
through which associates and members of the public can
report claims of suspected violations of the code either via
telephone or online. the hotline is monitored 24/7/365 and
collects no personal information about a reporting party.
during 2016, no complaints were reported on the hotline.




                                                                  19

                                                                                                                                               gri // g4-34, g4-41, g4-52, g4-56, g4-58, g4-la12
                                                                                                                the shops at midtown miami
                                                                                                                              miami, florida




  corporate governance
 board of directors
 our board of directors consists of eight men and one woman         the ddr board of directors also conducts an annual self-
 (one minority status). six board members are considered            evaluation to determine whether the board is functioning
 independent under the listing rules of the new york stock          effectively. the nominating and corporate governance
 exchange and applicable law. the non-independent members           committee receives input from directors and reports annually
 of the board are chief executive officer david lukes, alexander    to the board with an assessment of the board’s performance.
 otto and thomas finne as described in the ddr proxy                shareholders, employees and other interested parties can
 statement. nomination for board membership is based on             contact our board of directors through our corporate secretary,
 factors detailed in our annual proxy statement and corporate       corporate compliance officer or the chairman of the audit
 governance guidelines. nominees for board membership are           committee. contact information is provided in our code of
 recommended by the nominating and corporate governance             business conduct and ethics and on the company’s website.
 committee in accordance with its charter.

 the ddr board has various committees which include an audit
 committee, an executive compensation committee, and a                2016 snapshot
 nominating and corporate governance committee. members
 of these committees are independent directors under the            board of directors



                                                                    9                              6
 guidelines established by the new york stock exchange and
                                                                        board                           independent
 applicable law.
                                                                        members                         members
 each of these committees has its own charter, which sets forth
 the purposes, goals and responsibilities of the committee, as
 well as structure and operations, qualifications for membership,
 and procedures for the committee. each committee is required
 to evaluate its performance annually.
                                                                    1   female
                                                                        member                     3    independent
                                                                                                        committees




corporate governance // ddr corp. 2016 csr report
                                                                                                                                               20

                                                                                                                                                                                                    gri // g4-35-36, g4-dma
                           management                approach
                           disclosure on management approach
                                                              dma
                                   footprint                           company                                                           community
components




                           energy, water, waste,             best-in-class employer             engagement with                  health & safety                   vendor partners & ethical
 material




                           sustainable development                                              local communities and                                              business practice
                           and construction,                                                    charitable organizations
                           responsible property
                           operation


                           increase energy efficiencies      hr strategic initiatives           ddr is an active member          as part of ddr’s operating        ddr takes our vendor
                           through strategic installations                                      of the local communities         policies and procedures, our      relationships and ethical
                           of lighting controls and led      ethics and code of conduct         in which we serve. ddr           properties are inspected on       business practices very
                           lighting                          training                           actively contributes to over     an ongoing basis for health       seriously. we also understand
    policies & practices




                                                                                                150 charitable organizations     and safety impacts, i.e.          that the operations of our
                           increase water efficiencies       performance management for         with a calendar year total of    roof inspections, building        vendors on our properties
                           through the use of drought        all employees                      $300,000.                        inspections, fire/life safety     can impact our goals and
                           tolerant landscaping and                                                                              inspections and general           objectives surrounding
                           smart irrigation controls         wellness program                                                    liability inspections. in         sustainability.
                                                                                                                                 addition, ddr also conducts
                           redevelop properties to           employee scholarship                                                environmental assessments         in addition to environmental
                           include sustainable attributes,   program                                                             on acquisitions, development      aspects, our operating
                           limit c&d waste to landfills                                                                          projects and ongoing              agreements also include
                           and heighten efficiencies of      management training                                                 monitoring for sites previously   strict language around our
                           existing operations               program                                                             identified for remediation        expected code of conduct, fair
                                                                                                                                 activities.                       hiring and labor practices and
                           increase recycling and                                                                                                                  ethical interaction with ddr
                           mitigate waste being sent                                                                                                               employees.
                           to landfills
targets &
 actions




                           main targets and actions can be found within the content of this report on pages 8-12 & 13-18.




                           all property and sustainability   the svp of strategic finance       all property and sustainability related matters are executed by our property operations teams
                           related matters are executed      and tax is responsible for         at the asset level. the svp of operations heads the property management and sustainability
    responsible parties




                           by our property operations and    developing and executing the       function. the chief operating officer is the ultimate authority over all of these functions.
                           construction/development          strategic initiatives related to
                           teams at the asset level. the     employees.
                           svp of operations heads
                           the property management
                           and sustainability function.
                           the svp of construction
                           manages all construction and
                           development activities. the
                           chief operating officer is the
                           ultimate authority over all of
                           these functions.

                           ddr evaluates the                 ddr periodically conducts          ddr evaluates the effectiveness of our operating performance on an ongoing basis
management approach




                           effectiveness of our operating    employee surveys to gauge          for our entire portfolio. we also review the annual results of our program at the end
                           performance on an ongoing         employee satisfaction and          of each calendar year to determine necessary modifications or changes to our management
   evaluation of




                           basis for our entire portfolio.   allow for employees to offer       approach.
                           we also review the annual         input to company matters,
                           results of our program at         strategy and approach.
                           the end of each calendar
                           year to determine necessary
                           modifications or changes to
                           our management approach.




                                                                                                                                                                                                    21

gri content index g4
general standard disclosures

general
standard                                                                                                                                          external
disclosures   disclosure requirements                                      reference/response                                                     assurance
strategy and analysis
g4-1          provide a statement from the most senior decision-           stakeholder letter, page 2.
              maker of the organization (such as ceo, chair, or
              equivalent senior position) about the relevance of
              sustainability to the organization and the organization’s
              strategy for addressing sustainability.

organizational profile
g4-3          report the name of the organization.                         our company, page 4.




g4-4          report the primary brands, products, and services.           our company, page 4.




g4-5          report the location of the organization’s headquarters.      our company, page 4.




g4-6          report the number of countries where the organization        our company, page 4.
              operates, and names of countries where either the
              organization has significant operations or that are
              specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered
              in the report.
g4-7          report the nature of ownership and legal form.               our company, page 4.




g4-8          report the markets served (including geographic              our company, page 4.
              breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and
              beneficiaries).

g4-9          a. report the scale of the organization, including:          our company, page 4, annual report form 10-k.
              b. total number of employees
              c. total number of operations
              d. net sales (for private sector organizations) or net
                 revenues (for public sector organizations)
              e. total capitalization broken down in terms of debt
                 and equity (for private sector organizations)
              f. quantity of products or services provided
g4-10         a. report the total number of employees by                   male: 44% (242), female: 56% (302)
                 employment contract and gender.                           males in management positions: 67% (108)
              b. report the total number of permanent employees by         females in management positions: 33% (54)
                 employment type and gender.                               exempt: 63% (344), non-exempt: 37% (200)
              c. report the total workforce by employees and               fixed term male (4)
                 supervised workers and by gender.                         fixed term female (1)
              d. report the total workforce by region and gender.
              e. report whether a substantial portion of the               ddr does not track employees of 3rd party contractors or service
                 organization’s work is performed by workers who are       providers. therefore, any related information is not included within
                 legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals    this report.
                 other than employees or supervised workers,
                 including employees and supervised employees of
                 contractors.
              f. report any significant variations in employment
                 numbers (such as seasonal variations in
                 employment in the tourism or agricultural industries).
g4-11         report the percentage of total employees covered by          0% of our employees are covered by collective bargaining
              collective bargaining agreements.                            agreements.




                                                                                                                                                              22

gri content index g4 cont.
general
standard                                                                                                                                         external
disclosures   disclosure requirements                                      reference/response                                                    assurance
organizational profile cont.
g4-12         describe the organization’s supply chain.                    ddr is a real estate investment trust. as an owner, developer
                                                                           and operator of real estate, our supply chain consists of vendors
                                                                           that service the operations of our properties and professionals
                                                                           that provide legal or real estate brokerage support. in addition
                                                                           to operational and professional vendors, we also deal directly
                                                                           with municipalities and utility providers regarding property taxes,
                                                                           permitting and necessary utilities.
g4-13         a. report any significant changes during the reporting       annual report form 10-k.
                 period regarding the organization’s size, structure,
                 ownership, or its supply chain, including:
              b. changes in the location of, or changes in, operations,
                 including facility openings, closings, and expansions
              c. changes in the share capital structure and other
                 capital formation, maintenance, and alteration
                 operations (for private sector organizations)
              d. changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of
                 the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers,
                 including selection and termination
g4-14         report whether and how the precautionary approach            ddr makes every effort to operate its properties to the highest
              or principle is addressed by the organization.               standards. this includes environmental specifications in
                                                                           operational contracts and due diligence as part of acquisition
                                                                           activities.
g4-15         list externally developed economic, environmental            our company, page 4, community, pages 16-18.
              and social charters, principles, or other initiatives
              to which the organization subscribes or which it
              endorses.
g4-16         list memberships of associations (such as industry           our company, page 4.
              associations) and national or international advocacy
              organizations in which the organization participates in
              projects or committees.

identified material aspects and boundaries
g4-17         a. list all entities included in the organization’s          annual report form 10-k.
                 consolidated financial statements or equivalent
                 documents.
              b. report whether any entity included in the
                 organization’s consolidated financial statements or
                 equivalent documents is not covered by the report.
              the organization can report on this standard disclosure
              by referencing the information in publicly available
              consolidated financial statements or equivalent
              documents.
g4-18         a. explain the process for defining the report content       about this report, page 3.
                 and the aspect boundaries.
              b. explain how the organization has implemented the
                 reporting principles for defining report content.
g4-19         list all the material aspects identified in the process      about this report, page 3, corporate responsibility and
              for defining report content.                                 sustainability strategy, page 7.
g4-20         a. for each material aspect, report the aspect               materiality assessment, page 6.
                 boundary within the organization, as follows:
                 • report whether the aspect is material within the
                   organization
                 • if the aspect is not material for all entities within
                   the organization (as described in g4-17), select
                   one of the following two approaches and report
                   either:
                   -- the list of entities or groups of entities
                       included in g4-17 for which the aspect is not
                       material or
                   -- the list of entities or groups of entities
                       included in g4-17 for which the aspects is
                       material
                 • report any specific limitation regarding the
                   aspect boundary within the organization




                                                                                                                                                             23

gri content index g4 cont.
general
standard                                                                                                                                    external
disclosures   disclosure requirements                                     reference/response                                                assurance
identified material aspects and boundaries
g4-21         for each material aspect, report the aspect boundary        materiality assessment, page 6.
              outside the organization, as follows:
                 • report whether the aspect is material outside of
                   the organization
                 • if the aspect is material outside of the
                   organization, identify the entities, groups of
                   entities or elements for which the aspect is
                   material. in addition, describe the geographical
                   location where the aspect is material for the
                   entities identified
                 • report any specific limitation regarding the
                   aspect boundary outside the organization
g4-22         report the effect of any restatements of information        our current report does not include restatements of information
              provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such      provided in previous reports.
              restatements.
g4-23         report significant changes from previous reporting          no significant changes.
              periods in the scope and aspect boundaries.

stakeholder engagement
g4-24         provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the         stakeholder engagement, page 5.
              organization.
g4-25         report the basis for identification and selection of        stakeholder engagement, page 5.
              stakeholders with whom to engage.
g4-26         report the organization’s approach to stakeholder           stakeholder engagement, page 5.
              engagement, including frequency of engagement
              by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication
              of whether any of the engagement was undertaken
              specifically as part of the report preparation process.
g4-27         report key topics and concerns that have been               stakeholder engagement, page 5.
              raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the
              organization has responded to those key topics and
              concerns, including through its reporting. report the
              stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics
              and concerns.

report profile
g4-28         reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for      about this report, page 3.
              information provided.
g4-29         date of most recent previous report (if any).               about this report, page 3.

g4-30         reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial).                 about this report, page 3.

g4-31         provide the contact point for questions regarding the       joseph lopez, svp of operations 954-828-2001,
              report or its contents.                                     jlopez@ddr.com.
g4-32         a. report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization       about this report, page 3.
                 has chosen.
              b. report the gri content index for the chosen option
              c. report the reference to the external assurance
                 report, if the report has been externally assured.
                 gri recommends the use of external assurance but
                 it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the
                 guidelines.
g4-33         report the organization’s policy and current practice       ddr does not utilize external assurance.
              with regard to seeking external assurance for the
              report.




                                                                                                                                                        24

gri content index g4 cont.
general
standard                                                                                                                             external
disclosures   disclosure requirements                                     reference/response                                         assurance
governance
g4-34         report the governance structure of the organization,        governance, pages 19-20.
              including committees of the highest governance body.
              identify any committees responsible for decision-
              making on economic, environmental and social
              impacts.
g4-35         report the process for delegating authority for             management approach dma, page 21.
              economic, environmental and social topics from the
              highest governance body to senior executives and
              other employees.
g4-36         report whether the organization has appointed an            management approach dma, page 21.
              executive-level position or positions with responsibility
              for economic, environmental and social topics, and
              whether post holders report directly to the highest
              governance body.
g4-41         report processes for the highest governance body to         corporate governance, pages 19-20.
              ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed.
              report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to
              stakeholders, including, as a minimum:
                 • cross-board membership
                 • cross-shareholding with suppliers and other
                   stakeholders
                 • existence of controlling shareholder
                 • related party disclosures
g4-47         report the frequency of the highest governance              monthly.
              body’s review of economic, environmental and social
              impacts, risks, and opportunities.
g4-52         report the process for determining remuneration.            corporate governance, pages 19-20, 2016 proxy statement.
              report whether remuneration consultants are involved
              in determining remuneration and whether they are
              independent of management. report any other
              relationships which the remuneration consultants
              have with the organization.

ethics and integrity
g4-56         describe the organization’s values, principles,             governance, pages 19-20.
              standards and norms of behavior such as codes of
              conduct and codes of ethics.
g4-58         report the internal and external mechanisms for             corporate governance, pages 19-20.
              reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful
              behavior, and matters related to organizational
              integrity, such as escalation through line management,
              whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines.




                                                                                                                                                 25

gri content index g4 cont.
specific standard disclosures
dma and
indicators   standard disclosure title                                    omissions   reference/response
material aspect: economic performance
g4-dma       generic disclosures on management approach                               management approach dma, page 21.

g4-ec1       a. report the direct economic value generated and                        annual report form 10-k.
                distributed (evg&d) on an accruals basis including
                the basic components for the organization’s global
                operations as listed below. if data is presented on a
                cash basis, report the justification for this decision
                and report the basic components as listed below:
                • direct economic value generated:
                   -- revenues
                • economic value distributed:
                   -- operating costs
                   -- employee wages and benefits
                   -- payments to providers of capital
                   -- payments to government (by country)
                   -- community investments
                • economic value retained (calculated as ‘direct
                   economic value generated’ less ‘economic value
                   distributed’)
             b. to better assess local economic impacts, report
                evg&d separately at country, regional, or market
                levels, where significant. report the criteria used for
                defining significance.
g4-ec2       report risks and opportunities posed by climate                          corporate responsibility and sustainability
             change that have the potential to generate substantive                   strategy, pages 7-12.
             changes in operations, revenue or expenditure,
             including:
                • a description of the risk or opportunity and its
                  classification as either physical, regulatory, or
                  other
                • a description of the impact associated with the
                  risk or opportunity
                • the financial implications of the risk or
                  opportunity before action is taken
                • the methods used to manage the risk or
                  opportunity
                • the costs of actions taken to manage the risk or
                  opportunity


environmental

material aspect: economic performance
g4-dma       generic disclosures on management approach                               management approach dma, page 21.

g4-en3       a. report total fuel consumption from non-renewable                      solar power generation, page 8.
                sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types
                used.
             b. report total fuel consumption from renewable fuel
                sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types
                used.
             c. report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total:
                • electricity consumption
                • heating consumption
                • cooling consumption
                • steam consumption
             d. report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total:
                • electricity sold
                • heating sold
                • cooling sold
                • steam sold
             e. report total energy consumption in joules or
                multiples.
             f. report standards, methodologies, and assumptions
                used.
             g. report the source of the conversion factors used.




                                                                                                                                    26

gri content index g4 cont.
environmental

dma and
indicators   standard disclosure title                                       omissions   reference/response
material aspect: economic performance
g4-en4       a. report energy consumed outside of the organization,                      energy management, page 9.
                in joules or multiples.
             b. report standards, methodologies, and assumptions
                used.
             c. report the source of the conversion factors used.
g4-en5       a. report the energy intensity ratio.                                       ddr’s reported energy data is mainly related to
             b. report the organization-specific metric (the ratio                       outdoor/exterior lighting. intensity/efficiency is
                denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio.                              gauged the number of kwh per parking space.
             c. report the types of energy included in the intensity
                ratio: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all.
             d. report whether the ratio uses energy consumed
                within the organization, outside of it or both.

material aspect: water
g4-en6       a. report the amount of reductions in energy                                water conservation, page 11.
                consumption achieved as a direct result of
                conservation and efficiency initiatives, in joules or
                multiples.
             b. report the types of energy included in the
                reductions: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, and
                steam.
             c. report the basis for calculating reductions in energy
                consumption such as base year or baseline, and the
                rationale for choosing it.
             d. report standards, methodologies, and assumptions
                used.
g4-en8       a. report the total volume of water withdrawn from the                      all reported water data is derived from
                following sources:                                                       municipal water sources. water conservation,
                • surface water, including water from wetlands,                          page 11.
                    rivers, lakes, and oceans
                • ground water
                • rainwater collected directly and stored by the
                    organization
                • waste water from another organization
                • municipal water supplies or other water utilities
             b. report standards, methodologies, and assumptions
                used.
g4-en23      a. report the total weight of hazardous and non-                            waste diversion, page 12.
                hazardous waste, by the following disposal methods:
                • reuse
                • recycling
                • composting
                • recovery, including energy recovery
                • incineration (mass burn)
                • deep well injection
                • landfill
                • on-site storage
                • other (to be specified by the organization)
             b. report how the waste disposal method has been
                determined:
                • disposed of directly by the organization or
                   otherwise directly confirmed
                • information provided by the waste disposal
                   contractor
                • organizational defaults of the waste disposal
                   contractor
g4-en29      a. report significant fines and non-monetary sanctions                      ddr did not receive any fines during the
                in terms of:                                                             reporting period.
                • total monetary value of significant fines
                • total number of non-monetary sanctions
                • cases brought through dispute resolution
                    mechanisms
             b. where organizations have not identified any
                non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief
                statement of this fact is sufficient.




                                                                                                                                              27

gri content index g4 cont.
social // labor practices and decent work

dma and
indicators   standard disclosure title                                    omissions   reference/response
material aspect: employment
g4-la2       a. report the benefits which are standard for full-time                  people, pages 13-15.
                employees of the organization but are not provided
                to temporary or part-time employees, by significant
                locations of operation. these include, as a minimum:
                • life insurance
                • health care
                • disability and invalidity coverage
                • parental leave
                • retirement provision
                • stock ownership
                • others
             b. report the definition used for ‘significant locations
                of operation’.

material aspect: occupational health and safety
g4-la6       a. report types of injury, injury rate (ir), occupational                there were no work related injuries reported
                diseases rate (odr), lost day rate (ldr), absentee                    during the period. therefore, there were no lost
                rate (ar) and work-related fatalities, for the total                  days or absenteeism.
                workforce (that is, total employees plus supervised
                workers), by:
                • region
                • gender
             b. report types of injury, injury rate (ir), occupational
                diseases rate (odr), lost day rate (ldr), absentee
                rate (ar) and work-related fatalities for independent
                contractors working on-site to whom the
                organization is liable for the general safety of the
                working environment, by:
                • region
                • gender
             c. report the system of rules applied in recording and
                reporting accident statistics.

material aspect: training and education
g4-la9       report the average hours of training that the                            people, pages 13-15. all ddr employees receive
             organization’s employees have undertaken during the                      annual performance reviews.
             reporting period, by:
                • gender
                • employee category
g4-la11      report the percentage of total employees by gender                       people, pages 13-15. 100% of ddr employees
             and by employee category who received a regular                          receive annual performance reviews.
             performance and career development review during the
             reporting period.

material aspect: diversity and equal opportunity
g4-la12      a. report the percentage of individuals within the                       corporate governance, pages 19-20. all ddr
                organization’s governance bodies in each of the                       members are non-minority.
                following diversity categories:
                • gender
                • age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old,
                    over 50 years old
                • minority groups
                • other indicators of diversity where relevant
             b. report the percentage of employees per employee
                category in each of the following diversity categories:
                • gender
                • age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old,
                    over 50 years old
                • minority groups
                • other indicators of diversity where relevant

material aspect: supplier assessment for labor practices
g4-la14      report the percentage of new suppliers that were                         ddr did not conduct screenings. our code
             screened using labor practices criteria.                                 of conduct and contract language define
                                                                                      acceptable practices.




                                                                                                                                         28

gri content index g4 cont.
social // human rights

dma and
indicators   standard disclosure title                                omissions   reference/response
material aspect: non-discrimination
g4-hr3       a. report the total number of incidents of                           people, pages 13-15.
                discrimination during the reporting period.
             b. report the status of the incidents and the actions
                taken with reference to the following:
                • incident reviewed by the organization
                • remediation plans being implemented
                • remediation plans have been implemented
                   and results reviewed through routine internal
                   management review processes
                • incident no longer subject to action

social // society
material aspect: anti-corruption
g4-so4       report the total number and percentage of governance                 ddr reviews its code of conduct each
             body members that the organization’s anti-corruption                 year. 100% of our employees receive and
             policies and procedures have been communicated to,                   acknowledge receipt annually.
             broken down by region.

social // product responsibility
material aspect: customer health and safety
g4-pr1       report the percentage of significant product and                     as part of ddr's operating policies and
             service categories for which health and safety impacts               procedures, our properties are inspected on an
             are assessed for improvement.                                        ongoing basis for health and safety impacts,
                                                                                  i.e. roof inspections, building inspections, fire/
                                                                                  life safety inspections and general liability
                                                                                  inspections. in addition, ddr also conducts
                                                                                  environmental assessments on acquisitions,
                                                                                  development projects and ongoing monitoring
                                                                                  for sites previously identified for remediation
                                                                                  activities.




                                                                                                                                       29
