d
    e
        n
            t
                s
                    u

                        i
                            n
                                t
                                    e
                                        g
                                            r
                                                a
                                                    t
                                                        e
                                                            d

                                                                r
                                                                    e
                                                                        p
                                                                            o
                                                                                r
                                                                                    t

                                                                                        2
                                                                                            0
                                                                                                1
                                                                                                    6

                                                                                  contents



about dentsu




     key figures                     key strategies                        features
  ▼




                                 ▼




                                                                        ▼
   key figures of the dentsu group (cy2015)



          gross profit                                                                   gross profit international business ratio


          ¥    761.9 billion                                                             54.3 %
          organic growth rate (gross profit)                                             organic growth rate (international business)


          7.0 %                                                                          9.4 %
          january to december 2015, yoy                                                  january to december 2015, yoy




          gross profit digital domain ratio                                              underlying operating profit operating margin


          34 %
          gross profit digital domain growth rate
                                                                                         21.1 %
          +22.2 % (japan)
          +24.8 % (international)
          january to december 2015, yoy                                                  january to december 2015




          share of the japanese advertising market                                       operating area


                                                                                         over     140    countries and
                                                                                         territories around the world
          25 %                                                                           number of employees



          note: under jgaap, net sales are calculated in calendar 2015.
                                                                                         47,324
                sources: advertising and economy, current situation of japanese
                advertising agencies and 2015 advertising expenditures in japan
                (dentsu)                                                                 as of december 31, 2015




   dentsu integrated report 2016                                                  001

                                                                   contents



about dentsu




   business domains
   the dentsu group is a marketing communications enterprise. its business involves determining
   the essence of a client’s issues and designs, before proposing and implementing an integrated
   communications plan that realizes true solutions.
       with the acquisition of aegis in march 2013 and establishment of dentsu aegis network (dan),
   the group has become a truly global network, with around 47,000 professionals in more than 140
   countries (as of the end of december 2015). the group offers the best integrated solutions for clients,
   not only in japan, but also in the global market.
       as a solutions partner responding to the challenges faced by its clients, the group provides a
   diverse range of services. with the communications domain at its core, it is engaged in a wide range
   of business activities, from corporate management and operating solutions to the implementation of
   marketing and communications strategies.
       moreover, to meet the changing needs of society, the environment, and consumer lifestyles, the
   group’s service sphere is expanding to cover an array of solutions that address societal issues.




   dentsu group corporate philosophy


   statement                                                            slogan

   ideas that reach beyond the imaginable.
   technology that crosses the bounds of possibilities.
   entrepreneurship that surpasses the expected.
   three sources of strength, driving our innovation,
   bringing positive change to people and society.




   the three elements of innovation
                                                                                         entrepreneurship
   entrepreneurship
   + ideas
   + technology
                                                                                 ideas                technology




   by “innovation,” we mean much more than just technological innovation.
   we mean generating new value for people and society through a wide variety of changes.


                                                                  002                                              dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                     contents



about dentsu




     key figures                   key strategies                features
  ▼




                              ▼




                                                                 ▼
   dentsu 2017 and beyond: medium-term management plan’s major achievements, strategy



                                                                            strategic themes
                                                                            1. diversifying the portfolio on a global basis



                                                                            - steady performance of our core japan business

                    behind the figures                                      - continuous growth in our international business
                                                                            - management able to lead the growth of our
                                                                                international business
                                                                            - increasing new business to leverage our group
                                                                                synergies




          2. evolving and expanding in the digital domain                   3. re-engineering business processes and
                                                                                 improving profitability



          through acquisitions, we accelerate the enhancement               - continued cost control
          of our capability and service quality in new and                  - expansion of the fee element of our business
          developing areas, including brand commerce, content               - japan business: restructuring of the value chain
          marketing, experiential marketing, data analytics, and
          customer relationship management (crm).




          4.	 reinforcing the business platform in the                      strengthening corporate social responsibility
               core japanese market                                         globally



          - develop our digital solution capability, including              the group formulated the dentsu group medium-term
           marketing intelligence and data                                  csr strategy 2020 in december 2015. this strategy
          - seek growth opportunities by contributing to the                involves setting targets for 2020 in the four key areas
           revitalization of japan                                          of environment, community, supply chain, as well as
                                                                            responsible marketing and sustainable consumption.




   dentsu integrated report 2016                                     003

                                                                     contents



about dentsu




   the spread of digital and social media in recent years, as well as changes in patterns of consumer
   behavior and the evolution of technologies, have changed the relationship between companies and
   consumers in the area of marketing. as a result, it has become difficult for companies to succeed
   without organically linking each marketing process and individual measure although, in the past, these
   had functioned separately. in other words, enterprises require increasingly more focused strategies
   and tactics in order to make their marketing activities more effective.
        in an environment in which marketing convergence is progressing, the group will enjoy more
   opportunities for growth. and, as marketing convergence develops, greater value will attach to
   its integrated abilities, which are based on platforms that include: (1) a diversified data platform;
   (2) intelligence that leads to accurate insights; (3) ideas and planning that improve the effects of
   companies’ overall marketing activities; and (4) the utilization of various possibilities brought about by
   technological developments.
        under the medium-term management plan dentsu 2017 and beyond, which began in 2013, we
   exercise such competences more strongly in the global arena and aim to evolve into the world’s most
   advanced global network—one that helps improve the corporate value of all our clients, beyond
   national and regional borders.




   dentsu 2017 and beyond: our goal


   to evolve into a truly global network
   at the forefront of marketing convergence

   innovation × reinvention


   we aim to become the world’s most advanced global network,
   leading marketing convergence and innovation and providing
   solutions that contribute to improving the corporate value of all our clients.




                                                                    004                                         dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                            contents



about dentsu




     key figures                   key strategies                       features
  ▼




                             ▼




                                                                    ▼
   dentsu 2017 and beyond: determination to promote the plan



          we will create new social values by improving                            we will further diversify the portfolio on a global
          our problem-solving and revenue-generating                               basis, while focusing on the digital area.
          capabilities.




                                                                                                       tim andree
                                                                                                       director and executive vice president,
                                   tadashi ishii                                                       dentsu inc.
                                   representative director                                             executive chairman,
                                   president & ceo                  p.007                              dentsu aegis network                p.023
                                                                    ▲




                                                                                                                                          ▲
          we will maintain the positive momentum and                               we will increase profits by proactive investment in
          further strengthen digital economy solutions.                            the growing business domain, while maintaining
                                                                                   and improving profitability.




                                                                                                       shoichi nakamoto
                                   jerry buhlmann                                                      director and
                                   executive officer, dentsu inc.                                      senior executive vice president,
                                   ceo, dentsu aegis network        p.025                              cfo                                p.008
                                                                    ▲




                                                                                                                                          ▲




          we aim to create new values for japan, from                              we will improve environmental, social, and
          where we will disseminate them.                                          governmental values in conjunction with our
                                                                                   business activities, in the pursuit of a better society.




                                   yoshio takada                                                       kunihiro matsushima
                                   director and                                                        chair of the csr committee,
                                   executive vice president         p.018                              director                           p.045
                                                                    ▲




                                                                                                                                          ▲




   dentsu integrated report 2016                                            005

                                                                                    contents



about dentsu




   001 about dentsu                                                                     editorial policy
   		 key figures                                                                       as an integrated report for the first year, this report covers both financial
   		 key strategies                                                                    and non-financial reporting and illustrates medium- to long-term value and
   		features                                                                           sustainability of the company.
   		 ceo message
   		 cfo message                                                                       target audience
                                                                                        all stakeholders including shareholders and investors
   		 road to value creation
   		 – review of fy2015 and the medium-term management plan

                                                                                        reference guidelines
   014     special feature: the dentsu group’s capability to create values
                                                                                        iirc (international integrated reporting council)
             value creation                                                             the international integrated reporting framework
                a solid business foundation in japan
             boosting value in our japan business                                       gri (global reporting initiative)
                digital                                                                 sustainability reporting guidelines, version 4 (g4)
                sports marketing
             [international] source of value-creating capability
                diversifying the portfolio on a global basis                            period covered by the report
                transformation to adapt to the digital economy                          centered on activities during fiscal 2015 (april 1, 2015
                                                                                        through december 31, 2015), but also describes some activities from
             [international] capability to increase the value-creating capability
                                                                                        preceding or more recent periods.
                m&a strategy to accelerate growth
                business expansion of the dentsu group
             boosting international value                                               organizations covered
                network brand                                                           dentsu inc. and dentsu group companies

   034 corporate governance
                                                                                        publication date
   		 the dentsu group’s management structure
                                                                                        september 2016
   		 dentsu’s corporate governance implementation structure
                                                                                        (next edition scheduled for publication in june 2017)
   		   response to implementation of the corporate governance code
   		 communication with shareholders and investors
   		 dentsu group internal controls                                                    contact info
   		 information security                                                              csr department, legal division, dentsu inc.
   		 compliance promotion                                                              tel: +81-3-6216-8718 fax: +81-3-6217-5709
                                                                                        email: dentsucsr@dentsu.co.jp
   044 sustainability
   		 message of the chairperson of csr committee                                       investor relations department, executive office, dentsu inc.
   		 dentsu group csr                                                                  tel: +81-3-6216-8015
   		 social responsibility report                                                      email: irmail@dentsu.co.jp
   		 environmental report
   		 dentsu aegis network csr activities
   		 data summary

   074 financial report
   		 consolidated operating highlights (ifrs)                                            forward-looking statements

   		 management’s discussion and analysis of financial position
                                                                                          this integrated report contains statements that constitute “forward-
   		 and operating results
                                                                                          looking statements” regarding the intent, belief or current expectations
   		 consolidated financial statements
                                                                                          of dentsu inc. or its management with respect to the results of operations
                                                                                          and financial condition of dentsu or the dentsu group. such forward-
   146 corporate data                                                                     looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and
   		 subsidiaries and affiliates                                                         involve risks and uncertainties. actual results may differ from those in the
   		history                                                                              forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. the information
   		 board members/management                                                            contained in this integrated report identifies important factors that could
   		 information for shareholders                                                        cause such differences. these forward-looking statements speak only as
   		 share information                                                                   of the date hereof. dentsu disclaims any obligation to update or publicly
                                                                                          announce any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect
   		 fiscal year 2015 under review
                                                                                          future events, conditions or circumstances.
   		 third-party evaluation and share price changes



                                                                                006                                                    dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                         contents



about dentsu




   ceo message



                                                     creating new social values




                                                     tadashi ishii
                                                     representative director
                                                     president & ceo




   the business environment surrounding the dentsu group is continuously and significantly transforming
   with an emphasis on two keywords—global and digital. furthermore, our clients and a wide variety
   of business partners are working toward various innovations. these innovations harness the ever-
   growing power of digital technology and include new business development, and business structure
   and business model innovation.
       the series of changes extended to all areas pose a threat to us. however, they also bring significant
   opportunities for the dentsu group to achieve further growth.
       the broad sense of creative capability that supports the fundamental element of the dentsu
   group can be effectively demonstrated not only in media business, but also in other areas, such as
   marketing, promotion, entertainment and sports. in addition, the recent environmental changes, as
   typified by digitalization, are dramatically expanding the scope and areas where we can demonstrate
   the creative capability we have cultivated over the years.
       by incorporating the various environmental changes progressing on a global scale as the driving
   force for our evolution and growth, we can deliver the dentsu group’s unique solutions in combination
   with our creative capability—a capability that has been heightened to date—and a variety of
   imagination, technical capabilities, and expertise. to create such unique solutions, and execute them,
   steadily offers a source of differentiation that gives the dentsu group an edge over our competitors,
   such as specialized digital agencies and consulting firms.
       furthermore, the target field of our solutions is no longer limited to the field of communication. i
   firmly believe that the role we should play is to evolve into a partner that can support client success and
   social advancement from multiple angles, by developing and executing myriad innovative, creative
   solutions for the success of our clients’ various businesses and to address diverse social problems.
       “good innovation.” the dentsu group’ s corporate philosophy, encapsulates the strong group-
   wide drive to create new value and lead the way toward transformation while emphasizing our
   commitment to supporting innovation within business enterprises and society.
       the dentsu group, having a global network across over 140 countries and territories, will continue
   to accumulate a history of innovation to tackle challenges worldwide, undertake innovation toward
   the creation of new social values, and meet the expectations of all stakeholders.




   dentsu integrated report 2016                                        007

                                                                        contents



about dentsu




   cfo message



                                                    pursuing sustainable profit growth




                                                    shoichi nakamoto
                                                    director and
                                                    senior executive vice president & cfo




   consolidated financial highlights (calendar year basis) and performance outlook for fiscal 2016
   the performance of the dentsu group remained favorable in cy2015. the group posted a gross profit
   of ¥761.9 billion (a year-on-year increase of ¥8.51 billion) and, factoring in the effect of acquisitions
   and exchange rates, the organic gross profit growth rate was 7.0%. the underlying operating profit
   increased to ¥160.4 billion (up 20.3% year on year), and the underlying operating margin rose 1.4
   percentage points year on year to 21.1%.
       the group’s japan business remained brisk, with the gross profit marking a year-on-year increase
   of 4.3% (including a 3.9% rise in organic growth), reflecting the contribution of sponsorship sales
   associated with the tokyo 2020 olympic and paralympic games.
       meanwhile, international business continued to show high growth, with 20.6% year-on-year
   growth in gross profit (including organic growth of 9.4%) reflecting the effects of m&a projects and
   the contribution of new clients in addition to the strong business momentum maintained in europe,
   the middle east and africa, as well as the asia pacific region, excluding japan.
       with regard to the consolidated performance outlook for fiscal 2016, we forecast a gross profit of
   ¥768.7 billion (up 0.9% year on year) and ¥104.5 billion in underlying operating profit (down 7.8% year
   on year).

   capital management strategy and return to shareholders
   in order for the group’s corporate value to improve sustainably and continue to meet shareholder
   expectations, despite intensifying competition worldwide, it is extremely important that the group
   develop and reinforce its business foundations. this will enable it to enhance its integrated and
   professional capabilities, as well as promote the acquisition and creation of new growth opportunities.
       in recognition of the above, our top priority is to continue investing in growth domains in the
   pursuit of sustainable profit growth. further, we plan to steadily enhance capital efficiency in order
   to provide our shareholders with a comprehensive return. this we will achieve by combining long-
   term improvement in shareholder value through business growth, together with ongoing and stable
   dividend payments, and flexible share repurchases.
       for the fiscal 2015 dividend, we decided to pay out ¥75 per share, with an interim dividend of ¥35,
   and a year-end dividend of ¥40. the decision was made after careful consideration of the current fiscal
   year’s operating results; the medium- and long-term performance forecast; and our financial status,
   bearing in mind future investment plans and our financial soundness.
       your continued understanding and support for the dentsu group’s management is highly
   appreciated.




                                                                      008                                      dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                    contents



about dentsu




   road to value creation
   - review of cy2015 and the medium-term management plan


   changes in the business environment, driven by globalization and digitalization, are forcing big
   changes in the advertising industry and its business model. these circumstances and the acquisition
   of aegis group plc (currently dentsu aegis network ltd.) in march 2013 have enabled the dentsu
   group to evolve into a truly global network. we thus took the opportunity to formulate a medium-
   term management plan, dentsu 2017 and beyond, that is to run from fy2013 to fy2017.
       in recent years, given the numerous technological advances and changing consumer behavior, it
   has become difficult for many companies to achieve satisfactory results from marketing activities in
   the absence of coordinated initiatives. our medium-term management plan is designed to evolve
   into a world-class global network, contributing to raising corporate value for all clients. accordingly,
   we see the promotion of our plan as leading to value creation.
       the following summarizes the medium-term management plan’s progress and achievements
   by fiscal 2015 year-end, which marked the plan’s halfway point. we also consider the group’s future
   outlook.

   progress, achievements, future outlook
   part 1: evolving into a global network
   steady performance of core japan business
   the gross profit resulting from our cy2015 business in the japan market was brisk at ¥348.2 billion
   (up 4.3% year on year, with organic growth up 3.9% year on year). since the establishment of dentsu
   aegis network (dan), the expansion of japanese companies’ operations abroad and the entry of
   foreign companies into the japanese market have enabled us to expand our business both at home
   and abroad. we will continue to work aggressively to acquire new accounts in all markets, and to
   enhance our competitiveness as a global network with a solid business foundation in japan. (for more
   information on key initiatives in japan, please refer to pages 17–22.)

   continued high growth in our international business
   during cy2015, our gross profit of ¥157.1 billion (a year-on-year increase of 15.4%, including a 12.2%
   hike in organic growth) that resulted from overseas business significantly outperformed market growth,
   underpinned by the strong business momentum in europe, the middle east, and africa. meanwhile,
   in the asia pacific region, excluding japan, we recorded a profit of ¥117.5 billion (a 23.5% year-on-year
   surge that included an 11.4% rise in organic growth).
        in the americas, the organic growth rate rose 4.9% year on year, slightly less than the market
   growth rate. this was the result of, among other things, the renewal of large-account contracts.
   however, there was a 24.6% year-on-year rise in the gross profit to ¥139.3 billion, reflecting the
   significant contribution of m&as.
        the group’s strong momentum is supported by our smooth integration of the former aegis
   group, as well as the progress of dentsu group-wide collaboration. the leadership team of the
   former aegis entity remains in the integrated network, where it is helping to drive our growth and
   support the enlarged group’s momentum. (please refer to comments by the general manager of
   international business on pages 23–26.)




   dentsu integrated report 2016                                   009

                                                                                                         contents



about dentsu




   enhanced competitiveness of our global network
   with the acquisition of aegis, the consolidated gross profit of the dentsu group almost doubled from
   the figure recorded in fy2013. with the continued momentum and our group’s steadily expanding
   gross profit, international business accounted for 54% in cy2015, the global network having some
   47,000 professionals in more than 140 countries.
       we continue to improve our operating model one p&l, which has been applied in all our
   businesses outside of japan, and have already introduced a next-generation model in some regions.
   (for more information on one p&l, please also refer to page 31.)
       we intend to continue promoting personnel exchanges between our japan and international
   businesses, mainly in the growing digital field, as well as to use innovation to strengthen our
   competitiveness as a global network.


   international business ratio*/no. of countries and territories

    (billion yen)
             800                                                               150



                   600
                                                                               100
    gross profit




                                                                                      no. of countries




                   400

                                                                                50
                   200                                                 54％
                                                        51％
                                         48％

                           15％
                      0                                                          0
                          fy2012        fy2013        fy2014         cy2015

                   ■ international business   ■ japan business   ◆ no. of countries


   * international business ratio is on a gross profit basis. for more information,
     please refer to page 75.




                                                                                                         010        dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                            contents



about dentsu




   progress, achievements, future outlook
   part 2: continuation of industry-leading organic growth
   we continue to achieve steady organic growth in many areas, while the organic growth of the entire
   group still outperforms that of our competitors.
      as well as the solid acquisition of new contracts, many major clients continue to award us
   contracts without requiring us to go through the contract bidding process. the resulting business
   expansion, which contributes to our organic growth, shows that clients appreciate our group’s
   performance. (for more information on performance and key initiatives in japan and each overseas
   region, please refer to pages 17–22 and 23–28.)
      in the fast-growing digital domain, both our japan and international businesses achieved
   double-digit growth in gross profit for fy2015, with year-on-year increases of 22.2% and 24.8%,
   respectively.

   progress, achievements, future outlook
   part 3: maintaining and improving high operating margin
   the dentsu group’s operating margin has outperformed that of its competitors, as the group has
   continued to boost its japan business and improve its international business margins.
       particularly in fy2015, the consolidated margin improved significantly because our international
   business started to see the effects of its first-phase business platform development, to which our
   group companies in japan made a significant contribution. we will continue to restructure our value
   chain, including our group companies.
       in fy2016, we will keep investing in improving our medium-term competitiveness, and further
   strengthening the level of our business platform across the group. through ongoing initiatives,
   we aim to maintain a consolidated operating margin of 20% or higher, which is one of the current
   medium-term management plan’s key performance indicators.


   organic growth*                                           operating margin*

            (%)                                                       (%)
              8                                                        25



               6                                                      20



               4                                                      15



               2                                                      10



               0                                                        0
                   fy2013      fy2014        cy2015                          fy2013      cy2014       cy2015

       ◆ dentsu consolidated     ● peer mega group average       ◆ dentsu consolidated     ● peer mega group average


   * organic growth is on a gross profit basis. for more     * operating margin is on an underlying operating profit basis.
     information, please refer to page 75.                     for more information, please refer to page 75.




   dentsu integrated report 2016                                        011

                                                                   contents



about dentsu




   progress, achievements, future outlook
   part 4: measures to attain sustainable growth
   m&as to set up businesses abroad
   m&as are important means of establishing foundations for sustainable growth. between our
   acquisition of aegis in march 2013 and the end of 2015, we conducted 76 m&a transactions, for a
   total value of some £760 million. by the end of fy2015, our m&a activities had contributed some £90
   million to the group’s profits, while m&as accounted for 43% of our total business transactions.


   m&a outside japan (from april 2013 to december 2015)



         760m£               76transactions                  91m£                     43%
         m&a investment            no. of m&a             contribution of m&a    digital domain ratio in
                                   transactions            investment to pbt       m&a investment
                                                                 (2015)



   capability enhancement through m&as continues
   since fy2015, we have expanded our acquisition targets in the digital domain to include not only
   digital media, but also new areas of business. thus, we have acquired companies in rapidly growing
   domains such as content marketing, experiential marketing, e-commerce solutions, mobile business,
   crm, and data analytics. (our m&a strategy and three case examples are described on pages 29–30.)
   we believe that these rapidly growing business areas will become extremely important in japan.
       to better cope with changes in consumer behavior and accommodate the progress being made
   in the area of marketing convergence, one of the main growth strategies that we plan to develop is
   the enhancement of our capabilities overall through m&a transactions.

   japan market growth opportunities through accelerated digitalization
   we are working to derive growth opportunities in japan from marketing convergence, based on our
   strong competitiveness in the traditional domains of media content, creative work, and marketing.
   (for more information on our competitiveness in the japan market, please refer to pages 17 and 18.)
       our clients have urged us to broaden and merge these core competences with new capabilities
   such as crm, e-commerce, system solutions, and data analytics. in response to these demands, in
   january 2016 we formed a new organization by integrating and restructuring our professional services
   in the digital marketing domain, before spinning off the organization and setting up a new company,
   dentsu digital inc. (for more information, please refer to pages 19–20). through this company, we
   aim to gain further growth opportunities in the japanese market by providing one-stop service in all
   areas of digital marketing.




                                                                  012                                      dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                         contents



about dentsu




   seeking growth opportunities through the revitalization of japan
   in association with the tokyo 2020 olympic and paralympic games, there will be numerous world
   sports events held in japan before 2020 and beyond. moreover, action plans—including the vision of
   the future society brought by accelerated advancement of intelligence in ict, as well as infrastructure
   improvement in metropolitan tokyo—have been gaining momentum in the lead-up to 2020.
       through our commitment to these social projects, which are not purely in the advertising domain,
   we will contribute to their success, as well as to the development of innovation in japan and, ultimately,
   the revitalization of the japan brand.

   toward 2017
   as a result of the above-mentioned initiatives, we have made good progress in the medium-term
   management plan as we move toward achieving our 2017 key performance indicator goals.
      centered on our japan business, while making the best of the global coverage of dan, we
   continue to focus on innovation and new challenges to further expand our business. in addition, we
   plan to improve our integrated problem-solving and revenue creation abilities, in order to become a
   partner that supports its clients’ successes in diverse ways.


   progress of medium-term management plan (from fy2013 to fy2017)

                                                             fy2012                cy2015 (pro forma)                             fy2017
                                                             (actual)                         (actual)                            (target)

   gross profit
                                                                                                  7.0%                               3-5%
   organic growth rate

   gross profit
                                                                43%                              54.3%                       55% or higher
   international business ratio

   gross profit
                                                                24%                                 34%                      35% or higher
   digital domain*¹ ratio

   underlying operating profit
                                                                17%                              21.1%                       20% or higher
   operating margin*²

   note: the fiscal period of fy2012 is from april 1 to march 31. dentsu inc. and its subsidiaries with closing dates other than december 31
         changed their closing dates to december 31 in fiscal 2015.

   *1 digital domain: internet-related marketing services and the contracted development and sales, etc., of the it system
   *2 underlying operating profit operating margin: underlying operating profit ÷ gross profit × 100




   dentsu integrated report 2016                                                        013

                                                              contents



        special feature




t
    h
        e

                   d
                          e
                              n
                                  t
                                      s
                                          u

                                  c               g
                                      a               r
                                          p               o
                                              a               u
                                                  b                 p
                                                      i                  's
                                                          l
                                                               i
                                                                    t
                                                                         y
                                                          c
                                                              r                   t
                                                                    e                 o
                                                                         a
                                                                              t
                                                                                  e

                                                                                          v
                                                                                              a
                                                                                                  l
                                                                                                      u
                                                                                                           e
                                                                                                                s

                                                              014                                 dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                              contents



          special feature
                                                                                                                    output




the dentsu group’s capability to create values
                                                                                                              value creation


the dentsu group’s value creating process




                                                                     dentsu’s strengths
                                                                                                          the success of
                                                                                                          clients’ businesses



                                                input

                                                                    source of value creation


                                                                                                          contribution to an
                                              business
                                                                                                          affluent life through
                                              model                                                       communication



                                                                    global network
        social issues
        and business
                                                                         enhancing our
        challenges                         good innovation.           value-creating ability

                                                                                                          realization of a
                                              one p&l                                                     sustainable society


                                                                    capabilities
                                                                    by business domain
              development of resilient
              infrastructure and
              promotion of innovation

 digital shift in marketing activities
 of clients

              formulation of
              sustainable
              consumption and
              production patterns                                   personnel development
 changes in consumer behavior,
 diversified consumer needs,
 marketing communications, the
 impact of the activities on consumers,
                                           business domain                                                     ▶ medium-term management plan
 management of the social impact of
 the supply chain                                                                                                p.009-013


              climate change and
              mitigation                      integrated
              of its impact, etc.
                                            communication
 reduction of the environmental
                                                design                                         ▶ medium-term csr strategy 2020
 burdens of business activities
                                                                                                 p.049
              eradication of poverty and
              hunger, and elimination of
              domestic and interstate
              disparities
 expansion of the community to develop
 business activities on a global scale                                         ▶ corporate governance
                                                                                 p.035-043


dentsu integrated report 2016                                 015

                                                                 contents



       special feature




it is the dentsu group’s social mission to develop and implement a variety of solutions geared to the
success of our clients’ business. however, we are responsible for the success of not only their business,
but also of the social development and innovation of society as a whole.
      under the medium-term management plan dentsu 2017 and beyond, and by strengthening
its competitiveness in the digital domain, the group has taken on challenges that go beyond the
requirements of the traditional business framework. the group is also honing its integrated problem-
solving and revenue-generating capabilities, with a view to creating new social value.
      under the dentsu group medium-term csr strategy 2020, formulated in december 2015, we
provide responsible marketing communications services and engage in a wide range of csr activities
in collaboration with our business partners in the supply chain. by improving our environmental, social,
and governance value in conjunction with our business activities, we are pursuing the realization of a
better society.




                                                                016                                         dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                                contents



                           special feature




value creation: a solid business foundation in japan


competitiveness in the japanese market
the dentsu group’s leading position in japan derives from success in combining our creative and
execution capabilities with the creation of innovative solutions. the global platform has further
strengthened the business foundation of the group by capturing the untapped needs of major
japanese companies. these not only are dentsu inc.’s principal clients, but they are looking to expand
abroad. further, the group is deriving business acumen by fulfilling the requirements of major global
companies, those principal dan clients that are seeking to enter the japanese market.
    in addition to taking advantage of the impetus and activity related to sports events taking place
around japan, we continue to seek growth opportunities in our japan business by contributing to the
revitalization of the nation.


future movements, actions, and sports events taking place around japan

                                                           2016                  2017                   2018                  2019                  2020            2021 and beyond

                                                          sophistication of various services toward 2020 brought by accelerated advancement of intelligence in ict in future society

          movements and actions related to
                                                                          social infrastructure improvement toward the tokyo 2020 olympic and paralympic games
           tokyo 2020 and digital society

                                                                              expansion of content distribution on the internet (sports and entertainment, etc.)

                                                                             host for 2024                                host for 2026
                         olympic and paralympic games   rio (summer)                            pyeonchang (winter)                            tokyo (summer)      beijing (winter 2022)
                                                                             will be chosen                               will be chosen
                                                                                                                                                                       hangzhou
                                  asian games                              sapporo (winter)      jakarta (summer)
                                                                                                                                                                     (summer 2022)

                               fifa world cup™                                                         russia            france (women’s)                              qatar (2022)
 world sports events




                              fifa club world cup          japan                  uae                   uae

                             world championships
                                                                                london                                        doha                                    oregon (2021)
                                  in athletics

                         world aquatics championships                          budapest                                     gwangju                                  fukuoka (2021)

                              fivb volleyball world
                                                                                                 japan (women’s)
                                 championship

                                rugby world cup                                                                               japan

                                                                                                 commencement
                                                                                                     of practical
                       other major events inside and    g7 ise-shima      expo astana 2017                                                                           world masters
                                                                                                  broadcasting for                            expo 2020 dubai
                              outside japan               summit            (kazakhstan)                                                                           games kansai (2021)
                                                                                                 4k/8k ultra-high-
                                                                                                definition televisions




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                                  017

                                                                         contents



       special feature




                                 in japan, the dentsu group seeks not only to
                                 increase clients’ corporate value, but to disseminate
                                 it from japan around the world.



                                 yoshio takada
                                 director and executive vice president




the dentsu group has an extraordinary business model; it is neither a brand agency nor a media
agency. we deliver solutions to the myriad challenges clients face—a business model so distinctive
that it might be called “dentsu business.”
    through this model, we have fostered trusting relationships with more than 6,000 clients in japan,
built a solid business foundation, and made the japanese market into a very competitive stage.
    by making full use of ideas and digital technology, the group recently gained the ability to deliver
solutions with greater value. the following are just a few examples.
    • deeper digital connections between clients and consumers who enjoy the clients’ content, as
       well as new experiences and content
    • the provision of optimal content and advertisements for consumers by leveraging technologies,
       such as artificial intelligence
    • digital connections between clients and individuals, before the latter set off on a trip to japan

    in 2014, dentsu was designated the exclusive marketing agency for the tokyo organising
committee of the olympic and paralympic games (tokyo 2020). in connection with the games,
numerous nationwide initiatives—including those related to sports, culture, urban development and
technology—are planned to begin in the fall of 2016. by making positive commitments to clients’
business activities—not only as the exclusive marketing agency, but also as a leading solution
provider in japan—we continue to address social challenges in japan, thereby further enhancing the
underpinnings of our business and increasing our competitiveness.
    we aim to extend to the group’s global offices the solutions we hone in japan through our
business in connection with the 2020 games. in this way, we will further increase our corporate value,
while at the same time disseminating japan’s new value around the world.




                                                                         018                               dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                  contents



       special feature




boosting value in our japan business: digital


evolution of digital marketing in japan
amid the acceleration of the shift toward utilizing digital solutions in clients’ marketing activities,
needs in the advertising industry’s digital domain are becoming more diversified and sophisticated.
   the group continues to work to improve its capabilities and quality of service as the roles of
agencies continue to expand, encompassing the following functions.
   • programmatic trading in the media buying domain
   • provision of digital solutions, including creative and content-related services
   • data analysis for business decisions and consumer engagement strategies

    meanwhile, the integration of these functions is growing in importance. while advances in
digitalization and the evolution of various technologies are transforming patterns of consumer
behavior, the execution of integrated digital marketing—which organically links each marketing
process and individual step that, until now, functioned separately—is becoming the most crucial issue
for corporate marketing. thus, marketing services agencies such as the dentsu group are expected
to provide integrated and specialized support services.
    responding to the changing environment, dentsu restructured its digital-related functions and,
in january 2016, established the digital marketing center. in july 2016, we established dentsu digital
inc., a new specialist digital marketing company, by way of the digital marketing center absorbing
dentsu e-marketing one inc. and nextage dentsu inc. dentsu e-marketing one inc. specialized in
advertisement planning in the digital domain and business model support services; nextage dentsu
inc. mainly provided digital performance marketing services, such as performance-based advertising,
to expand the business of its clients.
    dentsu digital, in collaboration with other group companies, will focus on accelerating the capture
of demand for digital marketing in both the existing and expanding advertising markets.
    specifically, dentsu digital provides a wide range of services, including consulting, to improve
clients’ returns on investment. it utilizes digital marketing and integrated services that cover all facets
of business, from development to operation, in the fields of customer relationship management
(crm), owned media management, and e-commerce support. for major clients, we take advantage
of the group’s overall strength as we deliver consistent services, ranging from strategic planning to
implementation.


business domains of dentsu digital inc. - 3 features -

                                                                                                                                              provide advice to the
                                                                                                                                              client and support
                                                                                                                                              formulation of
                                                                                                                                              strategic alternatives
    consulting


                         social media mass publishing   audience     data of      event participants prospective     purchasing   customers
                             data          data           data      site visits         data        customers data      data        data      establishment of
                                                                                                                                              systems and
                                                                                                                                              incorporation of new
                                                                                                                                              functions and
 development and                                                                                                                              specifications
                                                                    marketing platform
  implementation
                                                                                                                                              continuously carry
                         data analysis        acquisition          social                owned                  ec site             crm       out and support
                                               measures                                  media                                                implementation of
                                                                                                                                              advertisement
                                                                                                                                              management, pdca
   management                                                                                                                                 cycle, contents
                                                                                                                                              marketing and others




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                     019

                                                                  contents



       special feature




                                 aiming to become a leading digital marketing
                                 company



                                 toshiya oyama
                                 executive officer, dentsu inc.
                                 ceo, dentsu digital inc.




the evolution of digital technology and devices has significantly changed consumer behavior, given
that all things and information are connected to the internet, as represented by the internet of things.
under such unprecedented environmental change, clients that previously focused on individual
marketing processes have started to focus on linking them organically at each stage, in an effort to
maximize effectiveness and efficiency.
    meanwhile, the internet’s mainly performance-based advertising has developed into media that
now is second only to television. at the same time, there has been a major expansion in digital market-
related spending outside the traditional advertising market—such as on business and it consulting,
big data analytics, as well as on support for marketing automation and e-commerce.
    given the circumstances, dentsu inc. established dentsu digital inc., a digital company that
provides one-stop digital marketing solutions.
    dentsu digital inc. provides such functions as consulting, development and implementation of
marketing initiatives, and operational and execution support for client companies pursuing digital
transformation. it also develops integrated customer journey solutions—discovery of potential
customers, customer acquisition, customer relationship management—and build platforms to
support them.
    further, dentsu inc. strives to provide solutions on a global scale in collaboration with dan by
accelerating technology development and data acquisition.
    in addition to investment activities and technological development to maintain state-of-the art
capabilities, dentsu digital acquires and develops digital marketing professionals with the right
experience and skills. by closely coordinating the experience and skills with dentsu’s distinctive
capabilities in marketing, creativity, and media—capabilities that competing consulting firms and it
companies cannot offer—we aim to become a leading digital marketing company in both name and
reality.




                                                                  020                                      dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                  contents



        special feature




boosting value in our japan business: sports marketing


creating impetus in japanese society
our many years of experience and achievements in the area of sports marketing are significant
factors in the group’s value creation. we believe this accomplishment is underpinned by our highly
esteemed, distinctive approach as an advertising agency that creates major impetus, centered on
excitement inspired by sports. we will continue to strengthen our activities and increase our outreach
to society through sports.



sports marketing that dentsu group is engaged in:




© tokyo marathon foundation                        © jfa national match against afghanistan, starting members,
                                                   march 24, 2016




dentsu integrated report 2016                                    021

                                                                 contents



       special feature




                                 we will contribute to clients’ business success and
                                 further the development of sports through sports-
                                 related solutions



                                 kiyoshi nakamura
                                 executive officer




the group is involved in a wide variety of sports events, from world-headlining events such as the
olympic games, fifa world cup™, and world championships in athletics to national events such
as the tokyo marathon.
     we maintain good long-term relationships with international sports governing bodies, including
the international olympic committee (ioc), international paralympic committee (ipc), fédération
internationale de football association (fifa), international association of athletics federations
(iaaf), and fédération internationale de natation (fina). these relationships have given us access
to an assortment of rights, such as broadcasting and marketing rights. in recent years, dentsu has
continued to expand its sports-related business, mainly through our successful efforts to secure
broadcasting rights from the ioc to sell to our clients in some parts of asia and central asia, and
through event production for the fifa club world cup in the middle east and africa.
     in japan, we are involved in the development and sale of broadcasting and marketing rights for
many sports organizations, including those of the japanese olympic committee (joc), with which
we enjoy a long relationship. with regard to football, we acquired not only the sponsorship package
for japan’s national team, but also exclusive rights to sell the broadcasting and marketing rights for j.
league professional football games.
     dentsu leverages its close business relationships with sports associations and federations in japan
and globally to offer clients exceptional, powerful solutions utilizing sports.
     as the tokyo 2020 olympic and paralympic games’ exclusive marketing agent, dentsu inc. has
taken on the major responsibility of contributing to the success of the games. it is providing support
in various areas, including the formulation of a marketing plan and conducting sponsorship sales.
     we will make every effort to create a legacy, so that the benefits of the games live on after 2020,
and strive to improve the significance of sports in this country. for the dentsu group, the paralympic
games are just the start of concerted efforts to contribute to the development of sports involving
challenged players.
     the rugby world cup will be held in japan in 2019, and the world swimming championships will
be held in fukuoka, japan, in 2021.
     the group has a record of managing numerous international sports events, as well as the
associated know-how. bringing together the abundant experience we have accumulated thus far, we
will support sports organizations and sponsor companies in order to ensure the success of sporting
events.




                                                                022                                         dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                          contents



       special feature




[international] source of value-creating capability: diversifying the portfolio
on a global basis

                                 diversifying the portfolio on a global basis
                                 progress and future strategy



                                 tim andree
                                 director and executive vice president, dentsu inc.
                                 executive chairman, dentsu aegis network




steady progress in diversifying the portfolio
the goal of the dentsu group is to evolve into a truly global network at the forefront of marketing
convergence—one of our strategic objectives toward this goal is “diversifying the portfolio on a
global basis.”
     our success to date in achieving this objective can be measured by the fact that we now operate
in around 140 countries, from just 27 in 2005, and employ over 47,000 people globally, from 14,500 in
2005. in addition, we now have a diversified geographic revenue profile with 46% of our gross profit
for the fiscal 2015 generated in japan, 20% in emea, 18% in the americas, and 16% in apac.
     as shown above, we are making steady progress in diversifying the portfolio; however, given the
fast-moving nature of our industry, we need to continuously drive toward this strategic ambition.

capability expansion in the digital domain
in the global advertising market, digital media is continuously growing. for 10 key markets—including
the uk, ireland, canada, and australia—digital has already become the principal media channel
for advertising expenditures, driven by the high demand for mobile and online video advertising,
especially across social media platforms, and the rise of programmatic buying.
     under such circumstances, the dentsu aegis network is expanding its digital capability portfolio
through acquisitions and by continuing to invest internally in hiring digital talent and supplementing
our product suite with cutting-edge digital tools.
     in japan, we established a new company, dentsu digital inc., which provides a total package for
clients across digital channels and platforms. dentsu digital collaborates with other key business units
to ensure our clients have access to the full suite of dentsu capabilities.

integration of newly acquired capabilities
according to carat’s latest forecasts for the industry outlook (published in september, 2016), global
advertising expenditure is expected to grow by 4.4% in 2016. this growth is primarily driven by the
continued solid growth of digital media (15.6%) with its share of adspend expected to be 27.7%
in 2016. on the other hand, television is expected to remain resilient with a steady 41.1% market
share forecast for 2016 as the upcoming olympic games and us elections are expected to drive
considerable viewership.
    importantly, advertisers continue to place significant emphasis on the integration of their marketing
plans across these media platforms. while continuing to invest in our digital capabilities, we will also
integrate the newly acquired capabilities and skills into the services and operating model of the
dentsu group. furthermore, we will enhance our global infrastructure by strengthening partnerships
with global media owners with an emphasis on mobile-centric, data-rich, and video-first.
    in this rapidly evolving and complex environment, through these efforts, the dentsu group can
continue to innovate for its clients, ensuring they have the best platforms.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                            023

                                                                contents



      special feature




continued promotion of intragroup talent migration
talent migration has been a key focus area for us in recent years. we have been successful in
sharing some of our key talent between dentsu inc. in tokyo and our global operations at dentsu
aegis network.
    much of our initial focus in this cross-knowledge transfer has been on the asia pacific region,
which has the most immediate synergy potential across the group. we now have over 150 dentsu
inc. employees, previously based in tokyo, working across all of our international operations, four of
whom manage the entire agency portfolios in those countries.
    in 2015, we initiated a pilot program to move some of our international talent to tokyo, and today,
we have a small number of people from dentsu aegis network working in tokyo. we will continue
to drive these liquid talent programs as they promote collaboration and enhance the potential for
cross- learning opportunities.




                                                               024                                        dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                      contents



       special feature




[international] source of value-creating capability: transformation to adapt to the
digital economy

                                 aiming at further growth and transformation to
                                 adapt to the digital economy



                                 jerry buhlmann
                                 senior vice president, dentsu inc.
                                 ceo, dentsu aegis network




progress of the digital economy fundamentally changes the existing business
the digital economy is the only growth certainty of the next five years. digitally enabled business
models, including omni-channel retail and the sharing and service economy, have become the
dominant economic form, while traditional business models continue to be significantly disrupted.
in the future, the most successful businesses will be those that can leverage the agility and speed of
the digital economy, where data will become the new currency of business and hyper-connectivity will
become even more predominant.
    this evolving environment will require businesses to develop and integrate systems, platforms,
and transversal workings within their organizations, supported by a significant change in culture.
ultimately, businesses will need digital economy solutions—such as strategic consult, data, analytics,
crm, and customer experience—in order to be truly successful in an increasingly agile and fast world.

focus on strategic objectives and maintaining strong momentum
given a digital economy that advances with increasingly fast-paced changes, the dentsu group must
maintain its positive momentum in operational and financial performance to remain well-positioned
to access high-growth segments, capabilities, and geographies for our clients.
    we will achieve this objective by continuing to outperform the peer group in organic revenue
growth and increasing our utilization of capital through a higher pace and volume of acquisition.
dentsu aegis network, while carrying out international business of the dentsu group, has consistently
outperformed the peer-group average, on an organic revenue basis, by a factor of 2x to 3x over the
last four years. dan’s outperformance has been achieved through (1) leveraging our global scale and
a consistent offering across our network, (2) ensuring an efficient and optimal utilization of capital—
with a particular emphasis on acquisitions, and (3) using a unique operating model, which ensures we
are truly differentiated from the peer group, and others.
    furthermore, a key driver of our peer group outperformance over this period is a significant and
consistent focus on our key strategic objectives:
    • increase exposure to growth markets and segments
    • build capability in the digital economy
    • transform and broaden service offerings across clients
    • grow international client base
    • leverage the content and media transformation value chain
    • lead, and outperform, in the top 20 markets
    • build a scalable organization through innovation




dentsu integrated report 2016                                         025

                                                               contents



      special feature




    by retaining our focus on these key strategic objectives, and targeting growth organically and
through acquisitions, we aim to continue and build upon the positive momentum we have achieved
in recent years. this momentum will help drive our business to the heart of the digital economy,
maximizing value and impact for our clients while creating value for our stakeholders across the key
value chains.

further growth and evolution by using one p&l
dentsu aegis network aims to realize a two-fold increase in revenue by 2020. during this timeframe,
we expect our business to become a 100% digital economy business.
    to support our growth aspirations, we will continue building a scalable organization with
an organizational structure that enables us to change rapidly. a key element of this is our unique
operating model, “one p&l.” one p&l is enabled by a 1p&l per market structure and drives our
integrated and specialized approach.
    to ensure we maintain our market leadership, we are implementing an evolved one p&l model
across the business. under the new model, we deliver broad systemization and integrated solutions
while our global network brands and specialist local brands continue to be our interface with clients.
the evolved one p&l model organizes our capabilities within the agency brands and enables our
agencies to focus on building end-to-end solutions in specific sections of key capability areas. the
organization will continue to be supported by a strong foundation of global platforms and global
functions.
    ultimately, our business will become a solutions business that drives consumer engagement
through to transaction with full data and insight integrity.




                                                               026                                       dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                               contents



       special feature




[international] capability to increase the value-creating capability: m&a strategy to
accelerate growth

                                 m&a strategy to accelerate growth of the global
                                 network




                                 nick priday
                                 cfo, dentsu aegis network




emphasis on business expansion through m&a
our capital utilization strategy is focused on prioritizing the deployment of capital to drive the
growth of the business—by investing in growing our organization and by delivering value-enhancing
acquisitions.
     acquisitions have helped to supplement our organic growth outperformance in recent years and
will help us to achieve the capability transformation required as we move to the center of the digital
economy.
     specifically, we will continue to focus on the following through m&a:
     • increasing exposure to faster-growing markets and segments
     • building our presence in north america and china
     • enhancing our service offerings, particularly across the digital landscape

clear strategy for acquisitions and target selection method
we have a clear strategy for acquisitions—we target scale, geographic and capability in-fill, and
innovation, focusing on digital in both emerging and major markets, particularly the us and china.
    within the digital area, we are focused on strategic consult, data, analytics, crm, performance
marketing, and customer experience acquisition targets. we will continue to acquire small- to mid-
sized bolt-on acquisitions while also looking at slightly larger deals.

there are a number of elements in acquisition targeting:
   • country management identifies and targets small, local deals.
   • global brand management supports local management with small- and mid-sized deals.
   • executive management is responsible for targeting mid- to large-sized strategic deals.

    all three teams are supported by central (london) and regional m&a teams. m&a teams manage
a pipeline of 50–60 active deals, and we have a monthly review by an m&a committee, chaired by
jerry buhlmann, ceo, dentsu aegis network. the teams are supported by well-established m&a
policies, practices, and procedures.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                  027

                                                                      contents



       special feature




successful m&a track record and management retention rate
since 2006, we have invested around £2 billion on over 200 acquisitions. we have a successful track
record of executing and integrating deals, supported by well-managed structures and processes, and
an experienced and integrated team. in addition, we have consistently delivered shareholder value
through acquisitions. we have delivered an average return on invested capital (roi) of 14.1% on a
portfolio basis from 2006 to 2014, which is more than double the dentsu inc.’s post-tax weighted-
average cost of capital (wacc).
    we also consider m&a an effective means to bring excellent talents into the group. in this regard,
we have a strong management retention record—with regard to acquisitions and investments since
2006, 71% of senior vendor management is still with the business. of that number, 88% has stayed
beyond earn-out expiry. in addition, around 50% of our senior operational management came into the
business through acquisitions. we believe the dentsu group is attractive for vendors as our operating
model enables quick integration and provides them with immediate opportunities.


dan’s acquisition investment


     (£m)
      400

                                               350.5


                                                                                                    296.3
      300                                                         290.4

                                                                                         254.0
                                                                              230.0


      200

                                                       143.8

                                103.7
      100
                         63.9

                                        35.8
               16.6

        0
              2006       2007   2008    2009   2010    2011       2012        2013       2014       2015

                                                       ■ initial consideration + earn-outs paid in the year




                                                                     028                                      dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                               contents



       special feature




[international] capability to increase the value-creating capability: business expansion
of the dentsu group

business expansion of the dentsu group
one area of our m&a focus is expansion of the services and acquisition of capabilities all across the
digital domain.
    the particularly important fields are the brand commerce field to maximize consumer engagement
through connections with various brands; the mobile field, which is growing rapidly worldwide; and
the content marketing field to lead the consumer purchasing behavior to the products and services
of client companies. the following examples illustrate the companies that the dentsu group has
acquired in recent years.




ecommera global limited (hereinafter “ecommera”) has strengths in the brand commerce field,
developing e-commerce solutions for major international retailers and consumer goods manufacturers,
as well as providing maintenance and consulting services. headquartered in london, ecommera’s
specialist team is active across the world, providing site management support for more than 150
e-commerce sites in 30 markets. furthermore, ecommera has established development centers in
bulgaria and india.
    the dentsu group will deepen the collaborative relationship between ecommera and isobar,
integrate their e-commerce solutions technology, brand-building capabilities based on creative
design and user experience, and consumer data analysis. this will contribute to maximizing the value
of client brands.


                                mark fagan
                                ceo, ecommera global limited


                                as part of the dentsu group, ecommera now has a much richer
                                offering in the field of digital commerce. we are able to leverage
                                isobar’s brand-building capability and global scale to provide
                                innovative best-in-class cross-channel solutions and guide clients
                                on their journeys to success in an increasingly interconnected and
                                complex brand commerce field.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                  029

                                                                         contents



      special feature




fetch media limited (hereinafter “fetch”) is a global full-service mobile agency specializing in mobile
media planning and buying, and is highly rated for its expertise in advertising planning proposals
that utilize mobile media and the buying of advertising space in particular. in addition to its london
headquarters, the agency currently has offices in the us, germany, and hong kong. it also has plans
to further expand its base.
    going forward, fetch will promote further collaboration with the dentsu group’s global network
brand companies specialized in mass media, digital media, ooh, creative, and other areas.


                               james connelly
                               co-founder and ceo, fetch media limited


                               our acquisition by dentsu aegis network was a logical next step for
                               fetch as we sought to deliver our ambitious growth plans and scale our
                               business globally. dentsu group has a proven track record of growing
                               digital businesses and a clear appreciation of the increasing importance
                               of mobile in the media landscape. as part of the dentsu group, we
                               remain fully focused on delivering world-class mobile capabilities on
                               behalf of an increasing number of mobile-centric clients.




uk-based branded content marketing agency john brown media group limited (hereinafter “john
brown media”) provides highly credited content marketing services, particularly in the digital domain,
to its portfolio of high-profile, multinational clients. in addition to its uk base, john brown media
has offices in south africa, hong kong, and dubai, facilitating the expansion of innovative content
marketing services on a global scale.
    the dentsu group has to date provided its clients with services in the digital performance domain
through iprospect, one of the group’s global network brands. the acquisition of john brown media,
one of the world’s leading branded content agencies, will strengthen the cooperative relationship that
the company already has with iprospect and other group companies, and contribute to maximizing
client roi through highly differentiated value-added solutions.


                               andrew hirsch
                               ceo, john brown media group limited


                               john brown media has been producing brilliant content for some of
                               the world’s most prestigious brands for the last 20 years. as part of
                               dentsu aegis network, we have the ability to work alongside some
                               of the world’s leading strategists to deliver smarter content and drive
                               even better results for our clients.



                                                                     030                                  dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                               contents



       special feature




boosting international value: network brand


dentsu group brands that enhance our capability
the group has a unique operating model designed for marketing convergence and globalization,
the major driving forces of the advertising world. this operating model is enabled by a one-p&l-
per-country structure (outside of japan), unique in the industry, which empowers our local teams
to offer high- value-added and integrated services to clients at a local level, supported by a global
infrastructure.
    key elements of this infrastructure are our nine global networks and six specialist/multimarket
agency brands, which deliver our integrated, specialist approach, supported by local agency brands
in certain countries.
    group companies collaborate seamlessly to achieve shared business goals, while our top-class
professionals from various fields are incentivized to collaborate across agencies and countries, thus
providing integrated, specialist client services.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                 031

                                                                      contents



     special feature




global network brands



                        carat
                        is the world’s largest media communications company with a presence in more than 100
                        countries. the company creates better business value for clients by maximizing media value.




                        dentsu brand agencies
                        advertising companies overseas with dentsu in the name are dentsu-branded agencies.
                        companies that specialize in a particular domain—such as digital, creative, pr, or consulting—
                        are specialized-domain agencies.



                        dentsu media
                        as dentsu’s overseas media agency network, dentsu media provides high-quality services to
                        clients around the world through three networks—media palette, media cubic, and media
                        matrix—and digital agency brands, including &c.




                        iprospect
                        is a digital performance marketing agency with a presence in 52 countries. the company
                        supports clients in maximizing online marketing roi.



                        isobar
                        is a digital agency, focusing on brand commerce, with a presence in more than 45 countries.
                        the company established the world’s largest global digital network by bringing together digital
                        technologies from all over the world. clients enjoy full support through isobar’s outstanding
                        digital marketing capabilities.



                        dentsu mcgarry bowen
                        never confined to existing methodologies or preconceptions, agency dentsu mcgarry bowen
                        always delivers unique insights and smart solutions. boasting an excellent reputation for
                        creative capabilities, the agency also puts effort into building new communication platforms.



                        mktg
                        is a lifestyle marketing agency that has an edge in the activation area, focusing on providing
                        consumers with brand experience and experienced value. dan will enhance and strengthen
                        mktg as a core company of the dentsu group’s lifestyle marketing services.



                        posterscope
                        is a media agency specializing in out-of-home (ooh) communications and has a presence
                        in about 30 countries. the company’s ooh development expertise is based on an insightful
                        grasp of the procurement behavior of consumers outside their homes.



                        vizeum
                        is a media agency with excellence in communication planning, particularly involving digital
                        media, and is active in more than 40 countries. the company works with other companies
                        within the dentsu aegis network to bring about innovative change in the ad communications
                        of its clients.




                                                                     032                                                  dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                            contents



       special feature




specialist/ multimarket brands



                                amnet
                                with a presence in 33 countries, amnet—the dentsu aegis network trading desk—organically
                                links all kinds of data to ensure more timely, perfectly targeted online advertising.




                                amplifi
                                this media investment company raises value across all media—from television to print,
                                digital, and radio—on a global basis, seeking to reinvent the supply side of media through
                                investments, partnerships, and real-time bidding.




                                data2decisions
                                this consulting company draws on all types of marketing data and analyzes what has worked
                                and what has not to maximize clients’ roi.



                                mitchell communications group
                                a communications and pr company, mitchell communications group boasts a diverse client
                                portfolio that includes some of the world’s top-tier corporations and high-profile brands.
                                covering a wide range of specialized fields, from consumer communications to corporate
                                public relations, this company is known for delivering innovative ideas.



                                360i
                                championing the fusion of search marketing and social marketing, 360i has earned top marks
                                in the industry as a next-generation digital agency.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                              033

                                           contents



corporate governance




 c
       o
              r
                   p
                       o
                           r
                               a
                                   t
                                       e


                                           g
                                                 o
                                                      v
                                                          e
                                                              r
                                                                  n
                                                                      a
                                                                          n
                                                                              c
                                                                                  e




                                           034                                dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                            contents



               corporate governance




the dentsu group’s management structure


the japan business is spearheaded by dentsu, while the international business is led by dentsu aegis
network (dan), which includes aegis’s and dentsu’s legacy international businesses.




management structure




                                                          tadashi ishii           shoichi nakamoto
                                                 representative director,         director,
                                                       president & ceo            senior evp, cfo




                  yoshio takada                                                                      tim andree             jerry buhlmann
                           director,                                                                       director,        senior vice president,
           executive vice president,                                                       executive vice president,        dentsu inc.
                        dentsu inc.                                                                     dentsu inc.         ceo,
                                                                                               executive chairman,          dentsu aegis network
                                                                                             dentsu aegis network




                                japan business                                                               international business




dentsu integrated report 2016                                               035

                                                                                          contents



                 corporate governance




dentsu’s corporate governance implementation structure


dentsu inc. (hereinafter the company), as a company with an audit and supervisory committee,
transfers authority for important business execution in part from the board of directors to the directors.
it thus achieves an expeditious, effective business execution system, and enhances the supervisory
function of directors through the board.
     as of march 30, 2016, the board comprises nine directors (of which three are independent,
outside directors), four of whom (three being outside directors) are audit and supervisory committee
members. among the factors considered in nominating members of the board of directors are
diversity in experience, insight, ability, and gender.
     further, dentsu has introduced a director and executive officer system to clarify roles and
responsibilities, and to reinforce the effectiveness of its management and operations systems.
     under the board of directors, we set up an executive management committee, comprising the
representative director, executive officers, and executive directors. this committee makes decisions on
important matters relating to management, and conducts preliminary deliberations on board resolutions.
     the supervisory committee and the executive management committee together ensure
the proper functioning of our business, making the principal operational decisions and so being
responsible for earnings.
     the company has divided its business into the japan and international business areas, under the
auspices of its business supervision committee and the dentsu aegis network board of directors,
respectively. the committee oversees revenue-related matters, while the board exercises overall
authority.

corporate governance structure

                                                                        general meeting of shareholders



                                   appointment/dismissal                                    appointment/dismissal                                         appointment/dismissal

                                                        cooperation                                                 audits
                                                                             audit and supervisory
                      independent auditors                                                                                                    board of directors
                                                                                  committee
                                                                                                                                           selection/
                                                                                                                                          supervision                                delegates
                                               requests cooperation
                                                                                             audit and supervisory                             representative
                                                                                              committee office                   audits
                                                                                                                                                  director
                                                   explanation
                                                                                 audits                                                                               selection/
                                                                                                                                                                      supervision




                                                                             respective divisions/
                       internal audit office                                                                                                  executive officers
                                                                            respective departments
                                                      internal audits

                                                                                                                                   executive management committee

                                                                           group companies in japan                                       delegates                      delegates
                                                      internal audits
                                                                                                                              key committee                    key committee
                                                                                                                                 sessions                         sessions
                                                                                                                             business supervision
                                                                                                                                                            dan board of directors
                                                                                                                                 committee

                                                                                                                              japan business                international business
                                                                                                                               departments                       departments
                                                                                                                                                          delegates

                                                                                                                                           key committee sessions
                                                                                                                             csr committee / investment committee / corporate
                                                                                                                                   organization & personnel committee


  <business execution structure>




                                                                                      036                                                               dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                        contents



                corporate governance




change of governance structure
dentsu inc. changed from being a company with an audit & supervisory board to being one with an
audit and supervisory committee at the end of the ordinary general meeting of shareholders in
march 2016.
    even though dentsu had been well organized under its previous configuration, with an audit
& supervisory board, the change in corporate governance structure was in response to the
implementation of the corporate governance code by the tokyo stock exchange on june 1, 2015.
it was also decided that we would voluntarily change the composition of the board of directors—
so that at least one-third of the members would be independent, outside directors to enhance our
auditing and monitoring functions—and set up an audit and supervisory committee.
    the main role of the board of directors from then on would be the supervision of business execution,
to enable expeditious decision-making and effective business execution by individuals in an executive
position. with this change, the dentsu group aims to improve the soundness and transparency of
management and the speed of decision-making in order to further increase corporate value.




                                       implementation of new corporate
                                       governance structure
                                       in 2016, the corporate community in japan has seen a continuation of the corporate governance
                                       reforms that started in the previous year. the degree to which the revised companies act and
                                       the corporate governance code—implemented in may and june of 2015, respectively—have
                                       had an effect on the conduct of business here is currently being put to the test.
                                            meanwhile, besides the governance reform, dentsu has implemented innovative changes.
    toshiaki hasegawa,                 it has changed its closing date for accounting from the end of march to the end of december,
    lawyer                             adopted international financial reporting standards, and changed its governance structure to
    dentsu inc.,                       reflect the amendment to the companies act. the changes have been made to strengthen the
    director                           internal controls and governance of the entire group.
    member of the audit and                 for my part, i resigned from the office of auditor and was appointed an outside director
    supervisory committee (outside)
                                       and a member of the audit and supervisory committee at the ordinary general meeting of
    representative of t.hasegawa &
    co., law offices                   shareholders on march 30, 2016. some people may view this merely as a change in job title,
                                       with the degree of responsibility remaining much the same. however, from the perspective of
                                       governance enhancement, significant progress has been made.
                                            since a member of the audit and supervisory committee is also a director, i will participate
                                       in, and exercise voting rights for, resolutions at board of directors’ meetings. while articulating
                                       my position on the pros and cons of management decisions, i am also responsible for the
                                       legality of board of directors’ activities. although establishing the auditing committee complies
                                       with global standards, the management and supervisory system of a company with an audit &
                                       supervisory board was so unusual in japan, that people outside the country found it confusing.
                                            i believe that, through the above drastic reforms, the dentsu group has created a
                                       governance structure suitable for a truly global company.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                          037

                                                                      contents



              corporate governance




response to implementation of the corporate governance code


policy formulation
in response to the implementation of the corporate governance code, the company formulated a
new corporate governance policy to put into practice effective corporate governance and fulfill its
responsibilities to its stakeholders (shareholders, clients, employees, and local communities), ensuring
sustainable growth and enhancing mid- to long-term corporate value.
                                         corporate governance policy ➡ http://www.dentsu.com/whoweare/cgp.html


appointment of senior management; nomination of director candidates
when nominating directors who are not already members of the audit and supervisory committee,
the representative director—the individual in a japanese company who has the company seal and
represents it in transactions—will submit the proposed names and, to ensure transparency, explain to
the independent outside director members of the audit and supervisory committee the reasons for,
and suitability of, nominees. directors shall be nominated by the board of directors, which will take
into consideration the opinions of outside directors.
    when nominating directors who are members of the audit and supervisory committee, the
representative director will submit a list of proposed names and, after they have been approved
by the audit and supervisory committee, the board of directors shall decide the new board
members.
    for the policies and procedures involved in nominating director candidates, please refer to
the corporate governance report.
                          corporate governance report ➡ http://www.dentsu.com/csr/pdf/governance_201603_en.pdf


formulation of the independence standards for outside directors
in order to ensure transparency of the group’s corporate governance structure, in november 2015,
the company formulated its standards for the independence of outside directors, as stated in part
below.
    the company deems that any directors who fall into any of the following categories do not meet
the standards required of independent outside directors.
    1. persons who have certain relationships with the company or its subsidiaries.
    2. persons who hold the position of director or other executive of a corporation and who also
       perform an executive role in the company.
    3. principal business partners.
    4. auditors of the company.
    5. outside experts of the company.
    6. persons who received donations from the company.
    7. major shareholders.
    8. persons who have fallen under items 2 through 6 in the past.
    9. close relatives.
           independence standards for outside directors at dentsu inc. ➡ http://www.dentsu.com/whoweare/isod.html


self-evaluation of board’s efficacy, summary of results
since becoming a company with an audit and supervisory committee in fy2016, each year directors
will be required to conduct self-evaluations regarding the effectiveness and aptness of the board of
directors’ monitoring of the company’s management, and of their performance of their own duties as
directors. based on the results of the self-evaluations, the board of directors will analyze and evaluate
the overall effectiveness of the board, before making public an overview.




                                                                     038                                            dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                          contents



                   corporate governance




training directors and executive officers
through ongoing training, opportunities will be made available for directors and executive officers to gain the knowledge
necessary to properly carry out their work and responsibilities.
    currently, when directors (excluding outside directors) and executive officers assume their roles, the company provides them
with lectures, given by in-house and outside experts, with respect to the company’s strategies in areas including management,
business, finance, laws, and regulations. this enables them to acquire and update the knowledge they require to fulfill their
responsibilities. they also have opportunities to find, through discussions, issues to be addressed by the company and their
solutions. moreover, after becoming directors or auditors, they have opportunities to hold monthly study seminars to obtain the
latest information regarding best practices for megatrend issues, with emphasis on the positioning of the environmental, social,
and governmental criteria in the corporate governance code.
    when new outside directors assume their offices, they are provided with an explanation of the business, organizational
structure, and other related company matters. then, periodically, they are updated regarding issues currently being addressed
by the company.

remuneration
policies, procedures for senior management; directors’ remuneration
directors who are not members of the audit and supervisory committee have a performance-linked framework for remuneration.
it is designed to ensure that the medium-term management plan goals are achieved, the focus is on the mid- to long-term profit
of shareholders, and the motivation to maximize the corporate value of the company remains high.
      the index used to evaluate business performance is the company’s consolidated operating profit, while the total amount of
bonuses varies according to the degree to which budgetary goals have been achieved. performance-linked bonuses, meanwhile,
account for 40% of the company’s total remuneration.
      the total amount of fixed monthly salaries and performance-linked bonuses is within the remuneration limit approved at the
ordinary general meeting of shareholders.
      the amount of remuneration of each director who is not a member of the audit and supervisory committee (as well as of
each executive officer) is determined by a resolution of the board of directors within the above limit of remuneration, and must
be approved at the same general meeting of shareholders. in order to ensure transparency, the suggested remuneration is
explained to committee members, and the final decision is made by shareholders after they have taken into consideration the
opinions of the audit and supervisory committee members.
      remuneration for directors who are members of the audit and supervisory committee consists solely of a fixed monthly
salary. the gross amount is within the remuneration limit approved at the ordinary general meeting of shareholders.
      the amount of remuneration for each director who is a member of the audit and supervisory committee is determined
through consultations conducted by the committee directors. the amount is within the above remuneration limit, as approved
at the same ordinary general meeting of shareholders.

total amount of remuneration for directors and audit & supervisory board members
                                                                                      audit & supervisory board
                                directors                                                                                                  all officers
                                                                                      members (of which are outside audit &
                                (of which are outside directors)                                                                           (of which are outside officers)
                                                                                      supervisory board members)
monthly                         274 million yen: 12 persons                           75 million yen: 5 persons                            349 million yen: 17 persons
remuneration                    (10 million yen) (2 persons)                          (21 million yen) (3 persons)                         (31 million yen) (5 persons)
                                195 million yen: 9 persons                            - yen: - persons                                     195 million yen: 9 persons
bonuses
                                ( - yen) ( - persons)                                 ( - yen) ( - persons)                                ( - yen) ( - persons)
                                469 million yen: 12 persons                           75 million yen: 5 persons                            544 million yen: 17 persons
total
                                (10 million yen) (2 persons)                          (21 million yen) (3 persons)                         (31 million yen) (5 persons)

1. the annual remuneration for directors was approved by shareholders at the ordinary general meeting of shareholders held on june 27, 2013. the resolution limits the amount to
   ¥1,200 million per year (of which up to ¥18 million per year is earmarked for outside directors).
2. the annual remuneration for audit & supervisory board members was approved by shareholders at the ordinary general meeting of shareholders held on june 27, 2013. the
   resolution limits the amount to ¥132 million per year.
3. the totals for fixed monthly remuneration include amounts for one director who resigned at the conclusion of the ordinary general meeting of shareholders held on june 26, 2015.
4. bonuses in the table above show the amount approved at the meeting of the ordinary board of directors held in february 2016. it is within the limit of remuneration for directors
   stated in note 1. above. the company does not pay bonuses to outside directors and audit & supervisory board members.
5. with the approval by the 167th ordinary general meeting of shareholders, held on march 30, 2016, the company now has an audit and supervisory committee. at the same meeting,
   shareholders approved a maximum annual remuneration for those directors who are not members of the audit and supervisory committee of ¥1.2 billion, and a maximum annual
   remuneration for those directors who are members of the audit and supervisory committee of ¥150 million. shareholders also agreed that no bonus is to be paid to outside directors.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                            039

                                                                        contents



              corporate governance




communication with shareholders and investors


the company is working to enhance its mid- to long-term                                                                            the general meeting of
                                                                                                                                   shareholders
corporate value by disclosing to shareholders and investors such
information as management strategies, financial figures, and non-
financial particulars. disclosures are timely, and the company
engages in an ongoing, constructive dialogue with shareholders
and investors through its ir activities.
    in addition to holding earnings-related presentations twice a
year, we aim to achieve wide-ranging, two-way communication
with shareholders and investors through individual briefings
for institutional investors and analysts held in japan and other
countries.
                      policy on constructive dialogue with shareholders ➡
        http://www.dentsu.com/ir/stockandratings/constructivedialogue.html
                                                                                   exhibition panel for the reception at the general meeting of
                                                                                   shareholders



capital policy and shareholder return
the company employs a capital policy aimed at improving its intrinsic corporate value. as a top
priority for capital allocation, it pursues sustainable profit growth with aggressive m&as in growth
areas across all markets. further, through a combination of continued dividend stability and agile
treasury stock acquisition, the company aims to consistently improve shareholder returns, raise capital
efficiency, and improve return on equity over the medium term.

ordinary general meeting of shareholders
at the company’s ordinary general meeting of shareholders, we make every effort to ensure the
smooth exercise of shareholders’ voting rights. this is done by such measures as the prompt delivery
of notices of the meetings and the introduction of internet voting. the 166th meeting, held on june
26, 2015, was attended by 307 shareholders.

earnings presentations
the company places importance on its relationships with analysts and investors. we hold
earnings presentations twice a year to explain our financial situation, provide a general overview,
and explain management policies. the documents used at earnings presentations are posted
on the company’s website and made available to general investors.
                              earnings presentation materials ➡ http://www.dentsu.com/ir/library/conferencematerials/


shareholder composition
as of the end of december                  ownership and distribution of shares
2015, there were 31,928 dentsu
shareholders.
                                           japanese individuals                                        japanese financial
                                           and others                                                        institutions
                                           (incl. treasury stock)                                                 28.07%
                                           14.32%



                                                                                                     financial instruments
                                           foreign institutional                                                       firm
                                           investors                                                                 2.25%
                                           28.45%
                                                                                                          other japanese
                                                                                                             corporations
                                                                                                                  26.90%




                                                                       040                                                    dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                       contents



                   corporate governance




dentsu group internal controls


we believe that the dentsu group internal control system encourages compliance among directors,
executive officers, and employees, while at the same time supporting continuous corporate
development as dentsu meets its social responsibilities. the company has established the dentsu
group code of conduct to ensure that the execution of duties by directors, executive officers, and
employees of the company and its subsidiaries conform to laws and regulations, and that business is
conducted appropriately. the code is the foundation on which the internal control system rests.
    based on the code, the company familiarizes all employees with the relevant business
procedures through regulations, manuals and training. check items relating to risk management
and compliance have been created, and inspections are carried out from various perspectives,
allowing problems to be discovered and improvements to be developed.
    a similar internal control structure is being applied in group companies, to maintain and
improve the corporate value of the entire group.
                                      dentsu group code of conduct ➡ http://www.dentsu.com/csr/overview/codeofconduct.html


risk management
to ensure the comprehensive management of the entire group’s risks, the members of the csr
committee (chaired by the director and an executive officer) are drawn from the group. the csr
committee monitors the group’s risk management efforts and manages the plan-do-check-act (pdca)
cycle. this ensures that policies and the risk management process are developed, implemented,
monitored, and improved in the interests of enabling enhancement to be continuous.
    dentsu sets up rules for the management of risk, in order to maintain and improve a structure that
prevents the occurrence of risks and precludes the spread of damage or loss, while minimizing the
impact of risk progression should risks materialize.
    the company prioritizes key risks and formulates concrete measures that can be employed
should a response be required.
    a department is assigned to be responsible for each key risk. these departments develop and
implement the requisite measures to reduce risks; compile mid-term progress reports, year-end self-
assessments, and guidelines for the succeeding year; and report to the csr committee.
    key risks and potential risks, thought likely to eventuate over the medium to long term, are
reported by the csr committee to the executive management committee. after confirming the
status of any risk—whether it can be avoided, reduced, transferred, or retained—the csr committee
develops and reviews response measures.
    to prioritize key risks, the dentsu group conducts quantitative and qualitative analyses using a risk
map. this data visualization tool takes into consideration the frequency and impact of each risk, and
uses correlation analysis to identify key risks.

potential risk that may occur from a medium and long-term perspective and the response status of the dentsu group

potential risk                      outline                                                            mitigation plan and implementation status

                                    in case of crisis—such as disaster, accident, large-scale system   •developing the initial response manual
                                    failure, and health hazard—there is a risk that the business       •developing the management plans for the taskforce
response to large-scale disasters
                                    continuity plan (bcp) and contingency plan do not function         •streamlining the safety confirmation operation by centralization
                                    properly and that time is required to resume the business.          of the safety information system

                                    the global strategy may be delayed due to flaw in the
                                                                                                       •building an effective governance structure
insufficient coping with            international business management systems and inadequate
                                                                                                       •fostering global human resources
globalization                       dealing with the measures and local legal system, etc., in the
                                                                                                       •strengthening the compliance system
                                    countries and regions where the company engages in business.


                                                                                                       •setting the no-overtime days policy
reduction of the workload           health hazards or a decline in productivity of the employees
                                                                                                       •promoting the planning and taking of annual paid leave
of employees                        may occur due to long working hours.
                                                                                                       •implementing the “work style innovation.”




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                         041

                                                                      contents



               corporate governance




information security


development of a management system
the company set up the dentsu group basic policy for information security and a very strict
information security management system to protect the group’s important data, as well as personal
and other information received from clients.
    the company has compiled information management and other rules. company officers and
employees are made aware of these and are expected to comply with them. the company also
provides training for new graduate employees and briefings for employees, distributing videos and
pamphlets to raise awareness. given the importance of managers in information management, the
company has also started a new manager training course to educate managers about their roles and
responsibilities.
    for information management security, in march 2003 the dentsu head office in tokyo was awarded
bs 7799-part 2:2002 certification, the predecessor of iso/iec 27001:2005. this was extended to the
entire company in april 2005, when the kansai and chubu offices received the same certification.
    in 2015, dentsu went on to implement iso/iec27001:2013 and jis q 27001:2014, international
standards for information security management systems (isms). as of march 31, 2015, dentsu inc. and
50 dentsu group companies in japan have this certification.
    dentsu strives to implement stringent information security management for the entire dentsu
group, to flexibly respond to the ever-changing and increasingly sophisticated environment of
information and communication technology.

information security management system

  dentsu group basic policy
  group member companies address information security in all business areas, by putting in place policies
  and procedures to systematically manage sensitive data. they recognize the role of information security
  management in protecting important information.

  1. compliance with laws
     based on requests from our stakeholders, including clients and business partners, we properly address
     information security management to ensure compliance with relevant laws and regulations. in particular,
     personal information is strictly managed.

  2. strict information management
     we will strictly manage information to prevent any leakage, loss, damage or misuse of information, such
     as confidential client information and personal information. we share such business information only
     among employees and group companies with appropriate clearances. in selecting our subcontractors,
     we take into consideration how they are addressing information security.

  3. maintaining and improving achievement levels
     we intend to maintain our current security level and improve it through our pdca cycle activities. we
     educate all of our employees, from executives down, regarding information security, so that they can
     acquire the appropriate knowledge and develop the necessary judgment.

  4. adaptation to environmental change
     we will continue to update our information security management system and concomitant rules even as
     we take a flexible approach to environmental changes in our group’s business areas, the information assets
     handled by our group, and developments in the area of information and communication technology (ict).




                                                                     042                                          dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                            contents



               corporate governance




compliance promotion


system management
to ensure that internationally accepted standards are adopted in their global business, the company
formulated the dentsu group code of conduct, based on the oecd guidelines for multinational
enterprises, published by the organization for economic cooperation and development.
    according to dentsu’s compliance system, directors and executive officers who discover violations
of prevailing laws or who encounter other serious compliance-related issues are required immediately
to report their findings to the board of directors or the executive management committee. the audit
and supervisory committee also must be advised of the circumstances without delay.
    if the audit and supervisory committee gives an opinion on the company’s compliance system,
or requires that steps be taken to improve the system, directors and executive officers must respond
at once and make the recommended changes.
    the compliance department develops rules and manuals to maintain and improve the compliance                                compliance digest booklet

system as it applies to employees. it conducts training programs, led by the csr committee, designed
to ensure compliance awareness among employees.
    a compliance line was set up as the designated contact point for the receipt of reports on in-
house legal violations. the line has an in-house and an external contact point, calls to the latter being
handled by a law office. operational and information management structures are in place to ensure
that those seeking consultation or reporting violations are not penalized in any way. in fy2015, dentsu
inc. and dentsu group employees submitted 15 reports and proposals (fy2014: 10; fy2013: 13;
fy2012: 21). all were dealt with by the company.
    among the activities held by the dentsu head office in its attempt to prevent illicit behavior
and raise the level of employee awareness was the showing of an educational video. in addition, to
promote understanding of the importance of compliance issues, a compliance website was set up on
the company intranet, and the compliance digest booklet was distributed to all group companies.
each year, compliance training sessions for new and mid-career hires are held at the company and
group companies.

rejection of antisocial forces
the company and all group enterprises set up a basic policy on the rejection of organized crime
groups and other antisocial forces, thereby articulating their determination to take a firm stand
against antisocial forces, as groups and individuals seeking economic profit through violence are
known in japan. business partners have been asked to take the same action.
                          basic policy on the rejection of boryokudan (organized crime groups) and other antisocial forces ➡
                                                                  http://www.dentsu.co.jp/csr/compliance/compliance.html



bid to end bribery by group companies abroad
dan provides compliance training on the intranet for group companies outside of japan, the
participation rate of which is up to 90%. as a follow-up, each company also holds its own training
sessions and strives to raise employee awareness regarding bribery.
                                                                                                                               incident of concern or
                                                                                                                               suspicion of wrongdoing
speak up! policy                                                                                                               within the workplace
the risk of fraud and other wrongdoing is a threat to the group’s profitability and reputation. dan thus
                                                                                                                               • bullying or harassment
established an internal reporting program, called speak up!, for reporting any incident of concern or                          • theft or fraud
that raises suspicions of wrongdoing in the workplace. employees can make a report to line managers,                           • bribery and corruption
                                                                                                                               • information security breaches
hr staff or senior managers, or they can follow internal grievance procedures. appropriate legal and/                            (e.g. loss or theft of
or disciplinary action will be taken against perpetrators of fraud and other wrongdoing.                                         personal/ sensitive data)
                                                                                                                               • abuse or inflation of
    dan also employs safecall limited, an independent specialist that employees can contact                                      expenses
anonymously on the phone, by email and through a website, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, and in a                            • non-compliance with
                                                                                                                                 contractual obligations
number of languages.
                                                                                                                               • accounting and tax
                                                                                                                                 malpractice




dentsu integrated report 2016                                              043

                                     contents



sustainability




   s
           u
                 s
                     t
                         a
                             i
                                 n
                                     a
                                           b
                                                i
                                                    l
                                                        i
                                                            t
                                                                y




                                     044                            dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                      contents



                                  sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr    ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report   ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities   ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




message of the chairperson of csr committee


                                          improving all esg values and pursuing the
                                          realization of a better society



                                          kunihiro matsushima
                                          chair of the csr committee,
                                          director




dentsu group’s consolidated performance for 2015 (calendar-year basis) showed significantly robust
growth with revenue increasing 12.8% year-on-year and underlying operating profit increasing 20.3%.
however, in terms of future forecast, a variety of risks exist, including geopolitical issues and business
model innovations.
    under such circumstances, it is difficult for many companies to grow and continuously increase
corporate value solely by pursuing financial performance. the corporate governance code, for
which implementation began in june 2015 in japan, promotes innovation aiming at medium- to
long-term growth of the company through a constructive dialogue with stakeholders. the code
places importance on the esg (environmental, social, governance) perspective above all and seeks
corporate value creation in the non-financial area. in addition, the institutional investors, both within
and outside of japan, also place importance on the principles for responsible investment (pri), and
over 1,500 investors have already signed on to the pri globally.
    in order to properly respond to such momentum, in december 2015, the group formulated the
dentsu group medium-term csr strategy 2020, setting targets to be achieved by 2020. the plan
aims to increase the corporate value from the esg perspective and highlights the four key domains:
environmental conservation, community, supply chain, and responsible marketing and sustainable
consumption.
    the company is a “public institution” of society, and it cannot achieve sustainable growth without
substantive collaboration with various stakeholders. to that end, the company will continuously strive
to achieve the following initiatives:
    • provide responsible marketing communication services to enable our clients to build better
      relationships with stakeholders through business activities
    • engage in a wide range of csr activities in collaboration with our business partners within the
      supply chain
    • support all employees of the dentsu group to act as professionals with high aspirations and
      energy by further promoting a work-life balance.

we believe these initiatives, among others, help ensure our sustainability as a member of society,
separate and aside from the pursuit of financial sustainability. we will improve all esg values in
conjunction with our business activities to further enhance the corporate value of the dentsu group
and pursue the realization of a better society.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                     045

                                                                                     contents



                                  sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr   ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report   ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities   ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




dentsu group csr


code of conduct philosophy
the dentsu group code of conduct, the group’s csr philosophy, is based on dentsu’s seven key
areas of csr activity: corporate governance, respect for human rights, ensuring a safe and civilized
working environment, environmental protection, fair business practices, addressing consumer issues,
and contributing to the community. the code states what all group managers and employees must
do to fulfill their respective responsibilities to society.
    the short publication, “guidance on the dentsu group code of conduct,” provides specific and
detailed actions that management and employees can take to gain a deeper understanding of the
seven key areas and voluntarily abide by the requirements.
    the group has stated that it shall comply with the laws and regulations of each market in which it
does business, while respecting social norms that reflect a region’s diversity. the publication serves as
the group-wide code of conduct.


  dentsu group code of conduct

  all the following points regarding the code and governance may be found at http://www.dentsu.com/csr/
  overview/codeofconduct.html.

  • the dentsu group of companies, its officers, and employees (‘we’ or ‘us’) are committed to protecting
    the interests of our stakeholders by conducting business to the highest ethical standards. to achieve this
    commitment, we have established the “dentsu group code of conduct” (‘code of conduct’) to serve as our
    basic principles for conducting business in a socially responsible manner.
  • we will comply with the code of conduct in all respects. outside of the dentsu group, we will encourage
    compliance with the code of conduct by our business partners.
  • we will comply with all national, local, and international laws and regulations in all markets in which we conduct
    business.
  • we will respect diversity and will not discriminate on any basis. we will also respect the diverse social and
    cultural standards of each region in which we conduct business.

  1. corporate governance
     we respect the interests of our stakeholders and will refrain from engaging in inappropriate activities
     or taking inappropriate risks that might harm these interests. our officers will take responsibility for
     developing and maintaining appropriate corporate governance systems.
  2. respect for human rights
     we comply with internationally-recognized principles of human rights. we respect the human rights of all
     people connected with our business activities and will not discriminate on any basis.
  3. ensuring a safe and civilized working environment
     we will ensure that our workplaces are safe and create a civilized working environment.
  4. environmental protection
     we aim to minimize the impact of our business on the environment and contribute to making society
     sustainable.
  5. fair business practices
     in carrying out our business, we will compete fairly in all markets in which we operate. we will avoid or
     appropriately manage any conflicting interests. we will not knowingly take part in any form of corrupt
     business practice, including bribery and money laundering.
  6. addressing consumer issues
     we will strive to address consumer issues in all markets in which we operate, including by providing
     appropriate information to consumers and giving due attention to safety and security in all of our
     activities.
  7. contributing to the community
     we are committed to contributing to the development of all local and global communities in which we
     operate and to the resolution of social issues in each community.




                                                                                 046                                                 dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                        contents



                                  sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr      ◆ social responsibility report        ◆ environmental report     ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities                 ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




promotion of csr
dentsu has established three principal committees under its executive management committee and business supervision
committee, which are responsible for all major management decisions. one of the committees established under the executive
management committee is the csr committee, comprising five board members and chaired by an executive officer. the
committee, which met eight times (april to december) in fiscal 2015, makes decisions on all major csr-related measures in
accordance with the dentsu group code of conduct, which also serves as the group’s csr philosophy.
    under the csr committee, dentsu has established subcommittees for human rights education and charitable donations,
as well as specialist working groups to deliberate on issues in various fields. on the key theme of the environment, the csr
committee works closely with the environmental strategy council, dentsu’s in-house body tasked with promoting environment-
related programs to ensure greater company-wide awareness concerning the environment.
    for group companies outside of japan, a csr action plan was developed at the dan board of directors meeting. the
progress of the plan is reported to and shared with the executive management and the csr committees.
    we have also designated csr promotion committee members in all company departments to promote awareness,
disseminate information on specific csr measures, and ensure company-wide efforts. at group companies outside of japan, we
have appointed csr champions, who promote csr activities. through such efforts, we are advancing csr activities on a group-
wide level. dentsu aims to ensure that its csr measures are consistent across the group, ensuring that member companies are
able to express its characteristics.


dentsu group csr promotion system

                                                          board of directors

                                                   executive management committee



                                                           csr committee

                                    ▪evaluates and determines csr policies and measures
                                    ▪receive and confirms activity reports on each measure
   environmental strategy                                                                                         dan board of directors
          council
                                          subcommittees                specialist working groups                      csr steering group
                                      • human rights education              • internal control
                                      • charitable donations                • various task forces
                                                                                                                          csr team




                                       group companies                              dentsu                            group companies
                                           in japan                     employees assigned to promote                   outside japan
                                    directors in charge of csr            csr promote awareness and             csr champions are assigned
                                  implement csr measures at the        disseminate information on speci­fic    in each group base to develop
                                       group company level                csr measures to employees             csr measures in each country




                                                                                                                                                     the environment

                                                                                                                                                         society


major stakeholders                                                                                                                                       clients

the company pursues csr activities and addresses social issues, while                                                                    media                         employees
maintaining interactive communication with its stakeholders. the group
stresses day-to-day dialogues with stakeholders, strives to ensure the proper
                                                                                                                                  business
disclosure of information, and integrates into its activities the expectations                                                    partners
                                                                                                                                                                             consumers


and demands of stakeholders.
                                                                                                                                      shareholders                      regional
                                                                                                                                       / investors                     communities
                                                                        note: in addition to the above, dentsu has
                                                                                                                                                      npo / ngo
                                                                              many other stakeholders, such as the
                                                                              government, administrative agencies,
                                                                              and various organizations.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                          047

                                                                                     contents



                                  sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr   ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report   ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities   ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




participation in international initiatives
dentsu participates in international initiatives in order to contribute to global social development, and
strives to address activities with a focus on environmental, social and governance (esg) issues and to
promote information sharing.
     the company joined the united nations global compact in december 2009 and upholds
its 10 principles on human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. it submits a csr
report every year to the un global compact, and compiles an annual stand-alone activities report
(“communication on progress: cop”) aimed at the realization of the 10 principles.
     dentsu also has become a member of csr asia, the largest csr-related think tank in the asia–
pacific region, which focuses on deliberation of esg issues in asia and the strengthening of alliances
with companies in asia.




common ground initiative
the dentsu group has agreed to participate in a major global initiative with the world’s other five
major advertising and marketing services groups: havas, ipg, omnicom, publicis, and wpp. at the
suggestion of un secretary-general ban ki-moon, the common ground initiative focuses on specific
areas of the sustainable development goals (sdgs) that were adopted in september 2015 as an
integral part of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development at the united nations.
    this is an innovative initiative to act globally and beyond business competition. as a first
step, the top management teams of each group gathered at a session of the 63rd cannes lions
international festival of creativity. there, we shared awareness of the issues and agreed to
work to address the most imminent global issue by fully utilizing creativity as the strength of
advertising companies. we plan to jointly run the common ground advertising campaign to
support the sdgs.
    organizing the subcommittee of the united nations global compact network japan,
dentsu takes the initiative in japan to achieve the sdgs and to resolve global issues.
                                                          common ground ➡ http://www.dentsu.com/csr/commonground.html




                                                                                 048                                                 dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                        contents



                                   sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr      ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report    ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities      ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




dentsu group medium-term csr strategy 2020
dentsu has formulated a five-year dentsu group medium-term csr strategy 2020, setting targets to
be achieved by 2020. according to the dentsu group code of conduct, based on the medium-term
csr strategy—stipulating the four key areas and common goal—the group will continue contributing
to the realization of a sustainable society by steadily promoting csr activities worldwide.

csr planning: realizing a sustainable society
nations around the world face a number of social issues, including those that are environment-related,
such as global warming, as well as human rights violations that are found in some countries and regions.
many of the issues are the result of corporate activities, since the increased social expectations and
demands are causing companies to focus on a variety of activities to fulfill their responsibilities. the
advertising industry being no exception, we have persevered in our effort to manage the impact on
the environment and society.
    however, the role that should be played by the advertising industry is far greater than we had
anticipated. that said, we have a significant impact on consumer behavior as it relates to the buying
of such goods as daily consumer items, and extends to once-in-a-lifetime major purchases. while
being aware of the magnitude of the impact that advertising has on consumption, we also should
remain aware of our responsibilities in terms of the fairness of the content and of goods and services
that consumers purchase. when it comes to environmental and social impact, we believe advertising
companies should bear in mind both direct and indirect impact.
    based on the above considerations, we developed a plan that defines the common goal of
the dentsu group. the plan—involving the collection of data regarding the group’s resources and
knowledge in japan and overseas— will be steadily executed with a view to realizing a sustainable
society, and promoting the integration of business activities and sustainability approaches.


four key areas

               environment                                                                              community
               to tackle climate change through reducing our environmental                              to build a more effective civil society through a wide variety of
               impacts across our operations                                                            community activities


               supply chain                                                                             responsible marketing and sustainable consumption
               to develop a more resilient supply chain through developing                              to promote a sustainable society through implementing responsible
               sustainable procurement practices                                                        marketing practices as well as encouraging sustainable behavior




quantitative targets in japan and
overseas offices of the group
                                                          dentsu group companies in japan



        environment                     reduce our carbon footprint per person by 30%                               reduce our carbon footprint per person by 40%



                                        have 90% of the employees participate in dentsu’s csr program and
        community                                                                                                   enable 500 charities to build communications capabilities
                                        contribute to community development


                                        cooperate with 90% of our main suppliers to promote sustainable             achieve 100% compliance with our supply chain charter
        supply chain
                                        business activities                                                         principles

                                        provide 90% of our employees with training in the responsible
        responsible marketing and                                                                                   engage 1,000,000 people with sustainable consumption
                                        execution of their duties and use their skills and expertise to give
        sustainable consumption                                                                                     campaigns
                                        something back to society




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                       049

                                                                                     contents



                                  sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr   ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report   ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities   ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




  social responsibility report

      respect for human rights
      ensuring a safe and civilized working environment
      contributing to the community
      fair business practices (disclosed exclusively on the website)
      addressing consumer issues (disclosed exclusively on the website)




respect for human rights


<social issues>
• human rights violations in communication activities

<the dentsu group’s approach>
the group aspires to enrich the human rights-related aspects of its advertising and business
communication activities. to this end, it regularly conducts group-wide employee training programs
designed to provide employees with a sound understanding of human rights, which they can then
apply to their work.
    we at dentsu also consider the prevention of harassment and protection of employees’ human rights
to be important themes in ensuring that employees are able to showcase their individual capabilities.

human rights policy and systems
the group is well aware of the impact that communication activities have on society, and carries
out human rights awareness promotion activities as part of its group’s basic policy on human rights
awareness program. as a global company, dentsu supports the international norms on human
rights, including the universal declaration of human rights and international labour organization’s
declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work.
    we also develop due diligence processes to identify, prevent, mitigate, and address any negative
impact our corporate activities may have on human rights, in accordance with the united nations’
guiding principles on business and human rights.


                                                                                 050                                                 dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                     contents



                                  sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr   ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report    ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities    ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




  basic policy on human rights awareness
  1. in advertising communication activities, there shall be no discriminatory expression.
  2. respect for fundamental human rights is the foundation of our existence and the starting point of
     communication.



human rights promotion system
a dentsu group human rights education conference is held twice a year for those in charge of human
rights education at the company, and for human rights education managers at group companies. in
addition to fundamental human rights issues, other topical themes are also covered.

human rights awareness
to increase human rights awareness, the group runs human rights awareness training programs
based on both employee hierarchy and occupational field.
    there are also various opportunities to raise awareness of human rights. textbooks with
information on human rights and explanations of their connection to advertising are distributed
to employees when they join the company. the human rights college, a site that collects past
examples of advertising expressions related to human rights, is posted on the company’s intranet.
further, a newsletter dealing with timely human rights-related topics is distributed within the group
twice a month.
    in the area of advertising and human rights, the group has a permanent consulting contact, to
ensure that expressions communicated to the world are appropriate, and to respond to group-wide
inquiries.

internal reporting to protect human rights
we established a contact desk that responds to inquiries from group
employees and allows the identification of possible human rights-related risks
associated with the right of expression in advertising. during fiscal 2015, the
desk received 63 inquiries. these were handled individually, in a bid both to
prevent any recurrence of the issues and to increase human rights awareness.
    all harassment-related issues are centralized at the harassment
counseling section, which has contact points at dentsu branches, as well
as outside the company, and provides consultation services. the section
coordinates with harassment contacts at each group company, in a bid to
prevent harassment across the group.
    to ensure that employee education prevents both power and sexual
harassment at dentsu offices, we have issued an educational book entitled
stop! harassment. we also hold training sessions tailored to target
audiences, including new employees and new managers, and post messages
on bulletin boards calling attention to the company’s anti-harassment policy.                                   site screen of the human rights college
    in fiscal 2015, there were 49 consultations at the harassment counseling
section (fy2014: 53 consultations, fy2013: 50 consultations, fy2012: 47
consultations). these were individually handled so that improvements might
be made to the working environment.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                    051

                                                                                     contents



                                  sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr   ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report   ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities   ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




ensuring a safe, civilized work environment


<social issues>
• human resources development
• diversity promotion
• promotion of work-life balance

<the dentsu group’s approach>
it is essential that we maximize and harness all our employees’ capabilities if we are to realize a
sustainable society. since we consider people to be our greatest asset, we believe it to be vital that
there be an environment in which employees can maintain high morale and motivation, while doing
their work enthusiastically. to this end, dentsu implements measures guaranteeing that capabilities
are developed, a work–life balance is achieved, and health- and safety-related structures are in place.

development of human resources
recognizing that human resources are its greatest asset, the group provides employees with
appropriate capability-developing opportunities and supports employee self-development, in line
with each individual’s career and the organization’s goals.


  human resources development policy
  1. new employees undergo training to acquire “mind/action” and “knowledge/skills” capabilities.
  2. staff members are encouraged to develop solution-related expertise, so that they become able to play a
     central role in their work sections.
  3. leadership and managerial skills training is geared to more senior employees.



besides training programs and in response to changes in the area of advertising and communications,
the group conducts human resource development programs, including those to develop digital,
foreign-language, and cross-cultural communication ability. thus, for instance, we have the new
school personnel development program for high-level directors, which was launched in 2011. through
a repeated cycle of assignments and feedback, the program, taught by top-level in-house lecturers,
ensures that a leadership model is passed down.
    moreover, because accurate and sophisticated leadership is required in new areas other than
advertising, some sessions are taught by non-company people who are active in fields such as art,
technology, and digital curation.
    we also have the dentsu management institute (dmi), geared to strengthening the group’s
management capabilities and developing human resources that can provide advanced solutions for
management issues and the business challenges of various stakeholders, including clients and media.




                                                                                 052                                                 dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                      contents



                                  sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr    ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report   ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities   ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




diversity promotion
promoting female participation
dentsu helps develop and support the careers of female employees. to maximize the company’s
strength, we formulated an action plan to run from january 1, 2015 until december 31, 2019. through
the plan, dentsu is striving to expand its existing female-friendly work environments so that female
participation in the workplace might increase.


  summary of the action plan
  goals
  1. increase the ratio of women among new graduate recruits (permanent employees) to at least 35%.
  2. increase the ratio of women among managers to at least 10% by 2020.

  specific efforts
  1. adopt measures to recruit and select female employees.
  2. enhance management skills of managers.
  3. foster career awareness among female employees.
  4. dispel uncertainty over work–family balance (raising children, providing care) by revising current systems and
     support measures.
  5. redesign work style to encourage greater output, reduce long working hours.

                 summary of the action plan ➡ http://www.dentsu.com/csr/workingenvironment/workplaceenvironment.html


    in fiscal 2013, we launched the female employees promotion project to create a working
environment in which temporary leaves of absence will not jeopardize employees’ careers. in
addition, at an early stage of their careers, women are given ample opportunities to think about
their careers at, for example, lunch meetings with senior female employees. this gives them the
chance to hear about the experiences of others, and to attend career seminars held by lecturers
invited from outside the company.
    in march 2016, dentsu approved a declaration on action put forward by a group of male leaders,
who will be instrumental in creating “a society in which women shine.”* this is to be supported by
the gender equality bureau of the cabinet office. we will promote cross-industry efforts to enable
women to shine.
                                                    *the declaration was approved by a group of the company’s male leaders,
                                                      and is supported by the gender equality bureau of the cabinet office ➡
                                                                   http://www.dentsu.co.jp/news/release/2016/0302-008688.html




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                     053

                                                                                     contents



                                  sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr   ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report   ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities   ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




employing people with disabilities
as part of its efforts to promote the employment of people with disabilities, in april 2013 the company
established dentsu solari, a wholly owned group company that was designated as a special-purpose
subsidiary in november of that year. the employment rate of people with disabilities at three group
companies (dentsu, dentsu works, and dentsu solari) is 2.04% (as of june 2016). the company also
employs people with disabilities in account management, as well as in creative and other areas. along
with dentsu solari, we are trying to expand their employment opportunities.

work-friendly environment
promoting work–life balance
the company believes that a fulfilling personal life improves the quality of one’s working life, and that
satisfying work increases one’s level of self-fulfillment in life. the object of dentsu’s work–life balance
program, therefore, is to generate synergy between the two.
    the most important factor in creating a work-friendly environment is health management. the
starting point is the implementation of work-style reform, to increase productivity and efficiency in
achieving results. dentsu has established a special in-house labor administration committee that
is developing and implementing programs to reduce overtime and make it easier for employees to
take holidays.
    a human relations management department was set up to respond to employee concerns and
build employee opinions into the system.

labor management
the group emphasizes the development of good labor–management relations, while striving to
maintain and improve a relationship of trust between employees and management by creating
regular opportunities for conversations between management and the union. as of january 1, 2016,
the number of labor union members was 3,435.




                                                                                 054                                                 dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                     contents



                                  sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr   ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report   ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities   ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




contributing to the community


<social issues>
• solving the problems of the local communities through business activities
• human resources development through improved power of communication
• activities to tackle global social issues

<the dentsu group’s approach>
the company considers regional communities to be important stakeholders. it contributes
to resolving issues and promoting development of regional communities through its business
operations, and conducts numerous activities designed to contribute to society. we believe
that, as a leader in the sphere of communications, it is our role to build relationships of trust with
regional communities.

group community activities
    as part of its basic policy of “using the power of communication to benefit society,” dentsu’s social
contribution activities enable people and activities to tackle social issues, leveraging the experience
and professional skills that employees have acquired at the company.
    the company’s social contribution activities focus on two themes: “supporting human resources
development through improved communication skills” and “supporting activities to tackle
international social issues.”
    dentsu collaborates with npos and other partner organizations to engage in activities to resolve
social issues and to contribute to the development of communities both local and global.

supporting human resources development through improved communication skills




                                                                                                             support for
 fostering the next                improving citizens’                   international
                                                                                                          disaster-affected
    generation                        capabilities                         exchange
                                                                                                                areas



    • advertising elementary school
    • npo organizations: keys to communicating
    • dentsu chinese advertising human resources development project
    • participation in ‘michinoku fukkou jigyou partners


supporting activities to tackle international social issues




  global education                      world food
       issues                            problem




    • support to unesco’s world terakoya movement
    • support to numerous ngos in connection with the world food day




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                    055

                                                                                     contents



                                  sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr   ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report    ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities       ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




advertising elementary school
the advertising elementary school was started in 2006 as a project to foster
children’s communication skills. over three years, dentsu developed program
materials together with tokyo gakugei university. in the classes, children
express a theme in 15-second commercial skits. through this process, the
children learn skills such as creative thinking, decision-making, how to express
ideas and group problem-solving techniques while having fun.
     with the recognition of the importance of developing communication
skills becoming widespread in the field of education, use of the program in
classes taught by school teachers is increasing, and over 30,000 students at
243 schools across japan have taken part in this activity as of march 31, 2016.
                                                                                                                the special class for junior high school students in iwaki city
     we are also conducting activities to contribute to the revitalization of
regional communities. thus, in september 2015, at the request of the iwaki
city board of education, we provided support to a special class that creates
commercial message drama on the subject of “the beauty of iwaki that we
want to save for the future.”
                 advertising elementary school website ➡ http://www.dentsu.co.jp/komainu/


npo support program: keys to communicating
communications skills are fundamental and essential in order to lead npos,
increase the number of supporters and collaborators, and engage members
in activities. since 2004 and in cooperation with the japan npo center, the
company has been advancing its keys to communicating program in such a
way as best utilizes each organization’s respective specialties. this is helping
to improve the communications skills of npo staff, while dentsu employees
and npo members serve as presenters at seminars held throughout japan.
as of december 31, 2015, the number of seminars has exceeded 118, with
a cumulative total of around 4,700 participants. the program textbook was
redesigned in november 2015, and the new publication contains additional
                                                                                                                redesigned textbook
materials, including practical tips.

support for chinese advertising human resources development and
contribution to japan-china private sector exchanges
since 1996, dentsu has continuously undertaken activities to support
advertising education and human resources development in china. dentsu
holds various programs to respond to needs in the chinese advertising
education field, such as selecting young educators from chinese universities
to train at the dentsu head office, dentsu student advertising seminars for
students studying advertising, the establishment of the dentsu innovation
lab, and publications activities.
    in january 2015, dentsu was presented with the most valuable partner
award from the chinese ministry of education for recognition as a global
company that has made a particular contribution to chinese advertising                                          chinese educators and a lecturer at dentsu
human resources education and japan-china private sector exchanges.
dentsu received the award for the second consecutive year.




                                                                                 056                                                     dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                        contents



                                    sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson    ◆ dentsu group csr     ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report    ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities   ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




michinoku fukkou jigyou partners
since june 2012, dentsu has been taking part in the michinoku fukkou
jigyou partners platform, designed to support next-generation leaders
engaged in the reconstruction of disaster-affected areas. we work jointly
with the etic.*, an npo, and six companies (isuzu motors, kao, jcb, sompo
japan nipponkoa insurance, toshiba, and benesse holdings). dentsu is
engaged in reconstruction of disaster-affected areas in the tohoku region.
the company, for example, conducted a business brush-up program, to
enable organizations in the region to contribute to regional revitalization for
six consecutive months.
                             michinoku fukkou jigyou partners ➡ http://www.michinokupartners.jp/
                                                                                                                   meeting of the business brush-up program
* etic. is an npo that trains young people to become next-generation, entrepreneurial leaders. it has
  produced many operational npos that will lead future generations. www.etic.or.jp



tackling international educational issues
for 12 years, the company has been supporting the kakisonji-hagaki project,
part of unesco’s world terakoya movement. this is a communications-
related effort to increase the venues where literacy drives are conducted
globally, and is sponsored by the national federation of unesco
associations in japan. we collect kakisonji-hagaki (prepaid postcards that,
for some reason, cannot be used), unused stamps, and pre-paid cards to
raise funds for the terakoya movement.* following our extension of support                                         “tansu isan sankyodai (three heritage brothers from the
                                                                                                                   drawers)”
for a special website through enhanced communication activities, there
                                                                                                                   from the left
was a dramatic 229% year-on-year increase in the number of postcards we                                            unused stamp “harisonjiro”
collected. this provided a learning opportunity for 80,000 people during the                                       unusable prepaid postcards “kakisonjiro”
                                                                                                                   unused prepaid cards “tsukaisonjiro”
project’s run.
                       kakisonji-hagaki project ➡ http://www.unesco.or.jp/terakoya/kakisonji2016/
                                  * the collection period ran from november 1, 2015 until may 30, 2016.


japanese npos, ngos tackling global food issues
world food day is celebrated in october. organized by 11 npos and ngos,
as well as un agencies, it brings to mind the need to resolve food issues
around the globe. dentsu supports the program’s communication activities.
    to promote industry–academia collaboration and prompt people to
consider the significance of eating, dentsu together with 11 organizations,
the kanto gakuin university college of nutrition, and several artists together
produced the song gohan han han, which can be found on the internet.
we also experimented with using the program for children. we found that
their habits changed favorably and that after singing the song, their pickiness
regarding their food declined 13 percentage points. the song enabled us
to provide an opportunity for children to consider the significance of eating
and the reason it is not good to leave food on one’s plate. since they will be
forging the future, initiatives such as these should help increase the number
of food-conscious people.
    the song, “gohan han han,” that encourages people to consider the significance of eating ➡                     the singers of the theme song are “dj misoshiru and mc
                                        http://www.worldfoodday-japan.net/nokomono.php                             gohan” from the kagawa educational institute of nutrition
                                                                                                                   and “keropons” whose song “ebikanics” has been a big
note: the world food day organizers: the africa japan forum, we21 japan, oxfam japan, the japan                    hit with children.
      association for international collaboration of agriculture and forestry (jaicaf), second harvest
      japan, japan international food for the hungry, hunger free world, action for green sahel, the
      food and agriculture organization of the united nations (fao).




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                       057

                                                                                     contents



                                  sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr   ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report   ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities   ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




  environmental report




environmental protection


<social issues>
• promotion of environmental communication
• efforts on reducing the environmental burdens by each employee

<dentsu group’s approach>
dentsu considers environmental issues a key csr issue and established the environmental strategy
council, chaired by the president & ceo. as an environmental management system, dentsu eco
program sets out an environmental policy and environmental targets to advance company-wide efforts
for environmental protection. these efforts have been recognized, and dentsu was certified as an eco-
first company by the ministry of the environment. dentsu will continue to advance environmental
protection activities, not only through internal activities, but also through efforts in cooperation with
our stakeholders and the implementation of environmental communications, in order to contribute to
the realization of a sustainable society.




                                                                                 058                                                 dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                     contents



                                  sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr   ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report   ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities   ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




  environmental policy
  the dentsu group aims to make each employee strongly conscious of its corporate philosophy of “good innovation” and, based on the dentsu
  group code of conduct, reduce the environmental burden generated through its business operations in order to contribute to the realization of
  a sustainable society.
      • in order to realize a sustainable society, we will correctly assess the environmental impact of its business activities and work to reduce its
        burden on the environment.
      • work to develop and propose environmentally conscious business activities and contribute to the improvement of environmental issues.
      • ensure thorough implementation of environmental compliance and engage in ongoing improvements to boost environmental performance
        through more precisely defined environmental objectives and outcomes.

  <environmental protection>
    • actively endeavor to prevent pollution, alleviate climate change, and conserve biodiversity and ecosystems.

  <environmental communication>
    • actively engage in environmental education for the next generation and environmental communication activities to business partners and
      employees to raise recognition of environmental issues.

  environmental objectives
      1. promotion of activities to business partners, consumers and employees to raise recognition of environmental issues
      2. promotion of activities to prevent global warming and conserve ecosystems
      3. maintaining waste reduction and recycling at a high rate




structures for environmental activities
in july 2008, dentsu strengthened its arrangement for implementing environment-related measures
with the establishment of the environmental strategy council, chaired by the president & ceo, to
promote environmental strategy as a corporate group. additionally, the csr committee, one of
the company’s principal committees, designated environmental managers to advance group-wide
efforts for the environment. csr promotion committee members and eco committee members
advance environmental activities at respective dentsu divisions (offices). at each group company,
board members in charge of the eco program, environmental managers, supervisors, and promotion
committee members are appointed to advance environmental activities.

adoption of the dentsu group eco program
in january 2005, we adopted the dentsu group eco program (ongoing), and in may 2005, we acquired
iso 14001 certification. integrated group certification that included subsidiaries in japan was acquired
in june 2006. dentsu and 16 group companies hold this certification as of december 31, 2015.

eco-first commitment (revised)
dentsu presented a revised eco-first commitment to the minister of the environment in march 2012,
citing the following three points as focus areas.
     1. we will actively promote environmental communications, thereby spreading the
        environmental message to the public.
     2. we will support next-generation environmental communications and the environmental
        efforts of our employees.
     3. we will promote further advancements in “green” office buildings.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                    059

                                                                                     contents



                                  sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr   ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report   ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities   ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




the revised eco-first commitment promised that the dentsu head office building would release
21% less co2 than its average emission for fy2003–2004, and that 90% of its waste would be
recycled by fiscal 2015. in fact, in fy2015, the head office released 28.5% less co2, while the waste
recycling rate was 89.4%. we still play a leading role in the industry and continue to practice our
environmental approach.

raising awareness
environmental education
dentsu provides employees with a broad range of environmental knowledge so that they might play
a leading role in addressing environmental issues. as an example, dentsu encourages its employees
to take the certification test for environmental specialists, sponsored by the tokyo chamber of
commerce and industry. employees who acquire the certification are appointed as eco officers to
promote dentsu’s environmental activities.
     these employees also contribute to the promotion of the dentsu group eco program by acting as
inspectors when internal environmental audits are required, and as judges of environmental slogans.
in fiscal 2015, the certification was awarded to 89 employees.

awareness-raising using handbooks
dentsu creates handbooks as part of its awareness-raising activities for employees and uses them for
new employee training and other purposes.
    for example, the term “greenwash” is used in reference to labels and advertising that use
unsubstantiated information or partial data to give the impression that products or corporate
activities are more environmentally friendly than they actually are. this practice is under scrutiny
by corporations and npos. dentsu uses the greenwash guide in order to eliminate the risk of
greenwashing in advertising communications and to enhance employee knowledge. based on the
guidelines on greenwash in europe and the initiatives of leading overseas companies, dentsu revised
the greenwash guide and strives to raise awareness of the group companies in japan and overseas
from a global perspective.
    dentsu defines a “green event” as an event that is an environmentally friendly one, and the green
event guide is used for organizing such events. the guide describes how to organize green events
from the viewpoint of a pdca cycle, in line with the flow of event management, from the planning
stage to implementation and post-event evaluation. the guide includes case studies that are useful in
putting these instructions into practice.




greenwash guide                        green event guide




                                                                                 060                                                 dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                     contents



                                  sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr   ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report   ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities   ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




environment-related slogans and posters
to fully utilize its communication resources, in 2005, dentsu began inviting dentsu and dentsu
group employees and their families in japan to submit environmental slogans. in 2015, there were
a total of 8,133 entries in both the employee and family categories. the winning entries are used in
posters designed by dentsu art directors, thereby helping to raise environmental awareness among
employees.




                                                                                                            dentsu environmental
                                                                                                            posters produced in fiscal
                                                                                                            2016



curbing global warming
governance and climate change
the csr committee takes a lead in determining company policies and key items related to global
climate. these are discussed by the group’s environmental strategy council and csr committee,
before being reported to the executive management committee.

strategy and action plan
based on the group’s environmental policy, the csr committee conducts performance evaluations
on sustainability, and provides feedback to the business units through the csr promotion committee.
during the process, the risks and opportunities are discussed from medium- and long-term
perspectives. this is imperative, given that environmental protection one of the key targets of the
group’s medium-term csr strategy 2020.

risks and opportunities
with the recent expansion of our international business involving m&as and other means, our
global environmental burden may increase. recognizing the issue as a long-term emerging risk, in
collaboration with dan we are working on ways to reduce this burden.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                    061

                                                                                     contents



                                  sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr   ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report   ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities   ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




  dentsu aegis network csr activities




csr governance
dentsu aegis network recognizes that it has economic, social, and environmental impacts beyond
its core business. we launched the future proof program—our corporate social responsibility
(csr) strategy—to tackle these impacts and their associated risks and opportunities, and engage
all the stakeholders involved. future proof reflects the company’s material impacts, responds to the
challenges facing its people and the wider industry, and addresses the issues it is concerned about.




                                                                                 062                                                 dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                     contents



                                  sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr   ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report   ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities   ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




csr steering group
the csr strategy is set by the csr steering group, composed of the leaders of our global
functional departments and brand representatives. it is also responsible for setting the csr targets,
as well as ensuring they are aligned to the corporate strategy. the csr steering group, chaired by
nigel morris, ceo dentsu aegis network americas & emea, also oversees the implementation
of future proof by the global csr team and monitors its progress. the csr steering group meets
six times a year.

csr team
the global csr team is responsible for the implementation of future proof. the team, consisting
of three full-time employees in 2015, coordinates the measurement, reporting, and management
of all csr campaigns and programs—including compliance with the global csr, community, and
environmental policies. the global csr team manages all internal and external communication
and engagement with both csr champions and stakeholders, and regularly assesses the risks and
opportunities related to csr. these are reported to the company-wide risk committees.

csr champions
the csr team engages on a regular basis with a network of over 300 csr champions to help
execute future proof campaigns and programs in every office around the world. these champions
are volunteers and come from a variety of backgrounds, both client and functional side. the csr
champions are provided with free campaigns and programs by the global csr team to implement,
but are also encouraged to pursue specific issues and partnerships that are locally relevant to the
offices, brands, and culture.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                    063

                                                                                      contents



                                    sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson    ◆ dentsu group csr   ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report   ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities   ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




                                     why is it important that we “give back” and engage around corporate social responsibility (csr) as
                                     a leading global agency?
                                     during my time at dentsu aegis network, i have been working across some of our newest agency offerings,
                                     amnet and amplifi. to get these off the ground, we really are looking for some of the best and brightest out there,
                                     and as they are 100% digital and programmatic, we are increasingly looking for those people who can contribute
                                     innovative and creative value to our team. on top of that, these agencies have been some of the fastest growing in
                                     our network, doubling in size year-on-year. keeping this newly built ship steady and on course means developing
                                     a culture of engagement around our brand—and csr delivers that for us. it helps us build new teams, increase
                                     collaboration in the agency itself, and is a springboard for innovation, showcasing the power of what digital and
    louisa wong                      programmatic can do for charities.
                                     what do you want people to know about your involvement with future proof?
    chief digital officer amplifi
                                     in 2015, i joined the global csr steering group, making a contribution alongside functional and brand colleagues
                                     to the oversight of the csr team and csr strategy. i was so impressed to get a view of everything that is going
                                     on around our network and, most importantly, the hard work behind the scenes by many volunteers to make sure
                                     we actually deliver real impact on the ground. i had the pleasure to help develop our new five-year csr strategy
                                     launched in 2016 with some ambitious goals until 2020. we can really build on some of the success of future proof
                                     over the last five years and take a leadership role in our industry.
                                     what are you proud of last year?
                                     that’s a really personal story for me. 2015 will stand out in history as the year of the refugee. rather than a “far-
                                     from-my- bed show,” it came close to home for many of us working and living in europe. i spearheaded our efforts
                                     to make a small contribution when we had our annual leadership agency conference in hungary in 2015. i asked
                                     everyone to bring an extra suitcase of winter clothing for a charity that helps refugees that had entered the country.
                                     many of our media partners contributed, too, and together we released an enormous amount of clothing that
                                     helped more than 1,000 refugees locally. my little contribution to the bigger picture.




                                     why is it important that we “give back” and engage around corporate social responsibility (csr) as
                                     a leading global agency?
                                     first and foremost, i believe that csr builds a really strong culture of engagement in our agency. our success
                                     depends on our ability to attract and retain the best talent in our industry and make sure that they grow as
                                     individuals whilst they are with us. csr is a key part of our value proposition, and it contributes strongly to the
                                     culture of responsibility, ambition, and collaboration that we have. it also helps bring our values alive, off the
                                     page, and into hearts and minds. as we’re aiming for continued growth in our region, csr is more than ever a key
                                     building block for an engaged and successful agency.
                                     what do you want people to know about your involvement with future proof?
    dawn rowlands                    what i want people to know about south africa’s contribution in 2015 to future proof is really that we are moving
                                     from doing “less bad” to “more good.” environmental responsibility remains important, and of course, our people’s
    chief executive officer,
    dentsu aegis network sub
                                     efforts to give blood, raise funds, and give back in a million other small ways are fantastic. but when thinking “more
    saharan africa                   good,” i firmly believe that in the future we will see more projects like isobar nowlab’s mandela day rural coding
                                     day—where our people joined in a collaborative project to bring coding to rural young people across south africa
                                     and inspire them to envisage a better future. that’s what we as agencies can do, share our skills and reach as many
                                     people as possible to inspire them.
                                     what are you proud of last year?
                                     alongisde the nowlab’s rural coding initiative, i am proud of launching our new csr strategy in south africa, which
                                     has been re-aligned closely with the needs of all the stakeholders. we are focusing very strongly on local impact,
                                     adopting local schools in cape town and johannesburg and working with them to identify and address the key
                                     issues they are facing. this new two-year partnership, spearheaded by bongiwe mhkize, is much more focused on
                                     longer-term impact and responsive to the local needs. that is what csr should ultimately be about: not what is the
                                     sexiest, but what is most needed in the world around us.




                                                                                  064                                                 dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                     contents



                                  sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr   ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report   ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities   ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




csr strategy


we launched future proof in 2010, reflecting our material impacts, responding to the biggest
challenges facing our people and our industry, and addressing the issues we are concerned about. as
our comprehensive csr strategy, future proof set a clear vision for our business:

become a more responsible business
this means doing the right thing from the get-go, reducing our impact on the environment and
weeding out illegal behavior. it is about a system of good governance, effective monitoring, and
credible reporting.

inspire positive action
we have the reach and scope to make a positive impact on society. this means we play an active role
in giving back to our communities, and we invest in a better environment.

innovate the way brands are built
future proof encourages internal collaboration, connections, and trust that help our vision come alive.
it means doing things in a different and better way.
    this vision has inspired the progress and performance of future proof since 2010 and enabled
us to accept our responsibility as a corporate citizen, make a valuable contribution to our local
communities, and start the process of innovating in all the work we undertake.

our targets
as part of our vision for future proof, we set four ambitious targets until 2015, on which we have
reported progress and performance on an annual basis since 2010. the four targets reflect the most
important issues in future proof and are set at a global level:
   • reduce the carbon footprint per average person by 20%
   • increase the community investment to the equivalent of 1% of our people’s time
   • enable 90% of employees to understand what future proof means in their day-to-day job
   • involve 90% of employees in creating the best place to work in the industry


  our delivery model
  we have a unique four-part delivery model to help us achieve our 2015 targets. this model explains what steps
  we are taking to drive positive outcomes across our company.
  1. global campaigns to raise awareness among our mostly digital and young audience. examples of these in
     2015 are energize, ignite, and care.
  2. global programs that leverage the power of digital to inspire positive action across our network. examples of
     this in 2015 are route to good and globalgivingtime.
  3. global integration of future proof into functional departments, such as hr, technology, finance, facilities,
     procurement, and legal to embed csr into our day-to-day operations.
  4. local partnerships that unlock meaningful action in the communities and environments near our offices
     through our future proof champions.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                    065

                                                                                     contents



                                  sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr   ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report   ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities   ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




energize


in 2015, we brought a lot of our environmental and workplace campaigns together under the heading of “energize.” this
campaign ran from march 1, 2015, to april 30, 2015, and it focused on raising awareness and unlocking greener and healthier
behavior in and around our place of work. the campaign centered on earth day on april 22nd as a focal point for activities, but
activities were deployed year-round. when it comes to wellbeing, we partner with human resources (hr) to further develop
the workplace agenda.

local partnerships story: million trees moscow
as part of its 10th anniversary celebrations, vizeum in russia joined the million
trees global campaign to green moscow. following up on an earlier event
three years ago, the whole office came together to plant 20 cedars and 20
junipers in the grounds of a local school, the 1550 lyceum. it is symbolic that
the main element of the vizeum logo is a tree, which reflects an idea of growth
and development. this event brought the office together and brought our
values alive. by leaving a custom-made sign, we make sure everyone can
see what contribution vizeum made in 2015. this is a permanent and lasting
impact on the environment in moscow and beyond.

functional integration story: germany going 100% green
everyone is affected by climate change—whether personally or as a business.
with a demand of more than 1.3 million kwh per year, dentsu aegis network in
germany could make a big difference. we already reduced our consumption
by 20% since 2010, but in 2015, we aimed to switch all our offices in germany
to 100% green electricity. by bundling our entire consumption together, we
had a strong bargaining position. even though we switched from cheap
nuclear electricity to 100% renewable energy, we managed to still reduce the
total costs of germany’s electricity consumption by 100,000 euros. this means
germany is now 100% green since january 1, 2016.




                                    why is it important that we “give back” and engage around corporate social responsibility (csr) as
                                    a leading global agency?
                                    in my role, i have to find the balance between our finite resources, our ambitious growth strategy, and the demands
                                    of our people and clients. csr plays a key role in doing this successfully. taking action on our environmental
                                    performance reduces our financial burden and makes us more resilient for the inevitable impacts of resource scarcity
                                    and price fluctuations in the future. it also helps us make a stronger case in the pitch to our clients and people: we
                                    are an agency that thinks much beyond own four walls, of create wider social and environmental benefits.
                                    what do you want people to know about your involvement with future proof?
                                    i think it’s important to show people that csr is not only for communications, hr, or brand people; functional
    daniel ahrens                   leaders in finance and technology can also get involved and actually make a huge contribution. it may not involve
                                    everyone in the office like volunteering or pro bono work does, but it makes a huge impact. whether it is better
    commercial director
    dentsu aegis network
                                    procurement of electronic equipment, improving our server or power management, or investing in greener offices,
    germany                         these are all things that functional people can contribute. bringing these hidden contributions to light is what i want
                                    to do and why i take a leadership role. without these people and their passion, we would not go half as fast on our
                                    csr journey!
                                    what are you proud of last year?
                                    together with the future proof team here in germany, we really wanted to make a giant leap forward when it came
                                    to our environmental performance and show our leadership in our network. we were thinking, “how can we have
                                    the biggest impact on our environmental performance?” and we realized that, if in some way we could run without
                                    any energy consumption, we would really be the greenest in the network! that’s how we started an energy audit
                                    and tender to find ways to save. in the end, we consolidated all energy consumption with one supplier, saving us
                                    100,000 euros whilet also switching us to 100% certified green electricity. we are now the first country in dentsu
                                    aegis network to go 100% green.




                                                                                 066                                                 dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                     contents



                                  sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr   ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report   ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities   ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




ignite


in 2015, we brought our non-skilled and team-based volunteering together under the heading of “ignite.” this campaign ran
from may 1, 2015, until july 31, 2015, and it focused on raising awareness and unlocking volunteering time and enthusiasm from
our people around the network. the campaign centered on one day for change on june 4th and 5th as a starting point for
activities, but community support was deployed year-round.

local partnership story: refugees welcome
in 2015, thousands of refugees from the middle east, particularly syria, fled to
europe. in germany alone, approximately 1.1m refugees arrived after braving
the dangerous and uncertain journey across europe. led by the hamburg
office, all brands in germany came together to launch “refugees welcome”
in response. 40 volunteers formed a core organizing team that delivered
50 boxes of donated clothing, organized several events with the refugee
children (such as football games, excursions for the kids, etc.) to create even
stronger relations and experiences. overall, we showed that “deutschland
schafft das” (“germany can do it”). carat ceo christopher samsinger said,
“this is 110% responsible: i love it!”

local partnership story: dryden primary school
dentsu aegis network south africa recently adopted dryden primary
school, situated 2.5 km from the cape town offices. this partnership will be
for the duration of about 24 months to complete a revamp of the school.
all brands have adopted a class and each takes its in turn to lead activities.
work on the fabric of the school started in 2015, and helpful materials were
fundraised. in addition, we have gone into partnership with one of carat’s
clients, woolworths financial services, who has agreed to assist with 50% of
refurbishment costs of the school as well as participate in any dentsu aegis
network arranged activities.




                                    why is important that we “give back” and engage around corporate social responsibility (csr) as
                                    a leading global agency?
                                    as a global agency, we have the responsibility and the privilege of highlighting issues that concern us. with such a
                                    wide reach, we have to take the lead in our industry on the issue of csr. for me, that means enabling our people
                                    to give back and make a difference. that’s why in south africa we set up some fantastic programs that really involve
                                    and engage our people with environmental and social issues. we can show the way for other agencies in our
                                    industry.
                                    what do you want people to know about your involvement with future proof?
                                    coming from a finance background, i took the lead for csr in south africa, and we built some fantastic long-term
    bongiwe mkhize                  programs that deliver real impact. our main focus is on the key issues that the neighborhood around our offices
    csr coordinator                 in cape town and johannesburg encounter. we adopted two local schools and are working through a two-year
                                    program with them to support them in any way possible. dentsu aegis network south africa also supports sani
                                    sisters, bringing female hygiene education and products to the underprivileged.
                                    what are you proud of last year?
                                    i am most proud of the increase in participation on the various projects we were involved in, across each of our
                                    brands and divisions. in addition, we built a partnership with our client woolworths financial services to support
                                    our local schools, leveraging our scale for better partnerships.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                    067

                                                                                     contents



                                  sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr   ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report   ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities   ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




care


in 2015, we brought our skilled and pro-bono volunteering together under the heading of “care.” this campaign ran from
october 1, 2015, until december 31, 2015, and it focused on raising awareness and unlocking skilled, pro-bono volunteering
time and enthusiasm from our people around the network. the campaign centered on the #1000cranes global action day on
december 4th as a focal point, but activities occurred year-round.

functional integration story: dentsu maker lab kids
this innovative and ground-breaking initiative aims to inspire the next
generation of advertising stars and stimulate the development of more than
28 children. children from the local community were invited to take part in a
series of 18 workshops (two editions until now), during which kids could learn
more about robotics, 3d printing, game programming and creating web
pages, composing music, and wise use of media. the program, supported
by dan volunteers from the office, was realized in close cooperation with the
foundation “ruszyła maszyna,” which aims to inspire the next generation
in poland.

local partnership story: #likeforlife
every day, 70 people across hungary die of sudden heart attacks. many of
these deaths could be prevented if more people knew the basics of cpr—
cardiopulmonary resuscitation. isobar in hungary tried to do just this. isobar
hungary worked with the red cross to raise awareness of the potential of
cpr to save lives. for this, they partnered with instagram. isobar hungary
used this simple tool to ensure that the next time you “tap,” you do it to
save a life. as a result of the campaign, the number of followers of the red
cross instagram campaign increased by 66%. with an uplift of 2,000 more
participants, 37k hungarians are now trained in cpr.




                                                                                 068                                                 dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                              contents



                                       sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson        ◆ dentsu group csr       ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report          ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities       ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




data summary


benchmarks cdp

                                                    fy2012                                     fy2013                                     fy2014                                   fy2015

dentsu                                                    83b                                      86b                                        93b                                     94c

dan                                                       79c                                      81c                                        90c                                     97b




employment data (basically non-consolidated)

number of employees (each year-end)                                                               employee composition (dec. 31, 2015)

                   fy2011          fy2012       fy2013           fy2014       fy2015                                                             male             female             total

consolidated       21,649          37,450        39,427          43,583        47,324               executive officers, others                      34                  0              34

non-consolidated    7,494           7,515         7,425           7,348         7,261               management staff                            1,574                139             1,713

                                                                                                    non-management staff                         2,889             1,057             3,946

                                                                                                    contract employees                              280              221              501

                                                                                                    clerical staff                                    2              532              534

                                                                                                    partners / senior staff                          96               35              131

                                                                                                    part-timers, others                              20               13               33

                                                                                                    seconded from other entities                    289               80              369

                                                                                                   total                                         5,184             2,077             7,261

                                                                                                  note 1: executive officers, others: includes senior corporate advisors, special
                                                                                                          advisors, and executive officers
                                                                                                  note 2: part-timers, others: includes permanent part-timers, non-permanent
                                                                                                          part- timers, and trainees from overseas


employees by age and gender (each year-end)

                                                    fy2011                         fy2012                            fy2013                          fy2014                        fy2015

  under 30 yrs.                                         1,592                        1,593                            1,535                               1,403                      1,389

  30-39                                                 2,764                        2,727                            2,682                               2,618                      2,576

  40-49                                                 1,845                        1,803                            1,773                               1,798                      1,805

  50-59                                                 1,144                        1,252                            1,290                               1,380                      1,326

  60 and over                                             149                           140                               145                              149                        165

total                                                   7,494                        7,515                            7,425                               7,348                      7,261

average age                                               38.6                          38.9                           39.6                                39.5                       39.5

  male                                                    39.8                          40.1                           40.9                                40.8                       40.9

  female                                                  35.7                          36.0                           36.1                                36.4                       36.1

average length of service (yrs.)                          12.8                          13.1                           13.9                                13.9                       13.3

  male                                                    14.4                          14.7                           15.5                                15.4                       14.8

  female                                                   8.9                           9.3                              9.8                              10.2                        9.5




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                             069

                                                                                            contents



                                   sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson    ◆ dentsu group csr         ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report       ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities         ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




new graduates hired                                                                             average number of paid vacation days taken

                fy2012         fy2013       fy2014             fy2015       fy2016                                fy2011         fy2012         fy2013           fy2014        fy2015*

total                 192         136           135               132           144              total               10.5            10.6            10.3           10.8            8.4

 male                 132          93               91             92            88               male                 9.6            9.7             9.2               9.6         7.5

 female                60          43               44             40            56               female             13.1            12.9            13.1           13.8           10.6
female
component           31.3%       31.6%         32.6%             30.3%        38.9％               leave taken       52.5%           53.0%            51.5%         54.0%          42.0%




annual paid vacation in hour increments taken (part of paid vacation days)

                                                fy2011                           fy2012                          fy2013                         fy2014                         fy2015*

total hours taken                                   36,094                        42,994                          45,005                        49,712                           38,275

total number of people taking leave                 13,632                        16,161                          17,111                        14,568                           14,308

number of hours taken at one time                        2.6                          2.7                            2.6                              3.4                           2.7




employees’ health check-up rate                                                                 employees taking childcare leave, reinstatement ratio

                fy2011         fy2012       fy2013             fy2014      fy2015*                                fy2011          fy2012        fy2013           fy2014        fy2015*

total               99.0%       99.1％        99.2％              99.0%         76.1%              total                 44              44              51               60          81

                                                                                                  male                     7            8              11               10          15

                                                                                                  female               37              36              40               50          66
                                                                                                 reinstatement     95.2%           95.5%            96.1%          100%           100%
                                                                                                 ratio

                                                                                                note: in fy2014, we recounted the number of the employee who took child
                                                                                                      care leave in the past and revised the number in conjunction with the
post-retirement employees                                                                             reinstatement ratio.

               fy2011          fy2012      fy2013              fy2014      fy2015*

total                 41           28               32             55            53             employment rate of people with disabilities

  male                34           21               22             45            44                               june 2013           june 2014             june 2015         june 2016

  female               7            7               22             10             9              total                 1.62％                1.79％              2.01％             2.04％




                                                                                                               * scope of calculation: 9 months, from april 2015 to december 2015




                                                                                        070                                                         dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                                    contents



                                             sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson              ◆ dentsu group csr       ◆ social responsibility report      ◆ environmental report   ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities    ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




environmental data

dentsu’s environmental performance trends


   dentsu group (excluding waste) calculation of environmental performance data

   basic unit and individual criteria
   - calculation commenced in 2014. the period for calculation is from january 1, 2015, to december 31, 2015.
   - excluding some of dentsu group companies.
   - intensity per full-time equivalent (fte) employee was calculated based on a figure of 44,059 persons for
     co2 and 44,059 for water.
   - for co2 emissions, categories 1, 5, 6, and 7 were calculated for scope 3.
   * based on the calculation standards of wri (world resources institute) ghg protocol


   co2 emissions (fy 2015)                                                   amount of waste (fy 2015)

                                scope 1     scope 2   scope 3        total    water consumption (m3)       502,813
                                                                                                                                lloyd’s register quality assurance limited (lrqa)
   co2 emissions (tons)           4,482      53,836    51,522     109,840     water consumption per fte        11.41
                                                                                                                                provides third-party assurance on dentsu’s co2
   co2 emissions per fte          0.102       1.222      1.169      2.493                                                       emissions (greenhouse gas emissions).




dentsu inc. calculation of environmental performance data

                               co2 emission intensity per floor space unit 253,193.97m2        waste and water per floor space unit 252,512.90m2
       basic unit
       (fy 2014)               - the floor space of the kyoto account management division was excluded from the calculation of the amount of waste generated and water used.
                               - intensity per full-time equivalent (fte) employee was calculated based on a figure of 7,261 persons.

                               calculation period       one year from january 1 to december 31 for each year.
                               co2 emissions            the coefficient specified under the act on the rational use of energy (energysaving act) is applied.
       individual
                               waste                    the volume of waste generated (in kg) is the sum of general waste and industrial waste (including waste oil, waste plastic).
        criteria
                               water resource usage     the volume of water resources used is the sum of municipal water and gray water at the tokyo head office, and the municipal
                                                        water used at the kansai branch office and chubu branch office.




co2 emissions

                                            fy2011               fy2012            fy2013               fy2014            fy2015      2016 (forecast)

co2 emissions (tons)                         20,684               22,656            23,916                23,520          21,515              21,299

co2 emissions per m of floor space
                       2
                                              0.081                0.089             0.094                 0.093           0.085               0.084

co2 emissions per fte                         2.760                3.015             3.221                 3.201           2.963               2.933



amount of waste

                                            fy2011               fy2012            fy2013               fy2014            fy2015      2016 (forecast)

amount of waste (kg)                      1,818,629           1,878,365          1,862,891             2,195,858        2,456,855          2,432,286

amount of waste per m2 of floor space         7.135                7.370             7.377                 8.696           9.730               9.632

amount of waste per fte                     242.678              249.949           250.894              298.837          338.363             334.980



water consumption

                                            fy2011               fy2012            fy2013               fy2014            fy2015      2016 (forecast)

water consumption(m )      3
                                            156,210              168,236           160,046              153,852          152,452             150,927

water consumption per m2 of floor space       0.613                0.660             0.634                 0.609           0.604               0.598

water consumption per fte                    20.845               22.387            21.555                20.938          20.996              20.786




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                                   071

                                                                                          contents



                                   sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson    ◆ dentsu group csr       ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report      ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities    ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




employees with eco test certification                                                         environmental slogan entries (dentsu and dentsu group companies in japan)

                fy2011         fy2012       fy2013         fy2014         fy2015                                 fy2011        fy2012       fy2013        fy2014        fy2015

total                90            90           100              50            89              total               7,917         6,909         8,230        8,082         8,133
                                                                                                employee
                                                                                                category           6,561         5,740         7,134        7,296         7,169
                                                                                                family
                                                                                                category           1,356         1,169         1,096            786         964




human rights activities

human rights slogan entries                                                                   students participating in the human rights art project

                fy2011         fy2012       fy2013         fy2014         fy2015                                 fy2011        fy2012       fy2013        fy2014        fy2015

total             9,398         8,430         9,866           8,584         9,913                                    121           103           74              79          59
 employee
 category         8,219         7,310         8,723           7,765         9,001
 family
 category         1,179         1,120         1,143             819           912




social contributions activities

advertising elementary school                                                                 keys to communicating

                fy2011         fy2012       fy2013         fy2014        fy2015*                                 fy2011        fy2012       fy2013        fy2014       fy2015*
participating
                     61            86               90           92            27              implementation         16            20           14              11           4
schools
participants      4,449         6,051         7,382           6,203         1,785              participants          678           676          557             414         108



michinoku fukkou jigyou partners                                                              unesco’s world terakoya movement

                fy2011         fy2012       fy2013         fy2014         fy2015                                 fy2011        fy2012       fy2013        fy2014        fy2015
participating         –            20               18           15              6             participating         500           500          500             500         500
organizations                                                                                  organizations
                                                                                               participants          925           593         1,277        1,690         1,718



world food day                                                                                chinese researchers invited

                fy2011         fy2012       fy2013         fy2014         fy2015                                  fy2011       fy2012       fy2013        fy2014       fy2015*
participating                                                                                  invited
organizations         1             1                1           12            12              universities            6             6             6              6           6
                                                                                               participating
participants      9,365        19,510        17,422          13,995        10,176              researchers             6             6             6              6           6



advertising education forum for chinese advertising educators                                 advertising seminars for chinese students

                fy2011         fy2012       fy2013         fy2014         fy2015                                  fy2011       fy2012       fy2013        fy2014       fy2015*
participating                                                                                  participating
universities         30            31               34           36              –             universities           22             –           19              25           9
                                                                                               participating
participants         58            64               66           63              –             students            1,100             –         1,200            500         480




                                                                                                               * scope of calculation: 9 months from april 2015 to december 2015




                                                                                      072                                                    dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                     contents



                                  sustainability


◆ message of the chairperson   ◆ dentsu group csr   ◆ social responsibility report     ◆ environmental report   ◆ dentsu aegis network csr activities   ◆ data summary
  of csr committee




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                    073

                                       contents



        financial report




f
    i
        n
            a
                   n
                           c
                               i
                                   a
                                        l

                                                  r
                                                      e
                                                          p
                                                              o
                                                                  r
                                                                      t




                                       074                                dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                                   contents



                                                          financial report




consolidated operating highlights (ifrs)
dentsu inc. and consolidated subsidiaries




                                                                                                                                                                                        (millions of yen)
                                                                                   consolidated (financial reporting basis) ifrs                      consolidated (calendar year basis (pro forma)) ifrs
                                                                                       2014/3                 2015/3                    2015/12                          2014                      2015
turnover                                                                            4,177,278             4,642,390                    4,513,955                    4,642,901                 4,990,854
revenue                                                                               659,772                 728,626                    706,469                      725,886                   818,566
gross profit                                                                          614,654                 676,925                    669,489                      676,882                   761,996
organic gross profit growth rate(1) consolidated                                             –                  5.8%                             –                           –                     7.0%
organic gross profit growth rate japan                                                       –                  2.2%                             –                           –                     3.9%
organic gross profit growth rate international                                               –                 10.3%                        9.4%                        10.3%                      9.4%
operating profit                                                                      107,283                 132,305                    107,265                      137,558                   128,212
underlying operating profit(2)                                                        125,593               131,937                      133,328                      133,402                   160,438
operating margin(3) consolidated                                                        20.4%                  19.5%                       19.9%                        19.7%                     21.1%
operating margin japan                                                                  23.6%                  23.9%                       24.7%                        24.2%                     26.0%
operating margin international                                                          16.7%                  15.3%                       16.9%                        15.3%                     16.9%
profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent                               66,507                  79,846                     72,653                       81,409                     83,090
underlying profit(4)                                                                   84,395                  92,875                     94,368                       89,179                   113,388
basic earnings per share                                                              ¥241.49               ¥276.89                      ¥254.05                      ¥282.31                   ¥289.95
basic underlying profit per share                                                     ¥306.38               ¥322.08                      ¥329.98                      ¥309.26                   ¥395.67
return on equity (roe)(5)                                                                9.1%                   8.1%                        6.8%                         8.2%                      7.7%
underlying roe                                                                          11.5%                   9.4%                        8.8%                         9.0%                     10.6%
roa(6)                                                                                   4.5%                   4.6%                        3.4%                             –                           –
ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent(7)                                 33.5%                  34.2%                       34.8%                             –                    34.8%
cash dividend per share                                                                    ¥33                    ¥55                         ¥75                          ¥55                       ¥75
dividend payout ratio(8)                                                                13.7%                  19.9%                       29.5%                        19.5%                     25.9%
underlying dividend payout ratio                                                        10.8%                  17.1%                       22.7%                        17.8%                     19.0%

(1) organic gross profit growth rate represents the constant currency year-on-year growth after adjusting for the effect of business acquired or disposed of since the
     beginning of the previous year
(2) underlying operating profit is a kpi to measure recurring business performance which is calculated as operating profit added with amortization of m&a related intangible
     assets, acquisition costs and one-off items such as impairment loss and gain/loss on sales of non-current assets.
(3) underlying operating profit ÷ gross profit × 100
(4) underlying net profit (attributable to owners of the parent): kpi to measure recurring net profit attributable to owners of the parent which is calculated as net profit
     (attributable to owners of the parent) added with adjustment items related to operating profit, revaluation of earnout liabilities/m&a related put-option liabilities, tax-
     related and nci profit-related and other oneoff items
(5) roe (ifrs) = profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent ÷ average equity attributable to owners of the parent based on equity at the beginning and end of
     the fiscal year × 100
(6) roa (ifrs) = profit before tax ÷ average total assets based on total assets at the beginning and end of the fiscal year × 100
(7) ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent = equity attributable to owners of the parent÷total assets
(8) dividend payout ratio = cash dividend per share ÷ basic earnings per share × 100



   change in fiscal period
   effective from the current fiscal year, the company and its subsidiaries with fiscal year-ends other than december 31 have changed their
   fiscal year-ends to december 31. as a result of this change, the consolidated fiscal year-end date has been changed from march 31 to
   december 31, and the current fiscal year is the nine-month period from april 1, 2015 to december 31, 2015. the fiscal year-end date of
   dentsu aegis network ltd. and its subsidiaries, which operate the group’s international business, is already december 31. consequently,
   the financial results of these companies for the twelve-month period from january 1, 2015 to december 31, 2015 have been consolidated
   into the group’s consolidated financial results for the current fiscal year. [on a reporting basis]
   figures calculated on the assumption that the group’s accounting periods for both the previous fiscal year and the fiscal year ended
   december 31, 2015 were the periods from january 1 to december 31, and are provided as reference figures for the purpose of making
   comparisons. [on a calendar year basis (pro forma)]

   financial reporting basis                                                                             calendar year basis (pro forma)
   ■2  015/3: 	japan business apr.-mar. (twelve months) + international business                       ■ 2014: 	japan business jan.-dec. (twelve months) + international business
                 jan.-dec. (twelve months)                                                                        jan.-dec. (twelve months)
   ■ 2015/12: 	japan business apr.-dec. (nine months) + international business                         ■ 2015: 	japan business jan.-dec. (twelve months) + international business
                 jan.-dec. (twelve months)                                                                        jan.-dec. (twelve months)
                                   2014                                   2015                                                           2014                                    2015
                   jan.-mar. apr.–jun. jul.–sep. oct.–dec jan.-mar. apr.–jun. jul.–sep. oct.–dec                         jan.-mar. apr.–jun. jul.–sep. oct.–dec jan.-mar. apr.–jun. jul.–sep. oct.–dec
     japan                                                                                                 japan
    business                                                                                              business
                                      2015/3                                 2015/12                                                     2014                                    2015
   international                                                                                         international
     business                                                                                              business




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                                      075

                                                                                  contents



                                                   financial report




gross profit                                                                            operating profit

    (billions                                                                                (billions
     of yen)                                                                                  of yen)
       1,000                                                                                       150



        750
                                                                                                 100


        500

                                                                                                   50
        250



           0                                                                                        0
                  3/14       3/15      12/15         2014      2015                                       3/14       3/15      12/15         2014      2015
                   financial reporting basis       calendar year basis                                    financial reporting basis       calendar year basis
                                                       (pro forma)                                                                            (pro forma)


underlying operating profit / operating margin                                          profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent / return on equity (roe)

    (billions                                                                                (billions
     of yen)                                                             (%)                  of yen)                                                           (%)
          200                                                            40                       150                                                           12



        150                                                              30                                                                                         9
                                                                                                 100


        100                                                              20                                                                                         6

                                                                                                  50
          50                                                             10                                                                                         3



           0                                                              0                         0                                                               0
                  3/14       3/15      12/15         2014      2015                                       3/14       3/15      12/15         2014      2015
                   financial reporting basis       calendar year basis                                    financial reporting basis       calendar year basis
                                                       (pro forma)                                                                            (pro forma)
                 underlying operating profit        operating margin                                     profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent
                                                                                                          roe          underlying roe


cash dividend per share / dividend payout ratio                                         ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent

       (yen)                                                             (%)                     (%)
        150                                                              30                     35.0



                                                                                                34.5
        100                                                              20


                                                                                                34.0

         50                                                              10
                                                                                                33.5



           0                                                              0                         0
                  3/14       3/15      12/15         2014      2015                                       3/14       3/15      12/15         2014      2015
                   financial reporting basis       calendar year basis                                    financial reporting basis       calendar year basis
                                                       (pro forma)                                                                            (pro forma)
                cash dividend per share
                 dividend payout ratio         underlying dividend payout ratio




                                                                                  076                                                   dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                               contents



                                            financial report




management’s discussion and analysis of financial position and operating results
dentsu inc. and consolidated subsidiaries
as of june 26, 2015




any forward-looking statements in the following                      of advertising, including creative, and various content-
discussion and analysis are based on the judgment of                 related services.
management as of the date that dentsu inc. (hereinafter                 revenue from the production of advertising and
“dentsu” or “the company”) filed its securities report               other advertising-related services is recorded based
for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2015 with regulatory             on the consideration paid as compensation for such
authorities.                                                         services to the group by advertisers and others less
                                                                     costs incurred. in some cases, revenue is also recorded
significant accounting policies and estimates                        based on a fixed fee or other compensation.
                                                                        revenue from commissions received from advertisers
the company’s consolidated financial statements                      for the placement of advertising is generally recognized
are prepared on the basis of international financial                 when the media is placed. other revenue is generally
reporting standards (ifrs), published by the                         recorded when the service is completed, an estimate
international accounting standards board.                            of the amount of compensation can be reasonably
   in the preparation of these consolidated financial                determined and it is probable that the future economic
statements, management discloses the amounts of                      benefit will flow to the group.
the reported asset and liability figures as well as those               revenue and costs arising from transactions
of off-balance sheet transactions such as contingent                 relating to services other than advertising services are
liabilities, as of the date the accounts are closed.                 presented as a gross amount.
management also estimates the impact of these figures                   turnover represents the total amount billed and
on the company’s financial position and operating                    billable to clients by the group, net of discounts, vat
results during the reporting period. management                      and other sales-related taxes. disclosure of turnover
continuously evaluates forecasts and assumptions                     information is not required under ifrs.
regarding such items as investments, retirement
benefits and corporate taxes, as well as contingencies               impairment loss on property, plant and equipment,
and litigation. management bases its estimates and                   goodwill, intangible assets and investment property
assumptions on the consideration of several factors,
given past performance and conditions. these results                 the group determines whether there is any indication
underpin asset and liability book values and reported                of potential impairment loss on non-financial assets
revenue and expense figures. however, uncertainties                  excluding inventories and deferred tax assets on the
are inherent in such results and estimates may vary                  closing date. if any such indication exists, an impairment
from actual results.                                                 test shall be conducted based on the recoverable
   the critical accounting policies described below                  amount of relevant assets. goodwill and intangible
are those that management considers to have                          assets with indefinite useful lives are not subject to
specific potential to affect the financial position and              amortization, and are instead tested for impairment loss
operating results of the group. such policies may also               annually regardless of whether there is any indication of
include important assumptions and estimates used                     impairment, or every time when there is an indication
in creating the company’s consolidated financial                     of impairment loss. the recoverable amount of assets
statements and therefore have a material impact on                   shall be either the fair value of assets or cash-generating
these statements.                                                    units after deducting costs of disposal of the assets,
                                                                     or value in use, whichever is higher. if the carrying
revenue recognition                                                  amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its
                                                                     recoverable amount, the carrying amount of the asset
revenue consists primarily of commissions received for               is reduced to its recoverable amount and impairment
the placement of advertising into different media and                loss is recognized. in the calculation of its value in use,
consideration received from advertisers and others for               certain assumptions regarding useful life, future cash flow,
providing services, such as assistance in the production             growth rate, discount rate, etc., of the asset are used.



dentsu integrated report 2016                                  077

                                                               contents



                                    financial report




   these assumptions are determined based on past                    provisions
performance, best estimates, and judgments based
on business plans approved by the management of                      provisions are recognized when the group has a
the company. the assumptions, however, may be                        present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of
affected by modifications in business strategies and                 a past event, it is probable that the obligation will be
changes in market environment. if any change to these                required to be settled, and a reliable estimate can be
assumptions is required, the amount of impairment                    made of the amount of the obligation. where the effect
loss to be recognized may be significantly affected.                 of the time value of money is material, provisions are
                                                                     measured based on the present value using a discount
valuation of financial instruments                                   rate reflecting the risks specific to the liability.
                                                                        such provisions are calculated based on the best
the group holds financial assets such as securities                  estimate, taking uncertainties on the closing date into
and derivatives, and uses certain assumptions in                     consideration. however, the amount may be impacted
the valuation thereof. fair values are determined in                 in case of any unforeseeable event s or changes in
accordance with calculation procedures such as the                   circumstances. if the actual result varies from the
market approach, as well as referencing market prices.               estimate, the amount of obligations to be recorded
in particular, the fair value of stocks that are actively            may be significantly affected.
traded in the market, among other securities and
financial assets, is determined based on the market                  collectability of differed tax assets
price. the fair value of stocks that are not actively
traded in the market is evaluated at the amount                      deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it
calculated by using observable market data, or at the                is probable that taxable profits will be available against
amount calculated primarily by the market approach                   which carryforwards of unused tax losses, tax credit
using unobservable inputs.                                           carryforwards and deductible temporary differences
   management evaluates whether the valuation                        can be utilized. deferred tax assets are reassessed at
of fair value of financial instruments is conducted                  the end of the fiscal year and reduced by the amount
in a reasonable manner. however, fair value to be                    of any tax benefits that are not expected to be realized.
recognized may be significantly affected if any revision                the group records deferred tax assets based on
to the estimate is required due to unforeseeable                     future taxable income and ongoing tax planning
changes in assumptions that underlie the value.                      that emphasizes cautious and highly implementable
                                                                     approaches. thus, we determine that the collectability
valuation of defined benefit obligation                              is evaluated based on reasonable estimates. however,
                                                                     such estimates may be impacted in case of any
defined benefit obligation and retirement benefit costs              unforeseeable events or changes in circumstances.
are recorded on the basis of pension actuarial calculations.         if the actual result varies from the estimate, costs
these calculations are dependent upon such factors as                to be recognized and assets to be recorded may be
the discount rate, future compensation levels, employee              significantly affected.
turnover, and mortality rates, among others.
   management evaluates whether those assumptions                    change of the closing date
that underlie the above values are reasonable.
however, if the actual values of these factors vary                  dentsu, inc. has changed its closing dates from march
from the forecast values, or if the assumptions that                 31 to december 31, and its subsidiaries with closing
underlie these values change, the company may                        dates other than december 31 have also changed
be significantly impacted by the recognition of such                 their closing dates to december 31. accordingly, for
costs or by the recording of such liabilities, on a                  the fiscal year ended december 31, 2015, the reporting
consolidated basis.                                                  period of the company and its major subsidiaries



                                                               078                                   dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                            contents



                                  financial report




engaging in the japan business covers nine months,                during the previous consolidated fiscal year.
from april 1, 2015 to december 31, 2015. the reporting               as a result, operating profit for the consolidated
period of subsidiaries engaging in the international              fiscal year under review reached 107.2 billion yen (see
business covers 12 months, from january 1, 2015 to                page 76).
december 31, 2015.
                                                                  share of results of associates, finance income or
operating results for the fiscal year under review                costs, and profit for the year

revenue and gross profit                                          share of results of associates for the consolidated
                                                                  fiscal year under review was 3.9 billion yen, and the
consolidated revenue for the fiscal year under review             net difference between finance income and finance
(the reporting period from april 1, 2015 to december              costs came to 5.1 billion yen in costs. as a result, profit
31, 2015 for the japan business and the reporting                 before tax came to 106.0 billion yen.
period from january 1, 2015 to december 31, 2015 for                 of the profit for the year, derived by deducting
the international business) reached 706.4 billion yen,            income tax expense from profit before tax, profit
and gross profit totaled 669.4 billion yen (see page 76).         attributable to owners of the parent reached 72.6
   of the gross profit, 255.7 billion yen (up 6.7%                billion yen (see page 76).
compared to the previous consolidated fiscal year)
was generated from the japan business. the amount                 factors affecting operating results
exceeded the previous consolidated fiscal year, largely
due to the contribution of sponsorship sales, including           consolidated revenue is derived primarily from
the 15th iaaf world championships in beijing, the                 advertising services in the four traditional mass
44th tokyo motor show 2015 and the tokyo 2020                     media format s and other advertising services, mainly
olympic and paralympic games.                                     interactive media and out-of-home, or ooh, media
   gross profit from the international business was               (billboard, transit and other), as well as related creative
414.0 billion yen (up 20.6.% compared to the previous             services. commissions from media companies on the
consolidated fiscal year). the organic gross profit               sale of media time and/or space represent the largest
growth rate in the international business continuously            contribution to revenue, with the key revenue source
expanded and increased by 9.4% compared to the                    being commissions for advertising time and/or space
previous consolidated fiscal year. all regions recorded           through the four traditional mass media formats.
higher growth than in the previous consolidated fiscal               the main factors affecting revenue from advertising
year, with emea up 12.2%, the americas up 4.9%, and               in these traditional mass media formats are described
apac up 11.4%.                                                    below:

selling, general and administrative expenses, other                    •	overall advertising expenditures, which fluctuate
income, other expenses and operating profit                              with changing industry conditions such as general
                                                                         economic conditions, technological innovations,
consolidated selling, general and administrative                         deregulation and heightened competition;
(sg&a) expenses for the consolidated fiscal year under                   the group’s competitive position vis-à-vis other
                                                                       •	
review came to 566.4 billion yen.                                        advertising companies;
  other income was 13.0 billion yen, and other                         •	rates charged by media companies for advertising
expenses came to 8.7 billion yen.                                        time and/or space; and
major factors behind the decreases from the previous                   •	changing advertiser needs for advertising across
consolidated fiscal year in other income and other                       different media.
expenses are related to the sale of property, plant and
equipment, intangible assets and investment property                   with increasing popularity in recent years, the



dentsu integrated report 2016                               079

                                                            contents



                                  financial report




internet is firmly in second place, behind television, as         or interest in, the associated content, and the level of
the medium garnering the most contact time in homes               demand for these rights, especially by advertisers and
across japan. as the media environment evolves, the               broadcasters.
needs of advertisers become increasingly sophisticated.              in addition, the group earns revenue from solutions
advertisers are particularly interested in effective and          services, including customer relationship management
efficient media planning that integrates the internet,            (crm), e-marketing and system configuration. revenue
mobile phone and other interactive media with the                 from these services is not only affected by factors that
traditional mass media formats. increasingly, they seek           impact advertising services but also investment trends
verification of advertising effectiveness. to accurately          pertaining to system development.
address these client needs, the dentsu group strives                 as the factors that influence revenue, trends in
to provide high value-added cross-media campaigns.                revenue may differ among the countries in which
   recent trends indicate heightened appreciation                 the group operates, based on such factors as the
for integrated services that cover a broad spectrum               business climate in each country, developments in
of media domains as well as tools that verify cost                specific industries, the competitive position of the
efficiency and advertising effectiveness. the group               group vis-à-vis other advertising companies, as well as
believes this will result in an increase in the number            market practices regarding remuneration for services
of transactions between advertisers and full-service              and shifts in demand among clients for advertising in
advertising companies.                                            different media. exchange rate fluctuations between
   the group frequently provides promotional services             the yen, the reporting currency for the company’s
and other advertising services in combination with                consolidated results, and the currencies of other
advertising in the four traditional mass media. for               countries in which the group operates also have an
example, in promotional services, clients typically               effect on revenue.
combine advertising campaigns in traditional mass
media with point-of-purchase, or pop, displays,                   current status of management strategies and outlook
promotional events and other approaches to encourage
consumers to buy the client company’s products or                 (1) basic management policies
subscribe to its services. demand for traditional mass            with the completion of the acquisition of aegis group
media advertising may fluctuate independently of                  plc (current dentsu aegis network ltd.) in march 2013,
demand for combined services, but the factors that                the dentsu group has evolved into a truly global
influence one type of advertising will impact the other           network. taking this opportunity, dentsu formulated
types as well.                                                    the medium-term management plan “dentsu 2017
   the group also secures revenue from services                   and beyond,” implemented in the fiscal year ended
related to entertainment and sports marketing.                    march 31, 2014.
   these services include the production, marketing                  in recent years, various advancements in technology
and establishment of marketing tie-ins for, and the               have been made, and as the behavior of consumers
selling or brokering of, sponsorship, broadcasting                changes, it has become difficult for many companies to
and other rights to such content as movies, sports                achieve satisfactory results from marketing activities in
events, music and other forms of entertainment. a                 the absence of coordination between initiatives.
breakdown of revenue from such services shows net                    under these circumstances, the group strives to
proceeds or commissions on the purchase and sale of               evolve into the world’s leading global network to
content-related rights, returns on rights or interests in         contribute to raising corporate value for every type of
content owned as well as consideration for services.              client.
revenue may vary depending on such factors as the
location and timing of the entertainment and sports               (2) targeted management indicators
events, the terms under which the group companies                 targets for the fiscal year ending december 31, 2017
acquire the rights, the level of consumer demand for,             were set as follows:



                                                            080                                   dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                     contents



                                                  financial report




  •	gross profit compound annual growth rate                                              2) evolving and expanding in the digital domain
     (cagr): 3%–5%;                                                                        gross profit in the japanese digital domain on a 2015
  •	ratio of gross profit generated from markets                                          calendar year basis increased 22.2% year on year,
     outside of japan: 55% or higher;                                                      continuing to achieve double-digit growth.
  •	ratio of gross profit generated from digital                                             outside of japan, the group implemented m&as in
     businesses: 35% or higher; and                                                        various digital domain sectors in the fiscal year under
  •	underlying operating margin: 20% or higher                                            review as well. of the m&as conducted over the course
  note: u
         nderlying operating margin is the underlying operating profit divided by
        gross profit.
                                                                                           of the year, almost half of the total projects were in the
                                                                                           digital domain. due to growth via m&as and internal
   furthermore, from the previous fiscal year, the group                                   growth, the gross profit of the international business
has applied the international financial reporting                                          operation in the digital domain increased 24.8%
standards (hereinafter, “ifrs”) instead of the japanese                                    compared to the previous consolidated fiscal year.
gaap. in line with this change, operating margin is                                           as a result, the digital domain ratio across the entire
now calculated utilizing “underlying operating profit”                                     group reached 34% on a 2015 calendar year basis,
instead of “operating profit before amortization of                                        making progress toward the goal of 35% or higher for
goodwill and other intangible assets.” there has been                                      the fiscal year ending december 31, 2017.
no change to target figures.                                                                  under the accelerated digital shift of client marketing
                                                                                           activities, the needs for the digital domain are further
(3) tasks to be addressed by the group and its                                            diverse and advanced in the advertising industry. such
     management strategy                                                                   needs include the followings:
specific challenges and efforts to achieve the goals                                          •	programmatic buying system in the media buying
stated in the medium-term management plan are as                                                 domain,
follows.                                                                                      •	digital solution including creative materials and
1) diversifying the portfolio on a global basis                                                  contents, and
the gross profit organic growth rate in the group’s                                           •	data analysis which contributes to business
international business operations for the fiscal year                                            decision making and consumer engagement
under review was 9.4%, achieving a rate higher than                                              strategy
those of its competitors in consecutive years. as a                                           as a result, the role played by the advertisement
result, the gross profit international ratio reached 54%                                   agency is further expanding. given the circumstances,
on a 2015 calendar year basis.                                                             the group will continue to utilize aggressive m&as and
   the group believes the reasons for such robust                                          work to improve its capabilities and quality of service
growth is that, each group company provides one-
stop solutions to meet client needs by cooperating                                         3) re-engineering business processes and improving
and coordinating, leveraging their unique strengths,                                           profitability
and creating expanded business from existing clients,                                      due to the continued cost control such as suppression
in addition to solid acquisition of new accounts through                                   of the cost increase associated with the revenue
the group’s unique “one p&l” business model for its                                        growth in both japan and international business
international business operations, and that the business                                   operations, the consolidated underlying operating
in the digital network domain is steadily growing.                                         margin on a 2015 calendar year basis improved 1.4 ppt
   moving forward, the group will work to globally                                         as compared to the previous consolidated fiscal year
expand its strengths in the digital domain as well as                                      to 21.1% (see page 76).
in the areas of sports marketing and content creation,                                         while aiming for growth in the top line in both its
while making use of m&as to establish and expand a                                         japan and international businesses, the group will
globally competitive global network.                                                       continue to improve operational efficiency and cost
                                                                                           controls to increase profitability across the entire group,
                                                                                           toward achieving the goal of “underlying operating



dentsu integrated report 2016                                                        081

                                                           contents



                                 financial report




margin of 20% or higher,” as set forth as one of the             growing momentum among our stakeholders to seek
objectives of the medium-term management plan.                   esg (environmental, social, governance), in other
                                                                 words, commitment to csr activities in the fiscal year
    urther reinforcing the business platform in the
4) f                                                             under review.
   core japanese market                                             in light of this situation, the group formulated the
the group’s greatest strength is its strong business             “dentsu group medium-term csr strategy 2020” in
platform in japan, and this has not changed. in its              december 2015.
business in this key market for the fiscal year under               the plan has set targets to be achieved by 2020
review, despite concerns over a pullback in demand               highlighting the four key domains: environmental
after the 2014 fifa world cup brazil™ and stagnant               conservation, community, supply chain, and responsible
personal consumption, the performance of the major               marketing communications.
subsidiaries in promotion or digital domain has                     in addition, as a leading member of the japan
remained strong, yielding positive growth.                       network of the united nations global compact, which
   in japan, where consumer behavior is drastically              is the international csr initiative, the company will
changing, it is becoming difficult to achieve sufficient         continuously strive to identify and solve global social
results unless the individual measures in the marketing          issues through our cross-industry network.
activities are organically linked.                                  moving forward, we plan to continue our efforts to
   in light of these environment changes, the entire             improve corporate value by enhancing the desirable
group continues to work on strengthening the                     csr activities as the leading global group in the
capability for digital solutions including the marketing         communication domain.
intelligence domain and enhancing the system.                       for details on individual activities, please refer to the
   in addition, the group further strengthens its                dentsu sustainability report (http://www.dentsu.com/
competitiveness in the mass media business by                    csr/index.html).
accumulating the collaboration with players in the media
content domain and by making efforts to establish                analysis of capital resources and cash liquidity
new revenue models and enhancing the value of the
diverse media. furthermore, the company will work to             assets, liabilities and equity
increase its problem-solving abilities and capability to
create profits in a greater number of domains, in its            as of december 31, 2015, total assets decreased by
efforts to evolve into a partner who can support the             93,459 million yen, liabilities decreased by 85,139
success of its clients from a variety of angles.                 million yen, and total equity decreased by 8,320 million
   additionally, the company is providing support for            yen compared to the previous consolidated fiscal year
creating marketing plans and sponsorship sales as the            respectively, as affected by the repayment of bonds
exclusive marketing agency for the tokyo 2020 olympic            and borrowings and the acquisition of treasury stock.
and paralympic games. concerning sponsorship sales,
six gold sponsors (15 sponsors in total) were finalized          cash flows
during the fiscal year under review, and progress has
been steady. the company will continue to fulfill its            as of december 31, 2015, cash and cash equivalents
role as the exclusive marketing agency.                          (hereinafter “cash”) amounted to 263,322 million yen
   the above is the overview of the medium-term                  down from the 365,379 million yen posted at the end
management plan.                                                 of the previous consolidated fiscal year. as net cash
   as the issues to be addressed, we are also striving           provided by operating activities exceeded net cash
to enhance our global csr activities in addition to the          used in investing activities and financing activities,
efforts outlined above.                                          cash at the end of the consolidated fiscal year under
   as described in the corporate governance code                 review decreased 102,057 million yen from the end of
(implementation began in june 2015), there was                   the previous consolidated fiscal year



                                                           082                                    dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                             contents



                                  financial report




  net cash provided by operating activities amounted               funding to borrow funds acquired for this purpose
to 69,554 million yen (112,388 million was posted at               from other domestic consolidated subsidiaries with
the previous consolidated fiscal year), primarily due to           excess cash. also, a global cms has been introduced
recording of profit before tax.                                    at dentsu aegis network, through which overseas cash
  net cash used in investing activities amounted to                is consolidated in london.
61,203 million yen (25,510 million yen was posted at                  the japanese rating agency rating and investment
the previous consolidated fiscal year), primarily due to           information, inc., or r&i, has assigned a rating of aa-
purchase of investments in subsidiaries.                           to dentsu’s long-term debt and a rating of a-1+ to its
  net cash used in financing activities amounted                   short-term debt.
to 95,666 million yen (income of 8,391 million yen
was posted at the previous consolidated fiscal year),              management issues and future policies
primarily due to expenditures in repayment of long-
term borrowings, purchase of treasury stocks, and                  see current status of management strategies and
payment of dividends.                                              outlook on page 80.

capital requirements                                               operating and other risks

the group’s principal working capital requirements are             the operating results, share price and financial position
payments for the purchase of advertising time and/or               of dentsu and, by extension, the dentsu group are
space and the production of advertisements, as well as             subject to various risks, as described below.
personnel costs and other sg&a expenses.                             any forward-looking statements in the following
  in recent years, capital requirements have increased             discussion are based on the judgment of management
for investments in the digital and global domains in the           as of the date of filing the securities report.
course of exploring different advertising opportunities.
                                                                   overall industry-related risk
financial policy
                                                                   risk related to fluctuations in the economic and
the group’s primary source of funds is cash generated              business environments
from internal reserves, short-term borrowings and                  the financial results of the dentsu group and other
the issuance of commercial paper. the group has                    companies in the advertising industry are highly
generally had positive working capital (current assets             susceptible to changes in the market and business
minus current liabilities) on a consolidated basis. in the         conditions because many advertisers adjust their
previous fiscal year and the fiscal year under review,             spending in response to changes in these conditions.
the group’s working capital recorded positive amounts                 management has taken steps, such as diversifying
of 170.6 billion yen and 129.4 billion yen, respectively.          the types of services the group provides and
   to ensure short-term liquidity, dentsu established              geographic regions in which the group operates,
a bank credit line of up to 50.0 billion yen via a                 to reduce exposure to the impact of fluctuations in
syndication arrangement. also, dentsu aegis network                economic and business environments. nonetheless,
established a bank credit line of 500 million pounds               the group’s financial results may be influenced by
(approximately 89.0 billion yen) as a contingency                  macroeconomic trends in japan and fluctuations in
fund. in addition, to improve cash efficiency within               the operating environment of key domestic industry
the group, a cash management system (cms) was                      sectors that have significant advertising expenditures.
introduced so that dentsu could borrow cash from                   in addition, changes in business conditions outside
domestic consolidated subsidiaries. a groupwide                    japan, such as an economic slowdown or exchange
finance system is now in place that enables nearly                 rate fluctuations, could also adversely affect business
all domestic consolidated subsidiaries that require                conditions in japan, and therefore adversely affect the



dentsu integrated report 2016                                083

                                                             contents



                                  financial report




results of operations of the group’s business in japan.            to explore and exploit further business opportunities.
   in april 2017, japan’s consumption tax rate is                     nevertheless, if the group cannot cope appropriately
scheduled to be raised from 8% to 10%. such a tax                  with changes in the media structure associated with
increase may adversely affect the japanese economy                 the rapid pace of technological innovation, its results
in general, and in particular, curb consumer spending,             of operations could be adversely affected.
which could in turn reduce the demand for the group’s
services and negatively impact its results of operations.          risk related to shortfalls in financial targets and other
   the great east japan earthquake that occurred in                goals
march 2011 adversely affected the japanese economy                 pursuant to the dentsu group’s new medium-term
due to supply chain disruptions, electricity shortages             management plan—dentsu 2017 and beyond—the
and other factors. while economic and business                     group has set financial targets and other goals to be
conditions in japan have improved since then, there is             achieved by the fiscal year ending december 31, 2017.
no assurance that conditions may not deteriorate again             for example, the group intends to continue to increase
in the future, including as a result of future earthquakes         the proportion of its revenue from business outside
or other natural disasters.                                        of japan by enhancing and extending its new global
   with the acquisition of the major british advertising           network formed with the acquisition of aegis. however,
agency aegis in march 2013, the proportion of the                  the group’s ability to achieve its financial targets
group’s gross profit accounted for by its operations               and other goals is based on a number of underlying
outside of japan increased significantly, to 54%, in               assumptions, including assumptions regarding factors
fiscal 2015. with this development, downturns in the               beyond its control such as growth in advertising
economies and business environments of the principal               expenditures globally, foreign currency exchange rates
markets in which the group operates outside of japan               and interest rates, as well as general economic growth
could have an increased adverse impact on its overall              rates of countries in which the group operates. if any
results of operations.                                             of these assumptions proves to be inaccurate, the
                                                                   group may be unable to achieve its financial targets
risk related to technological innovation and structural            and other goals. in addition, there is no assurance that
changes in the media                                               management will be able to successfully implement
developments in technology and structural changes                  the medium-term management plan.
in the media are having an increasing impact on
the dentsu group’s business. according to 2015                     risk related to common business practices
advertising expenditures in japan (issued by dentsu),              in japan, dentsu group companies are liable for
internet advertising expenditures have continued to                payment to media companies regardless of whether
grow since the first survey in 1996 and have reached a             they receive payment from their clients. this practice
level surpassing the amounts allocated to newspaper,               exposes the group to the risk of payment default
magazine or radio advertising, which are three of the              by advertiser clients, including as the result of the
four traditional mass media (newspapers, magazines,                bankruptcy of clients. an increase in payment defaults
radio and television).                                             by clients could adversely affect the group’s results
   management believes that the development of                     of operations. the nature of the advertising business
internet-based and other new media advertising                     is such that sudden changes in advertising proposals
should contribute to expanding the overall advertising             and actual advertisements are frequent. the group
market by generating synergies between advertising                 strives to preclude problems related to work for clients
in the four traditional mass media and such new                    through measures such as encouraging the conclusion
advertising. the dentsu group also believes that it has            of basic written contracts with them, but unforeseen
already secured a leading position in japan not only in            events or disputes with clients may arise.
advertising in the four traditional mass media but also               overseas, especially in europe and the americas,
in internet advertising, and the group continues to seek           relationships between advertisers and advertising



                                                             084                                   dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                            contents



                                  financial report




agencies are usually exclusive within a particular                dentsu group competes with these companies in the
industry in japan, however, these relationships are               development and expansion of new businesses. if the
typically less exclusive. accordingly, the dentsu                 group is unable to respond effectively to client needs
group, like other advertising agencies in japan,                  in such business domains from either a service or a cost
handles multiple clients in a single industry. if the             perspective, or if the entrance of new companies into
practice in japan were to change in favor of exclusive            these new markets suddenly causes rapid changes in
relationships, and if the group’s efforts to respond to           customary advertising business practices, the group’s
such a change were ineffective, its results of operations         results of operations could be adversely affected.
could be adversely affected.
                                                                  risk related to advertisers and media companies
competition-related risk
                                                                  the dentsu group has formed business ties with major
risk related to competition among advertising                     advertisers in japan and has maintained stable, long-
agencies                                                          term relationships with a large majority of its current
the dentsu group faces increasing competition from                clients.
advertising agencies in japan and overseas.                           the group has also established strong relationships
   in japan, mergers among domestic advertising                   with japan’s mass media companies, which enhances
companies or other reorganizations of the domestic                its ability to coordinate operations and sales activities
industry, or further entry into the market by large               between advertisers and media companies, and
global advertising companies, could alter the structure           thereby facilitate transactions.
of japan’s advertising industry and increase the                      however, if the group is unable to provide services
competitive pressure that the group faces. going                  that match the needs of existing or new advertisers
forward, the group’s results of operations could be               and media companies, the group may be adversely
adversely affected by increased competition to secure             affected, including by the termination of business
clients if the group is unable to respond effectively to          relationships, the reduction of accounts or unfavorable
changes in the structure of the industry or standard              changes in the terms of business.
business practices prompted by such developments.                     in recent years, advertisers have sought to consolidate
   outside of japan, the group competes with large                their media service activities with one advertising
global advertising companies, some of which have                  agency to boost advertising efficiency and reduce
greater geographic scope and greater financial,                   costs. for this and other reasons, the group and other
human and other resources than the group, as well as              advertising companies have experienced a decrease
with smaller agencies that specialize in one or more              in the profitability of mass media advertising services.
countries or local markets. to the extent that the group          if this trend persists, the group’s results of operations
is not able to remain competitive and obtain and retain           could be further adversely affected.
key clients, its results of operations may be adversely
affected.                                                         risk related to efforts to reinforce domestic service
                                                                  capabilities
risk related to competition from new market entries
and from adjacent industries                                      risk related to the development of information
the rapid expansion and diversification of the                    technology processes and databases
advertising field is giving rise to competition from an           the dentsu group is currently involved in research and
increasing number of companies in adjacent industries,            development on information technology processes
including general trading and consulting companies.               and databases that verify the effectiveness of clients’
fields related to internet advertising and social                 advertising activities and marketing budgets. through
networking services are also seeing a sharp increase              these efforts, management seeks to bring latent
in the number of new market entrants, and the                     demand to the surface and expand its share of the



dentsu integrated report 2016                               085

                                                            contents



                                  financial report




japanese advertising market. however, it is unclear if            taking advantage of this opportunity, the dentsu
or when the results of these efforts will be marketable           group has established several specialized companies
and put to practical use. moreover, even if the group             in promotion-related fields such as point-of-purchase
is able to develop marketable services from its r&d               marketing, flyer production, direct business and client
activities, these services may not produce the results            access in order to expand its future promotion business.
the group expects, especially if the needs of clients             however, if demand for these services falls short of
have changed significantly or technological challenges            expectations, or if the group is unable to maintain
preclude widespread use of the services.                          competitiveness with other solutions providers, the
                                                                  group may not realize the return on investments that
risk related to investments in media and internet                 it expects.
advertising businesses
to reinforce the dentsu group’s position in the media             risk related to content business
markets and otherwise expand its business, the group
has made investments in the four traditional mass                 the dentsu group actively invests in the acquisition
media, ooh media (out-of-home media such as transit               of rights to, and in the production of, films, television
and billboard) and satellite media (broadcast and                 programs, sports events and music, and seeks to
communication satellites), as well as in related research         generate profits from the production, distribution,
and business development programs. however, if                    sale and licensing of films and other content as well as
demand for media advertising becomes stagnant                     from the sale of sponsorships, broadcasting rights and
or competition in the media advertising market                    content-related advertising. however, these projects
intensifies, profits and other business results may not           may extend over several fiscal years and require
be sufficient to generate the return the group expects            significant acquisition costs and financial commitments.
from these investments in r&d and commercialization.              in addition, media that provide content have been
   in the internet advertising domain, as advertising             diversifying in recent years. moreover, the success
methods diversify and demands from clients expand, the            of the group’s content business depends primarily
dentsu group has been actively establishing alliances             upon acceptance by the general public, which can be
with leading, specialized agencies as well as investing           difficult to predict. therefore, if these investments in
in other specialized companies and technologies.                  content or events do not develop as planned or do
these moves support the group’s efforts to further                not realize the benefits expected, the group’s results
promote and propose cross-media campaigns that are                of operations may be adversely affected.
aimed at creating effective synergies among multiple
media and creative outlets that are effective in light of         risk related to global businesses
target consumers’ behavior patterns. the group is also
focusing on performance-based advertising, a method               risks related to international business development
of ad delivery which utilizes platforms that employ               with the acquisition of aegis, the dentsu group’s
ad technologies processing vast amounts of data                   global operations have expanded to over 140 countries
to provide automatic or instantaneous optimization                and regions. the group’s global operations are subject
of advertising. however, if the group’s efforts fail to           to a number of risks, including but not limited to the
adequately address the rapid progress in technologies             following:
and services associated with the internet advertising
domain, the group may be unable to realize its initially          •	difficulties in monitoring and coordinating operations
expected return on these investments.                                in such a large number and wide range of jurisdictions;
                                                                  •	heightened exposure to any downturn affecting the
risk related to expansion of the promotion business                  global economy;
the importance of promotional activities has been                 •	risks related to foreign laws, regulations and policies,
rising for advertisers, and the market is expanding.                 including capital and exchange controls;



                                                            086                                    dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                              contents



                                   financial report




•	differences in, or conflicts among, the taxation                 risk related to maintaining and developing human
   regimes in the different jurisdictions in which the              resources
   group operates;
•	changes with respect to taxation, including impositions          the growth potential and competitiveness of the
   or increases of withholding and other taxes on                   dentsu group are highly dependent upon attracting,
   remittances and other payments by the group’s                    retaining and developing excellent human resources.
   overseas subsidiaries;                                           therefore, group companies strive to attract the
•	fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;                 necessary talent by hiring a stable number of new
•	varying standards and practices in the legal, regulatory         graduates and by recruiting mid-career professionals
   and business cultures in which the group operates,               with expertise and experience that will make an
   including potential inability to enforce contracts               immediate contribution. at the same time, the group
   or intellectual property rights and restrictions on              endeavors to promote personnel development by
   employment matters;                                              offering training opportunities according to the
•	trade restrictions and changes in tariff;                        position and ability of each individual. however, these
•	risks related to political instability and uncertain             efforts could be sidetracked for all sorts of reasons,
   business environments;                                           making it difficult to attract exceptional people or
•	changes in the political or economic relationship                keep them within the group. if this were to occur, the
   between japan and the other countries and regions                group’s growth potential and its competitive edge
   in which the group operates;                                     could be adversely affected.
•	acts of terrorism, war, epidemics and other sources of              moreover, the group is continuing to address issues
   social disruption; and                                           inherent in the management of a greater number of
•	difficulties associated with managing local personnel            employees in diverse cultural and geographic areas,
   and preventing misconduct by local third-party                   particularly with the integration of a large number
   alliance partners.                                               of new overseas employees in connection with the
                                                                    acquisition of aegis. there can be no assurance that the
   any one or more of these or other factors could                  group will be able to attract or retain key employees
increase the group’s costs, reduce its revenues or                  and successfully manage them. the group’s inability
disrupt its operations, with possible material adverse              to do so could disrupt its business and have a material
effects on its business, financial condition and results            adverse effect on its financial condition, results of
of operations.                                                      operations and competitive position.

risk related to impairment losses on goodwill and                   risk related to reliance on information technology
other intangible assets                                             systems
the dentsu group carries significant amounts of
goodwill and other intangible assets on its balance                 the dentsu group relies on information technology
sheet, particularly as a result of the acquisition of               systems and infrastructure to process transactions,
aegis. under japanese gaap, the group is required to                summarize results and manage its business, including
examine such assets for impairment whenever events                  maintaining client marketing and advertising
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying              information. the group’s information technology
amount of an asset may not be recoverable. the                      systems are potentially vulnerable to system failures
recognition of such impairment charges may adversely                and network disruptions, malicious intrusion and
affect the group’s business, financial condition and                random attack. likewise, data security incidents and
results of operations.                                              breaches by employees and others with or without
                                                                    permitted access to its systems may pose a risk that
                                                                    sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons
                                                                    or to the public. additionally, the group utilizes third



dentsu integrated report 2016                                 087

                                                             contents



                                  financial report




parties to store, transfer or process data. while the              advertising activities of advertisers or the format or
group has taken prudent measures to protect its data               content of advertisements are strengthened, if new
and information technology systems, there can be no                laws or regulations are introduced, or if existing laws
assurance that its efforts will prevent system failures or         and regulations are reinterpreted.
network disruptions or breaches in its systems, or in                 members of the group handle personal and other
systems of third parties the group uses, which could               advertiser information in the course of doing business.
adversely affect its results of operations.                        the dentsu group’s information security system is
                                                                   certified to international standards, and the utmost
risk related to legal or regulatory changes                        care is given to safeguarding information entrusted
                                                                   to the group. however, in the unlikely event of an
advertising companies in japan, including those                    information leak or other such incident occurring, the
under the dentsu group umbrella, are subject to                    group’s credibility could be severely compromised.
a number of laws and regulations, including the act                this could adversely affect its financial results.
against delay in payment of subcontract proceeds,
etc. to subcontractors and the act on the protection of            risk of litigation
personal information. at the current time, management
does not anticipate that these laws and regulations                the dentsu group could become involved in litigation
will have any material impact on the group’s business.             brought against it directly or indirectly in association
however, the financial results of the dentsu group                 with the execution of business by members of the
and other advertising companies could be adversely                 group, including claims by clients, organizations,
affected if existing laws or regulations governing the             consumers or owners of intellectual property.




                                                             088                                  dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                             contents



                                             financial report




consolidated financial statements
consolidated statement of financial position
dentsu inc. and consolidated subsidiaries
december 31, 2015
                                                                                                                      (millions of yen)     (millions of u.s. dollars)

                                                                                                 fy2014                      fy2015                        fy2015
                                                                  notes
assets                                                                             (as of march 31, 2015)   (as of december 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)

current assets:
  cash and cash equivalents                                         7                         ¥365,379                    ¥263,322                           $2,183
  trade and other receivables                                     8, 32                      1,224,190                    1,263,317                          10,474
  inventories                                                       9                            25,982                       18,724                             155
  other financial assets                                        10, 19, 32                       22,732                       20,945                             174
  other current assets                                             11                            43,575                       46,201                             383
     subtotal                                                                                1,681,861                    1,612,510                          13,370
  non-current assets classified as held for sale                   12                                  –                       5,513                              46
     total current assets                                                                    1,681,861                    1,618,024                          13,415


non-current assets:
  property, plant and equipment                                    13                          199,037                      196,782                           1,632
  goodwill                                                         14                          656,565                      656,862                           5,446
  intangible assets                                                14                          274,745                      256,991                           2,131
  investment property                                              16                            42,160                       41,642                             345
  investments accounted for using the equity method               6, 17                          53,042                       50,281                             417
  other financial assets                                         10, 32                        214,393                      218,083                           1,808
  other non-current assets                                         22                            22,134                       11,515                              95
  deferred tax assets                                              18                            15,594                       15,893                             132
     total non-current assets                                                                1,477,673                    1,448,051                          12,006
total assets                                                        6                       ¥3,159,534                  ¥3,066,075                         $25,421




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                089

                                                                         contents



                                             financial report




consolidated statement of financial position
dentsu inc. and consolidated subsidiaries
december 31, 2015
                                                                                                                  (millions of yen)     (millions of u.s. dollars)

                                                                                             fy2014                      fy2015                        fy2015
                                                                notes
liabilities and equity                                                         (as of march 31, 2015)   (as of december 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)

liabilities:
current liabilities:
  trade and other payables                                      19, 32                  ¥1,231,220                  ¥1,207,347                         $10,010
  bonds and borrowings                                          20, 32                       73,653                       66,805                             554
  other financial liabilities                                   20, 32                       54,082                       44,988                             373
  income tax payables                                                                        21,520                       11,177                              93
  provisions                                                     21                             208                        1,819                              15
  other current liabilities                                                                130,571                      156,156                           1,295
     subtotal                                                                            1,511,256                    1,488,294                          12,340
  liabilities directly associated with non-current
                                                                 12                                –                          307                               3
     assets classified as held for sale
     total current liabilities                                                           1,511,256                    1,488,602                          12,342


non-current liabilities:
  bonds and borrowings                                          20, 32                     335,965                      286,977                           2,379
  other financial liabilities                                   20, 32                       69,765                       72,735                             603
  liability for retirement benefits                              22                          43,674                       30,557                             253
  provisions                                                     21                           4,627                        3,096                              26
  other non-current liabilities                                                               8,849                       11,350                              94
  deferred tax liabilities                                       18                          74,331                       70,011                             580
     total non-current liabilities                                                         537,214                      474,729                           3,936
     total liabilities                                                                   2,048,470                    1,963,331                          16,278


equity:
  share capital                                                  23                          74,609                       74,609                             619
  share premium account                                          23                          99,906                       99,751                             827
  treasury shares                                                23                            (131)                     (20,155)                           (167)
  other components of equity                                                               292,652                      261,039                           2,164
  retained earnings                                              23                        613,327                      652,972                           5,414
     total equity attributable to owners of the parent           32                      1,080,364                    1,068,216                           8,857
     non-controlling interests                                                               30,699                       34,526                             286
     total equity                                                                        1,111,063                    1,102,743                           9,143
total liabilities and equity                                                            ¥3,159,534                  ¥3,066,075                         $25,421




                                                                         090                                                 dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                        contents



                                                financial report




consolidated statement of income
dentsu inc. and consolidated subsidiaries
nine months ended december 31, 2015
                                                                                                                               (millions of yen)     (millions of u.s. dollars)

                                                                                                      fy2014                          fy2015                        fy2015
                                                                         notes           (year ended march 31,            (nine months ended            (nine months ended
                                                                                                         2015)             december 31, 2015)            december 31, 2015)

  (turnover (note 1))                                                      6                       ¥4,642,390                    ¥4,513,955                         $37,426
  revenue                                                                  6                         728,626                         706,469                           5,857
     cost                                                           13, 14, 22, 26                    51,701                           36,979                             307
  gross profit                                                             6                         676,925                         669,489                           5,551
     selling, general and administrative expenses                  13, 14, 22, 25, 26                572,084                         566,487                           4,697
     other income                                                         27                          39,102                           13,030                             108
     other expenses                                                   13, 14, 28                      11,638                            8,766                              73
  operating profit                                                         6                         132,305                         107,265                              889
     share of results of associates                                       17                            7,178                           3,911                              32
  profit before interest and tax                                                                     139,483                         111,177                              922
     finance income                                                       29                            7,067                           4,926                              41
     finance costs                                                    22, 26, 29                      12,255                           10,059                              83
  profit before tax                                                                                  134,295                         106,043                              879
     income tax expense                                                   18                          49,649                           28,339                             235
  profit for the year                                                                                ¥84,645                         ¥77,704                            $644


  profit attributable to:
     owners of the parent                                                                            ¥79,846                         ¥72,653                            $602
     non-controlling interests                                                                        ¥4,799                           ¥5,051                             $42


  earnings per share                                                                                                                      (yen)                  (u.s. dollars)

     basic earnings per share                                             31                         ¥276.89                         ¥254.05                           $2.11
     diluted earnings per share                                           31                         ¥276.84                         ¥254.03                           $2.11



reconciliation from operating profit to underlying operating profit                                                            (millions of yen)     (millions of u.s. dollars)

                                                                                                      fy2014                          fy2015                    fy2015
                                                                         notes           (year ended march 31,    (nine months ended decem- (nine months ended decem-
                                                                                                         2015)                   ber 31, 2015)             ber 31, 2015)

operating profit                                                                                    ¥132,305                       ¥107,265                             $889
  amortization of intangible assets incurred in acquisi-
                                                                                                      19,784                           22,798                             189
   tions
  other adjusting items (selling, general and administra-
                                                                                                        4,972                           2,454                              20
   tive expenses)
  other adjusting items (other income)                                                                (33,275)                         (4,565)                            (38)
  other adjusting items (other expenses)                                                                8,151                           5,376                              45
underlying operating profit (note 2)                                       6                        ¥131,937                       ¥133,328                           $1,105
(note 1)	turnover represents the total amount billed and billable to clients by the group, net of discounts, vat and other sales-related taxes.
          disclosure of turnover information is not required under ifrs; however, it is voluntarily disclosed in the consolidated statement of income since management has
          concluded that the information is useful for users of the financial statements.
(note 2) for the definition of underlying operating profit, refer to “3. significant accounting policies (20) underlying operating profit.”




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                        091

                                                                            contents



                                                financial report




consolidated statement of comprehensive income
dentsu inc. and consolidated subsidiaries
nine months ended december 31, 2015
                                                                                                              (millions of yen)   (millions of u.s. dollars)

                                                                                               fy2014                 fy2015                     fy2015
                                                                   notes          (year ended march 31,   (nine months ended         (nine months ended
                                                                                                  2015)    december 31, 2015)         december 31, 2015)

profit for the year                                                                           ¥84,645               ¥77,704                          $644


other comprehensive income
  items that will not be reclassified to profit
  or loss:
     net change in financial assets measured at fair value
                                                                   30, 32                      66,704                  3,354                            28
      through other comprehensive income
     remeasurements of defined benefit plans                       22, 30                       7,542                  2,849                            24
     share of other comprehensive income of investments
                                                                   17, 30                         152                     411                             3
       accounted for using the equity method
  items that may be reclassified to profit or
  loss:
     exchange differences on translation of foreign
                                                                    30                         46,061                (35,439)                         (294)
       operations
     effective portion of the change in the fair value of cash
                                                                    30                          1,036                 (1,950)                          (16)
        flow hedges
     share of other comprehensive income of investments
                                                                   17, 30                         221                    (589)                           (5)
       accounted for using the equity method
     other comprehensive income, net of tax                                                   121,717                (31,363)                         (260)
comprehensive income for the year                                                           ¥206,363                ¥46,340                          $384


comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
  owners of the parent                                                                      ¥200,471                ¥42,077                          $349
  non-controlling interests                                                                    ¥5,891                 ¥4,263                           $35




                                                                            092                                          dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                            contents



                                                 financial report




consolidated statement of changes in equity
dentsu inc. and consolidated subsidiaries
nine months ended december 31, 2015
                                                                                                                                                                             (millions of yen)

                                                                                                                                         total equity attributable to owners of the parent
                                                                                                                                                              other components of equity
                                                                                                                                             exchange effective portion net change in financial
                                                                                                      share                                differences    of the change    assets measured at
                                                                                                                treasury
                                                                    notes   share capital          premium               share options   on translation in the fair value    fair value through
                                                                                                                  shares
                                                                                                    account                                  of foreign     of cash flow other comprehensive
                                                                                                                                           operations            hedges                  income
as of april 1, 2014                                                           ¥74,609             ¥99,906        ¥(104)            ¥–      ¥160,772             ¥11,127             ¥15,267
  profit for the year
  other comprehensive income                                                                                                                  45,129               1,004             66,847
     comprehensive income for the year                                                 –                 –           –              –         45,129               1,004             66,847
  repurchase of treasury shares                                                                                    (27)
  disposal of treasury shares                                                                            0           0
  issue of share options                                                                                                           48
  dividends                                                          24
  transactions with non-controlling interests in subsidiaries
     that do not result in a loss of control
  transfer from other components of equity to retained earnings                                                                                                                        (732)
  transactions with owners—total                                                    –                   0           (27)          48              –                   –                (732)
as of march 31, 2015                                                          ¥74,609             ¥99,906        ¥(131)          ¥48       ¥205,902             ¥12,131             ¥81,382
  profit for the year
  other comprehensive income                                                                                                                (34,769)             (1,909)               3,293
     comprehensive income for the year                                                 –                –            –              –       (34,769)             (1,909)               3,293
  repurchase of treasury shares                                                                      (154)     (20,024)
  dividends                                                          24
  transactions with non-controlling interests in subsidiaries
     that do not result in a loss of control
  transfer from other components of equity to retained earnings                                                                                                                       (1,037)
  other
     transactions with owners—total                                                 –                (154)     (20,024)            –             –                   –              (1,037)
as of december 31, 2015                                                       ¥74,609             ¥99,751     ¥(20,155)          ¥48      ¥171,132             ¥10,222             ¥83,639




                                                                                                                                                                  (millions of u.s. dollars)

                                                                                                                                         total equity attributable to owners of the parent
                                                                                                                                                              other components of equity
                                                                                                                                             exchange effective portion net change in financial
                                                                                                      share                                differences    of the change    assets measured at
                                                                                                                treasury
                                                                    notes   share capital          premium               share options   on translation in the fair value    fair value through
                                                                                                                  shares
                                                                                                    account                                  of foreign     of cash flow other comprehensive
                                                                                                                                           operations            hedges                  income
as of march 31, 2015                                                              $619               $828          $(1)            $0         $1,707                $101                $675
  profit for the year
  other comprehensive income                                                                                                                     (288)                (16)                 27
     comprehensive income for the year                                                 –                 –           –              –            (288)                (16)                 27
  repurchase of treasury shares                                                                         (1)       (166)
  dividends                                                          24
  transactions with non-controlling interests in subsidiaries
     that do not result in a loss of control
  transfer from other components of equity to retained earnings                                                                                                                             (9)
  other
     transactions with owners—total                                                  –                 (1)       (166)              –             –                    –                 (9)
as of december 31, 2015                                                           $619               $827       $(167)             $0        $1,419                  $85               $693




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                               093

                                                                              contents



                                                 financial report




                                                                                                                                                                 (millions of yen)

                                                                                           total equity attributable to owners of the parent
                                                                              other components of equity

                                                                            remeasurements
                                                                                                                 retained                      non-controlling
                                                                    notes        of defined           total                            total                          total equity
                                                                                                                 earnings                            interests
                                                                               benefit plans

as of april 1, 2014                                                                ¥(14,456)   ¥172,711        ¥553,889         ¥901,012            ¥24,709           ¥925,722
  profit for the year                                                                                 –          79,846           79,846              4,799             84,645
  other comprehensive income                                                          7,643     120,625                          120,625              1,092            121,717
     comprehensive income for the year                                                7,643     120,625           79,846         200,471              5,891            206,363
  repurchase of treasury shares                                                                       –                               (27)                                  (27)
  disposal of treasury shares                                                                         –                                 0                                     0
  issue of share options                                                                             48                                48                                    48
  dividends                                                          24                               –          (10,669)        (10,669)             (2,498)          (13,167)
  transactions with non-controlling interests in subsidiaries
                                                                                                         –       (10,471)         (10,471)             2,596              (7,875)
     that do not result in a loss of control
  transfer from other components of equity to retained earnings                                     (732)           732                 –                                     –
  transactions with owners—total                                                          –         (684)       (20,408)          (21,119)               97             (21,021)
as of march 31, 2015                                                                ¥(6,813)   ¥292,652        ¥613,327       ¥1,080,364            ¥30,699         ¥1,111,063
  profit for the year                                                                                  –         72,653           72,653              5,051             77,704
  other comprehensive income                                                         2,809      (30,576)                         (30,576)              (787)           (31,363)
     comprehensive income for the year                                               2,809      (30,576)         72,653           42,077              4,263             46,340
  repurchase of treasury shares                                                                        –                         (20,179)                              (20,179)
  dividends                                                          24                                –        (20,072)         (20,072)             (3,164)          (23,236)
  transactions with non-controlling interests in subsidiaries
                                                                                                         –      (13,972)          (13,972)             2,743            (11,229)
     that do not result in a loss of control
  transfer from other components of equity to retained earnings                               (1,037)   1,037          –                                                    –
  other                                                                                            –                   –                               (15)               (15)
     transactions with owners—total                                                      –    (1,037) (33,008)   (54,224)                             (436)           (54,660)
as of december 31, 2015                                                            ¥(4,003) ¥261,039 ¥652,972 ¥1,068,216                           ¥34,526         ¥1,102,743




                                                                                                                                                      (millions of u.s. dollars)

                                                                                           total equity attributable to owners of the parent
                                                                              other components of equity

                                                                            remeasurements
                                                                                                                 retained                      non-controlling
                                                                    notes        of defined           total                            total                          total equity
                                                                                                                 earnings                            interests
                                                                               benefit plans

as of march 31, 2015                                                                   $(56)      $2,426          $5,085           $8,957               $255             $9,212
  profit for the year                                                                                  –             602              602                 42                644
  other comprehensive income                                                             23         (254)                            (254)                (7)              (260)
     comprehensive income for the year                                                   23         (254)            602              349                 35                384
  repurchase of treasury shares                                                                        –                             (167)                                 (167)
  dividends                                                          24                                –            (166)            (166)               (26)              (193)
  transactions with non-controlling interests in subsidiaries
                                                                                                         –          (116)             (116)               23                 (93)
     that do not result in a loss of control
  transfer from other components of equity to retained earnings                                      (9)                9               –                                     –
  other                                                                                               –                                 –                (0)                 (0)
     transactions with owners—total                                                      –           (9)           (274)             (450)               (4)               (453)
as of december 31, 2015                                                               $(33)      $2,164          $5,414            $8,857              $286              $9,143




                                                                             094                                                        dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                           contents



                                              financial report




consolidated statement of cash flows
dentsu inc. and consolidated subsidiaries
nine months ended december 31, 2015
                                                                                                               (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)

                                                                                      fy2014                           fy2015                          fy2015
                                                                 notes   (year ended march 31,     (nine months ended decem-       (nine months ended decem-
                                                                                         2015)                    ber 31, 2015)                   ber 31, 2015)
cash flows from operating activities
 profit before tax                                                                  ¥134,295                        ¥106,043                               $879
 adjustments for:
    depreciation and amortization                                                       40,390                         41,453                                344
    impairment loss                                                                       1,824                         2,489                                 21
    interest and dividend income                                                         (4,275)                       (4,136)                               (34)
    interest expense                                                                      7,112                         6,840                                 57
    share of results of associates                                                       (7,178)                       (3,911)                               (32)
    increase (decrease) in liability for retirement benefits                               (215)                        1,670                                 14
    other — net                                                                        (38,339)                         1,838                                 15
       cash flows from operating activities before adjusting
                                                                                      133,614                        152,288                              1,263
         changes in working capital and others
 changes in working capital:
    (increase) decrease in trade and other receivables                                (114,985)                      (73,141)                               (606)
    (increase) decrease in inventories                                                  (12,201)                        7,367                                  61
    (increase) decrease in other current assets                                          10,114                        (4,179)                                (35)
    increase (decrease) in trade and other payables                                    101,835                        28,483                                 236
    increase (decrease) in other current liabilities                                     41,163                         4,578                                  38
       change in working capital                                                         25,927                      (36,891)                               (306)
       subtotal                                                                        159,542                       115,396                                 957
 interest received                                                                        2,046                         2,044                                  17
 dividends received                                                                       6,895                         5,722                                  47
 interest paid                                                                           (6,564)                       (6,781)                                (56)
 income taxes paid                                                                     (49,531)                      (46,828)                               (388)
 net cash flows from operating activities                                              112,388                        69,554                                 577

cash flows from investing activities
 payment for purchase of property, plant and equipment,
                                                                  6                    (21,669)                       (19,652)                              (163)
   intangible assets and investment property
 proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment,
                                                                                        36,074                             869                                  7
   intangible assets and investment property
 net cash (paid) received on acquisition of subsidiaries                               (35,528)                       (41,996)                              (348)
 net cash (paid) received on disposal of subsidiaries                                         –                             25                                  0
 payments for purchases of securities                                                    (4,536)                        (6,755)                               (56)
 proceeds from sales of securities                                                        2,235                          9,469                                 79
 other — net                                                                             (2,184)                        (3,163)                               (26)
 net cash flows from investing activities                                              (25,610)                       (61,203)                              (507)

cash flows from financing activities
 net increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings                                        (4,055)                      (12,949)                              (107)
 proceeds from long-term borrowings                                                     52,134                             91                                   1
 repayment of long-term borrowings                                                     (16,375)                       (29,246)                              (242)
 repayments of bonds                                                                     (8,008)                      (11,936)                                (99)
 payment for acquisition of interest in a subsidiary from non-
                                                                                          (580)                        (2,735)                               (23)
   controlling interests
 proceeds from sales of interest in a subsidiary to non-
                                                                                            59                          2,952                                 24
   controlling interests
 payments for purchase of treasury shares                                                   (27)                      (20,024)                              (166)
 proceeds from disposal of treasury shares                                                    0                              –                                  –
 dividends paid                                                   24                   (10,669)                       (20,072)                              (166)
 dividends paid to non-controlling interests                                             (2,527)                        (2,917)                               (24)
 other — net                                                                             (1,558)                         1,171                                 10
 net cash flows from financing activities                                                 8,391                       (95,666)                              (793)

effect of exchange rate changes on cash and
                                                                                        16,856                        (14,741)                              (122)
cash equivalents
net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                                 112,025                        (102,057)                              (846)
cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period                  7                  253,354                         365,379                              3,029
cash and cash equivalents at end of period                        7                 ¥365,379                        ¥263,322                             $2,183



dentsu integrated report 2016                                             095

                                                                               contents



                                              financial report




notes to consolidated financial statements
dentsu inc. and consolidated subsidiaries



1. reporting entity                                                                  (5) change in fiscal year end
dentsu inc. (hereinafter referred to as the “company”) is a joint stock              effective from the current fiscal year, the company and its subsidiaries
corporation under the companies act of japan located in japan.                       with fiscal year ends other than december 31 changed their fiscal year
  the addresses of the company’s registered corporate headquarters and               ends to december 31 in order to enhance and improve the efficiency
principal business offices are available on the company’s website (http://           of the account closing and management system on a group-wide basis
www.dentsu.co.jp/).                                                                  by unifying the fiscal year end with the group’s overseas consolidated
  the details of businesses and principal business activities of the                 subsidiaries.
company and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to as the “group”) are              as a result of this change of fiscal year end from march 31 to december
stated in “6. segment information”.                                                  31, the current fiscal year was the nine-month period from april 1, 2015 to
  the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december                  december 31, 2015.
31, 2015 were approved by tadashi ishii, representative director and                   the fiscal year end date of dentsu aegis network ltd. and subsidiaries
president & ceo, and shoichi nakamoto, director and senior executive                 under control (hereinafter, collectively “dentsu aegis network”), which
vice president & cfo, on march 30, 2016.                                             operate the group’s international advertising business, continues to be
                                                                                     december 31 as before, hence the group consolidates financial results of
2. basis of preparation                                                              dentsu aegis network for the twelve-month period from january 1, 2015
(1) compliance with the international financial reporting standards                  to december 31, 2015 into the consolidated financial results for the nine-
(hereinafter referred to as “ifrs”)                                                  month period ended december 31, 2015.
the company’s consolidated financial statements meet all requirements                  for pro forma information of the consolidated statement of income
of article 1-2 “specified company” stipulated in the ordinance on                    assuming that the fiscal year of the group had been the twelve-month
terminology, forms and preparation methods of consolidated financial                 period from january 1, 2015 to december 31, 2015, please refer to note
statements (ordinance of the ministry of finance no. 28 of 1976; (the                “37. consolidated statement of income (2015 january–
“ordinance on consolidated financial statements”)) and are prepared in               december)”.
accordance with ifrs under the provisions of article 93 of the ordinance
on consolidated financial statements.                                                3. significant accounting policies
                                                                                     (1) basis of consolidation
(2) basis of measurement                                                             a. subsidiaries
the consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical                 a subsidiary is an entity controlled by the group. an entity is treated as a
cost basis, except for financial instruments and others stated in “3.                subsidiary if the group is deemed, in principle, to have control over that
significant accounting policies.”                                                    entity when it holds a majority of the voting rights of that entity. an entity
                                                                                     is treated as a subsidiary even if the group holds less than a majority of
(3) functional currency and presentation currency                                    the voting rights of the entity, where control is deemed to be achieved
the consolidated financial statements are presented in japanese yen,                 when the group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its
which is the functional currency of the company.                                     involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns
  for the convenience of readers outside japan, the accompanying                     through its power over the entity.
consolidated financial statements are also presented in united states                  consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the group obtains control
dollars by translating japanese yen amounts at the exchange rate                     over the subsidiary and ceases when the group loses control of the
of ¥120.61 to u.s.$1, the approximate rate of exchange at the end                    subsidiary. in cases where the accounting policies adopted by a subsidiary
of december 31, 2015. such translations should not be construed as                   are different from those adopted by the group, adjustments are made
representations that the japanese yen amounts could be converted into                to the subsidiary’s financial statements, as necessary, to conform with the
united states dollars at the above or any other rate.                                accounting policies adopted by the group.
  amounts of less than one million yen have been rounded down to                       a change in the ownership interest in a subsidiary without a loss of
the nearest million yen and less than one million u.s. dollars have been             control is accounted for as an equity transaction, and any difference
rounded to the nearest million u.s. dollars in the presentation of the               between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted
accompanying consolidated financial statements. as a result, the totals in           and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognized
yen and u.s. dollars do not necessarily agree with the sum of the individual         directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the company.
amounts.                                                                               when the group loses control of a subsidiary, any resulting gain or loss
                                                                                     is recognized in profit or loss.
(4) early application of new standards
the group has early applied ifrs 9 “financial instruments” (revised in               b. associates and joint ventures
october 2010) effective the date of transition to ifrs (april 1, 2013).              an associate is an entity over which the group has significant influence in
                                                                                     respect to the financial and operating policies but does not have control.




                                                                               096                                               dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                    contents



                                                financial report




when the group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting rights, the                          any excess of the consideration of acquisition over the fair value
entity is, in principle, treated as an associate.                                         of identifiable assets and liabilities is recognized as goodwill. if the
  when the group holds less than 20% of the voting rights of the entity                   consideration of acquisition is lower than the fair value of the identifiable
but is determined to have significant influence over the entity, such as                  assets and liabilities, the difference is immediately recognized in profit.
through delegation of officers, the entity is treated as an associate.                      if the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by
  a joint venture is an entity in which two or more parties, including the                the end of the fiscal year in which the combination occurs, provisional
group, have contractually agreed to sharing of control of an arrangement                  amounts of incomplete items are measured based on best estimates.
and have rights to the net assets of the joint venture, and in which                      provisional amounts are adjusted retrospectively to reflect new information
unanimous consent of the controlling parties is required to make decisions                obtained during the measurement period, within one year from the date
on relevant business activities.                                                          of acquisition, that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognized
  the group’s investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted                  at that date.
for using the equity method. the investments are measured as the carrying                   the change in fair value of contingent consideration after the acquisition
amount (including goodwill recognized upon acquisition) determined                        is reflected as an adjustment to the consideration transferred when the
using the equity method less accumulated impairment losses.                               change occurs during the above measurement period, otherwise the
  the consolidated financial statements include the group’s share of                      change is recognized in profit or loss.
changes in profit or loss and other comprehensive income of an associate                    the group elects to measure non-controlling interests at either fair
and joint venture from the date of acquisition of significant influence or                value or based on the proportionate share in the recognized identifiable
joint control until the date such influence or control is lost. in cases where            net asset amounts for each business combination transaction.
the accounting policies adopted by an associate or joint venture are                        acquisition-related costs incurred to effect a business combination are
different from those adopted by the group, adjustments are made to the                    recognized as expenses when incurred, with the exception of costs related
associate or joint venture’s financial statements, as necessary, to conform               to the issuance of debt instruments and equity instruments.
with the accounting policies adopted by the group.
  if application of the equity method ceases as a result of the loss of                   (3) foreign currency translation
significant influence on associates or joint ventures, gain or loss on the sales          a. translation of foreign currency transactions
of shares is recognized in profit or loss, and the valuation difference arising           foreign currency transactions are translated into each functional currency
from remeasurement of the residual shares at fair value is recognized in                  of the group entity using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
profit or loss in the same period the significant influence is lost.                        at each fiscal year end, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
                                                                                          foreign currencies, and non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated
c. transactions eliminated under consolidation                                            in foreign currencies carried at fair value are translated into the functional
all intragroup balances, transactions, and unrealized gains resulting                     currency at the closing rate, and the resulting translation differences are
from intragroup transactions are eliminated on consolidation. unrealized                  recognized in profit or loss.
gains resulting from transactions with associates and joint ventures are                    non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are translated
subtracted from investments, with the company’s share in an investee                      at the exchange rate at the date of transaction.
company as its upper limit.
                                                                                          b. translation of foreign operations
(2) business combinations                                                                 for financial statements of foreign operations such as subsidiaries, assets
business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.                     and liabilities are translated into japanese yen at the closing rate for a
consideration transferred in a business combination is measured as the                    reporting period, and revenue and expenses are translated into japanese
sum of the acquisition-date fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities         yen using the average rate for the reporting period unless there are
assumed and equity instruments issued by the company in exchange for                      significant changes in the exchange rate. resulting translation differences
control over an acquiree and includes contingent consideration when                       are recognized in other comprehensive income, and cumulative
appropriate.                                                                              differences are recognized in other components of equity.
  at the acquisition date, the identifiable assets and liabilities are                      when a foreign operation of the group is disposed of, cumulative
recognized at their fair value, except that:                                              translation differences relating to that foreign operation are transferred
    deferred tax assets or liabilities, and assets or liabilities, which are
(i)                                                                                      to profit or loss.
  related to employee benefit arrangements, are recognized and
  measured in accordance with international accounting standards                          (4) financial instruments
  (hereinafter referred to as “ias”) 12 “income taxes” and ias 19                         a. non-derivative financial assets
  “employee benefits,” respectively.                                                      (i) initial recognition and measurement
(ii) assets or disposal groups that are classified as held-for-sale under ifrs           the group initially recognizes trade and other receivables on the date
   5 “non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations” are                   of occurrence. all other financial assets are initially recognized on the
   measured in accordance with such standard.                                             transaction date when the group became the contracting party for the




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                       097

                                                                                    contents



                                                 financial report




financial asset.                                                                          b. impairment of financial assets measured at amortized cost
  non-derivative financial assets are classified as financial assets measured             the group assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists
at amortized cost if both of the following conditions are met at the time                 at each reporting date. financial assets are determined to be impaired
of initial recognition of financial assets. otherwise, they are classified as             when there is objective evidence that loss events occurred subsequent
financial assets measured at fair value.                                                  to initial recognition of the financial assets and when negative effects on
  ・the asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold                  estimated future cash flows of the financial assets from those events can
        assets in order to collect contractual cash flows.                                be reasonably estimated.
  ・the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified                     objective evidence of impairment for a financial asset measured at
        dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest            amortized cost includes, but is not limited to; default or delinquency by the
        on the principal amount outstanding.                                              borrower, reductions of repayment amounts or extensions of repayment
  financial assets measured at fair value are classified as financial assets              periods, significant financial difficulty of the borrower, and bankruptcy of
in which changes in fair value subsequent to initial recognition are                      the borrower.
recognized in profit or loss (hereinafter referred to as “financial assets                  the existence of objective evidence of impairment is assessed
measured at fair value through profit or loss”) and financial assets in which             individually and collectively for financial assets measured at amortized
changes in fair value subsequent to initial recognition are recognized in                 cost.
other comprehensive income (hereinafter referred to as “financial assets                    impairment losses for a financial asset measured at amortized cost are
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income”).                              measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the
  at the time of initial recognition, equity financial assets not designated              present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the original
as financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive                    effective interest rate of the financial asset, and recognized as losses. if
income and debt financial assets that do not satisfy amortized cost criteria              the amount of impairment losses decreases due to an event occurring
are classified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss.         after the impairment losses were recognized, the previously recognized
  equity financial assets not held-for-sale, in principle, are designated                 impairment losses are reversed by the amount of the decrease through
as financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive                    profit.
income at the time of initial recognition.                                                  the impairment losses are recognized through an allowance for doubtful
  all financial assets are measured at fair value with the addition of                    accounts, and the carrying amount of a receivable is directly reduced by an
transaction costs that are directly attributable to the financial assets,                 offset against the allowance for doubtful accounts when it is considered
except for when they are classified as financial assets measured at fair                  uncollectible.
value through profit or loss.
                                                                                          c. non-derivative financial liabilities
(ii) subsequent measurement                                                               (i) initial recognition and measurement
after initial recognition, financial assets are measured based on the                     the group initially recognizes debt securities on the date of issue. all
classification as follows:                                                                other financial liabilities are initially recognized on the transaction date
(a) financial assets measured at amortized cost                                           when the group becomes the contracting party for the financial liability.
subsequent to initial recognition, financial assets are measured at                         non-derivative financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities
amortized cost using the effective interest rate method.                                  measured at fair value through profit or loss and financial liabilities
(b) financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss                        measured at amortized cost at initial recognition.
subsequent to initial recognition, financial assets are remeasured at fair                  all financial liabilities are measured at fair value at initial recognition.
value at each fiscal year end. changes in fair value and dividends are                    however, financial liabilities measured at amortized cost are measured at
recognized in profit or loss.                                                             cost, net of transaction costs that are directly attributable to the financial
(c) financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive                   liabilities.
income
changes in fair value subsequent to initial recognition are recognized in                 (ii) subsequent measurements
other comprehensive income, and are transferred to retained earnings                      after initial recognition, financial liabilities are measured based on the
if a financial asset is derecognized or the fair value declines significantly.            classification as follows:
dividends derived from these financial assets are recognized in profit or                 (a) financial liabilities measured at amortized cost
loss.                                                                                     subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities measured at
                                                                                          amortized cost are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest
(iii) derecognition                                                                       rate method.
financial assets are derecognized when the contractual rights to receive                  (b) financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss
cash flows expire, or when substantially all risks and rewards of ownership               subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities measured at fair value
are transferred to another entity.                                                        through profit or loss are remeasured at fair value at each fiscal year end
                                                                                          and changes in fair value are recognized in profit or loss.




                                                                                    098                                               dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                 contents



                                               financial report




(iii) derecognition                                                                    (iv) derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges
a financial liability is derecognized when the obligation is fulfilled,                changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognized
discharged, or expired.                                                                in profit or loss.


d. derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting                               e. offsetting of financial instruments
the group utilizes derivative financial instruments, such as foreign                   financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and presented on a net
exchange contracts and interest rate swap contracts, to hedge its foreign              basis if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognized
currency risks and interest rate risks, respectively.                                  amounts, and if there is an intention to settle on a net basis or to realize
  at the inception of the hedge, the group designates and documents                    the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
the relationship to which hedge accounting is adopted, as well as the
objectives and strategies of risk management for undertaking the hedge.                (5) cash and cash equivalents
the documentation includes hedging relationships, the risk management                  cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, demand deposits, and
objective, strategies for undertaking the hedge and an assessment of the               short-term investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of
hedging instrument’s effectiveness.                                                    cash and subject to insignificant risk of change in value and due within
  these hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting             three months from the date of acquisition.
changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis
to determine whether they have actually been highly effective throughout               (6) inventories
the periods for which they were designated.                                            inventories are mainly comprised of broadcasting rights and contents
  derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value. in          related to sports and entertainment. the inventories are measured at the
addition, derivatives are measured at fair value after initial recognition and         lower of cost or net realizable value. the cost of inventories is determined
changes in the fair value are accounted for as follows:                                mainly by the specific identification method.
(i) fair value hedge
changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognized           (7) property, plant and equipment (excluding leased assets)
in profit or loss.                                                                     property, plant and equipment is measured at acquisition cost using
  the change in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the                  the cost model subsequent to initial recognition less accumulated
hedged risk is recorded as part of its carrying amount and recognized in               depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
profit or loss.                                                                          the acquisition cost includes any costs directly attributable to the
                                                                                       acquisition of the asset and dismantlement, removal and restoration costs.
(ii) cash flow hedge                                                                     except for assets such as land that are not depreciated, property, plant
for the effective portion of gains or losses on hedging instruments,                   and equipment are depreciated mainly using the straight-line method
changes in the fair value are recognized in other comprehensive income.                over their estimated useful lives.
the amounts recognized in other comprehensive income are recognized                      the estimated useful lives of major property, plant and equipment items
in profit or loss when the cash flows from the hedged items affect profit              are as follows:
or loss.                                                                                 ・buildings and structures: 2 to 100 years
  for the ineffective portion, changes in the fair value are recognized in               depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at
profit or loss.                                                                        the end of each fiscal year and changes are made as necessary.
  hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument
expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, when the hedge no longer                  (8) goodwill and intangible assets
meets the criteria for hedge accounting, or when the hedging designation               a. goodwill
is revoked.                                                                            goodwill is not amortized and is measured at acquisition cost less
                                                                                       accumulated impairment losses.
(iii) hedge of net investment in foreign operations
translation differences resulting from the hedges of a net investment in a             b. intangible assets (excluding leased assets)
foreign operation are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.                     intangible assets are measured at acquisition cost using the cost model
  gains or losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective                  subsequent to initial recognition less accumulated amortization and
portion of the hedge are recognized in other comprehensive income while                accumulated impairment losses.
those for the ineffective portion are recognized in profit or loss.                      intangible assets acquired separately are measured at acquisition
  upon disposal of the foreign operation, cumulative gains or losses                   cost for initial recognition, and the costs of intangible assets acquired in
recognized in equity as other comprehensive income are reclassified to                 business combinations are recognized at fair value at the acquisition date.
profit or loss.                                                                          the acquisition cost for internally generated intangible assets is the sum
                                                                                       of the expenditures incurred from the date when the intangible asset first
                                                                                       meets all of the capitalization criteria.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                    099

                                                                                 contents



                                              financial report




  except for intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, intangible assets           except for assets that generally do not generate independent cash
are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful               flows from other assets or asset groups, the recoverable amount of an
lives.                                                                                 asset or a cash-generating unit is determined individually by asset at the
  the estimated useful lives of major intangible asset items are as follows:           higher of its fair value less costs of disposal or its value in use.
  ・software: 3 to 5 years                                                               where the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit exceeds
  ・customer relationships: effective period (mainly 18 years)                         its recoverable amount, the asset is written down to its recoverable amount
  amortization methods and useful lives of intangible assets with finite               and impairment losses are recognized.
useful lives are reviewed at the end of each fiscal year and changes are                 an impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in a
made as necessary.                                                                     subsequent period. for assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is
                                                                                       made at fiscal year end to determine whether there is any indication that
(9) leases                                                                             previously recognized impairment losses may no longer exist or have
leases are classified as finance leases whenever substantially all the risks           decreased. if any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the
and rewards incidental to ownership are transferred to the group. all                  asset is estimated. in cases that the recoverable amount exceeds the
other leases are classified as operating leases.                                       carrying amount of the asset, a reversal of impairment losses is recognized.
a. finance leases                                                                      the amount of the reversal of the impairment loss shall not exceed the
leased assets and lease obligations are recognized at the lower of the fair            carrying amount that would have been determined (net of depreciation or
value of the leased property or the present value of the minimum lease                 amortization) if no impairment loss had been recognized.
payments.                                                                                because goodwill that forms part of the carrying amount of an
  leased assets are depreciated using the straight-line method over the                investment in entities accounted for using the equity method is not
shorter of their estimated useful lives or lease terms. total minimum lease            separately recognized, it is not tested for impairment separately. if there is
payments are apportioned between the finance costs and the reduction of                any indication that an investment in entities accounted for using the equity
the outstanding liability, and the finance costs allocated to each reporting           method may be impaired, the entire carrying amount of the investment is
period are calculated using the effective interest rate method.                        tested as a single asset.


b. operating leases                                                                    (12) non-current assets classified as held for sale
  lease payments are recognized as expenses using the straight-line                    a non-current asset or asset group whose carrying amount is expected to
method over the lease terms.                                                           be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through
                                                                                       continuing use is classified as held-for-sale if the non-current asset or
(10) investment property                                                               asset group is available for immediate sale in its present condition, group
investment property is property held to earn rentals or for capital                    management is committed to a sales plan and its sale is expected to be
appreciation or both.                                                                  completed within one year.
  investment property is measured at acquisition cost using the cost                     the group measures a non-current asset or asset group classified as
model subsequent to initial recognition less accumulated depreciation                  held-for-sale at the lower of its carrying amount and fair value less costs
and accumulated impairment losses.                                                     to sell.
  except for assets that are not depreciated, such as land, investment
property is depreciated mainly using the straight-line method over its                 (13) post-employment benefits
estimated useful life. estimated useful lives are between 6 and 50 years.              the group has set up defined benefit plans and defined contribution
  the depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values of investment             plans as employee retirement benefit plans.
property are reviewed at the end of each fiscal year and changes are made                for defined benefit plans, the group recognizes the present value
as necessary.                                                                          of defined benefit obligations less the fair value of any plan assets as
                                                                                       liabilities or assets.
(11) impairment of non-financial assets                                                  for defined benefit plans, the group determines the present value
except for inventories and deferred tax assets, the group assesses at the              of defined benefit obligations, related current service cost and past
end of the fiscal year whether there is any indication that a non-financial            service cost using the projected unit credit method. the discount rate is
asset may be impaired. if such an indication exists, an impairment test is             determined based on high quality corporate bond yield rates at fiscal year
performed based on the recoverable amount of the asset.                                end for the discount period which is set for the projected period until the
  goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not                  expected date of benefit payments in each fiscal year.
amortized. impairment tests for such assets are performed once a year,                   service costs and interest costs of defined benefit plans are recognized
irrespective of whether there is any indication that they may be impaired,             in profit or loss, and net interest is determined using the discount rate
or in cases where there is an indication of impairment. refer to note “14.             described above. remeasurements of defined benefit plans are recognized
goodwill and intangible assets” for details of impairment testing                      in other comprehensive income in the period when they are incurred. past
of goodwill.                                                                           service costs are recognized in profit or loss in the period incurred.




                                                                                 100                                                 dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                   contents



                                               financial report




  the cost for retirement benefits for defined contribution plans is                     substantively enacted, by the end of the fiscal year.
recognized in profit or loss in the period in which the employees render                   deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for temporary
the related services.                                                                    differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the
                                                                                         consolidated statement of financial position and their tax basis amount.
(14) provisions                                                                          deferred tax assets or liabilities are not recognized for differences arising
provisions are recognized when the group has a present obligation (legal                 from the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in transactions that are
or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the obligation         not business combinations and affect neither accounting profit or loss
will be required to be settled and a reliable estimate can be made for the               nor taxable profit or loss. deferred tax liabilities are also not recognized
amount of the obligation.                                                                for taxable temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of
  where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are                goodwill.
measured based on the present value using a discount rate reflecting the                   deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences
risks specific to the liability.                                                         associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
                                                                                         however, deferred tax liabilities are not recognized for taxable temporary
(15) revenue                                                                             differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and
revenue consists primarily of commissions received for the placement                     joint ventures to the extent the group controls the timing of the reversal of
of advertising into different media and consideration received from                      the temporary difference and it is probable the temporary difference will
advertisers and others for providing services, such as assistance in the                 not reverse in the foreseeable future. deferred tax assets are recognized
production of advertising, including creative, and various content-related               for deductible temporary differences associated with investments in
services.                                                                                subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures only to the extent that it is
  revenue from the production of advertising and other advertising                       probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable
related services is recorded based on the consideration paid as                          future and there will be sufficient taxable profits against which the
compensation for such service to the group by advertisers and others less                temporary differences can be utilized.
costs incurred. in some cases, revenue is also recorded based on a fixed                   deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are
fee or another compensation.                                                             expected to apply to the fiscal year when the asset is realized or the liability
  revenue from commissions received from advertisers for the placement                   is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively
of advertising is generally recognized when the media is placed. other                   enacted by the fiscal year end.
revenue is generally recorded when the service is complete, an estimate                    deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that
of the amount of compensation can be reasonably determined and it is                     taxable profits will be available against which carryforwards of unused tax
probable that the future economic benefits will flow to the group.                       losses, tax credit carryforwards and deductible temporary differences can
  revenue and cost arising from transactions relating to services other                  be utilized. deferred tax assets are reassessed at the end of the fiscal year
than advertising services are presented on a gross basis.                                and reduced by the amount of any tax benefits that are not expected to
  turnover represents the total amount billed and billable to clients by the             be realized.
group, net of discounts, vat and other sales-related taxes. disclosure of                  deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if the group has a legally
turnover information is not required under ifrs.                                         enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities,
                                                                                         and income taxes are levied by the same taxation authority on the same
(16) finance income and finance costs                                                    taxable entity.
finance income mainly consists of interest and dividend income. interest
income is recognized as accrued using the effective interest rate method                 (18) equity
while dividend income is recognized when the shareholder’s right to                      a. share capital and share premium account
receive payment is established.                                                          equity instruments issued by the company are recorded in share capital
  finance costs mainly consist of interest expenses on borrowings and                    and share premium account. transaction costs directly attributable to the
bonds. interest expenses are recognized as incurred using the effective                  issuance of an equity instrument are deducted from equity.
interest rate method.
                                                                                         b. treasury shares
(17) income taxes                                                                        treasury shares are recognized at cost and deducted from equity. no gain
income taxes consist of current income taxes and deferred income taxes.                  or loss is recognized on the purchase, sale or cancellation of treasury shares.
income taxes are recognized in profit or loss, except for taxes arising from               when treasury shares are sold, any difference between their carrying
items that are recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in                   amount and consideration received is recognized in the share premium
equity and taxes arising from business combinations.                                     account.
  current income taxes are measured at the amount which is expected
to be paid to or refunded from the taxation authorities. the tax rates                   (19) earnings per share
and tax laws used to calculate the amount are those that are enacted or                  basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit for the year




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                      101

                                                                                contents



                                              financial report




attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company by the                    affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts
weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year,               of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. these estimates and
adjusted by the number of treasury shares. diluted earnings per share are             assumptions are based on the best judgment of management in light of
calculated by adjusting the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares.            historical experience and various factors deemed to be reasonable as of
                                                                                      the fiscal year end date. however, given their nature, actual results may
(20) underlying operating profit                                                      differ from those estimates and assumptions.
the underlying operating profit is calculated by eliminating from operating             the estimate and underlying assumptions are continuously reviewed.
profit certain adjusting items such as amortization of intangible assets              the effects of a change in estimate are recognized in the period of the
incurred in acquisition, impairment losses, gain or loss on sale of property,         change and future periods.
plant and equipment, intangible assets and investment property and costs                information relating to judgements carried out in the process of the
incurred due to acquisition and is used by management for the purpose of              application of accounting policies that have a material impact on the
measuring constant business performance.                                              consolidated financial statements, is mainly as follows:
  the underlying operating profit is not defined under ifrs; however, it is             ・scope of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (“3. significant
voluntarily disclosed in the consolidated statement of income and note                     accounting policies (1) basis of consolidation”)
“6. segment information” since management has concluded that                            ・
                                                                                         revenue recognition (“3. significant accounting policies
the information is useful for users of the financial statements.                           (15) revenue”)
                                                                                        estimates and assumptions that may have a material effect on the
(21) reclassfication                                                                  amounts recognized in the consolidated financial statements are as follows:
certain reclassifications have been made to the consolidated financial                  ・impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible
statements for the year ended march 31, 2015 to conform to the                             assets and investment properties (“13. property, plant and
presentation of the consolidated financial statements for the nine months                  equipment,” “14. goodwill and intangible assets,” and
ended december 31, 2015.                                                                   “16. investment property”)
                                                                                        ・valuation of financial instruments (“32. financial instruments”)
4. significant accounting judgements, estimates and                                    ・valuation of defined benefit obligations (“22. post-employment
  assumptions                                                                              benefits”)
the preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires                       ・provisions (“21. provisions”)
management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that                           ・recoverability of deferred tax assets (“18. income taxes”)




                                                                                102                                              dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                             contents



                                            financial report




5. new accounting standards not yet adopted by the group
by the date of approval of the consolidated financial statements, new accounting standards, amended standards and new interpretations that have been
issued, but have not been subject to early adoption by the group are as follows:
  the implications from adoption of these standards and interpretations are assessed by the group at the time of preparing the consolidated financial
statements.

                                                 mandatory adoption
standards       name of standards             (from the year beginning)   to be adopted by the group    description of new standards and amendments

                presentation of financial                                          fiscal year ending   clarifying the application of materiality in deter-
ias 1                                               january 1, 2016
                statements                                                         december 2016        mining what information to disclose

                property, plant and                                                fiscal year ending   clarifying acceptable methods of depreciation
ias 16                                              january 1, 2016
                equipment                                                          december 2016        and amortization

                                                                                   fiscal year ending   clarifying acceptable methods of depreciation
ias 38          intangible assets                   january 1, 2016
                                                                                   december 2016        and amortization

                                                                                   fiscal year ending   clarifying accounting treatment for acquisitions
ifrs 11         joint arrangements                  january 1, 2016
                                                                                   december 2016        of interests in joint operations

                revenue from contracts                                             fiscal year ending   amendments for accounting treatment for
ifrs 15                                             january 1, 2018
                with customers                                                     december 2018        recognizing revenue

                                                                                                        amendments for financial instrument classifi-
                                                                                   fiscal year ending
ifrs 9          financial instruments               january 1, 2018                                     cation and measurement, impairment require-
                                                                                   december 2018
                                                                                                        ments and hedge accounting

                                                                                   fiscal year ending   amendments for accounting treatment for lease
ifrs 16         leases                              january 1, 2019
                                                                                   december 2019        arrangements




dentsu integrated report 2016                                               103

                                                                              contents



                                            financial report




6. segment information
(1) description of reportable segments
the group’s reportable segments are those for which discrete financial information is available and the board of directors conducts regular reviews to make
decisions about resources to be allocated and assess their performance.
  the group is mainly engaged in providing communications-related services focusing on advertising, and manages its japan business and international
business separately.
  accordingly, the group has two reportable segments: japan business segment and international business segment.


(2) information on reportable segments
accounting methods for reportable segments are identical to those described in “3. significant accounting policies.”
  segment profit is based on operating profit net of “amortization of intangible assets incurred in acquisitions” and “other adjusting items.”
  intersegment revenues are based on the prevailing market price.

fy2014: year ended march 31, 2015
                                                                                                                                                 (millions of yen)
                                                                                          international
                                                                     japan business                               total     reconciliations        consolidated
                                                                                              business

turnover (note1)                                                       ¥1,798,523         ¥2,869,699        ¥4,668,222           ¥(25,832)          ¥4,642,390
revenue (note 2)                                                           397,637           356,821           754,459            (25,832)              728,626
gross profit (note 3)                                                      333,995           343,232           677,228                (303)             676,925
segment profit (underlying operating profit) (note 3)                       79,735             52,618          132,353                (416)             131,937
(adjusting items)
amortization of intangible assets incurred in acquisitions                         –                 –               –                   –              (19,784)
other adjusting items (selling, general and administrative
                                                                                   –                 –               –                   –                (4,972)
   expenses) (note 5)
other adjusting items (other income) (note 5)                                      –                 –               –                   –               33,275
other adjusting items (other expenses) (note 5)                                    –                 –               –                   –                (8,151)
operating profit                                                                   –                 –               –                   –              132,305
share of results of associates                                                     –                 –               –                   –                 7,178
finance income                                                                     –                 –               –                   –                 7,067
finance costs                                                                      –                 –               –                   –               12,255
profit before tax                                                                  –                 –               –                   –              134,295
(other income and expense items)
  depreciation and amortization (excluding amortization of
                                                                            12,855              7,750           20,606                   –               20,606
   intangible assets incurred in acquisitions)
segment assets (note 4)                                                   1,273,922        1,995,777         3,269,699           (110,164)            3,159,534
(other asset items)
  investments accounted for using the equity method                         43,705              9,337           53,042                   –               53,042
  capital expenditures                                                      ¥8,845           ¥12,824           ¥21,669                   –              ¥21,669




                                                                             104                                            dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                        contents



                                            financial report




fy2015: nine months ended december 31, 2015
                                                                                                                                   (millions of yen)
                                                                                   international
                                                               japan business                            total   reconciliations     consolidated
                                                                                       business

turnover (note1)                                                ¥1,369,732         ¥3,156,328      ¥4,526,061        ¥(12,105)       ¥4,513,955
revenue (note 2)                                                    302,237           416,337        718,574           (12,105)          706,469
gross profit (note 3)                                               255,746           414,066        669,812              (323)          669,489
segment profit (underlying operating profit) (note 3)                63,293            70,156        133,450              (121)          133,328
(adjusting items)
amortization of intangible assets incurred in acquisitions                  –                 –             –                 –           (22,798)
other adjusting items (selling, general and administrative
                                                                            –                 –             –                 –            (2,454)
   expenses) (note 5)
other adjusting items (other income) (note 5)                               –                 –             –                 –             4,565
other adjusting items (other expenses) (note 5)                             –                 –             –                 –            (5,376)
operating profit                                                            –                 –             –                 –          107,265
share of results of associates                                              –                 –             –                 –             3,911
finance income                                                              –                 –             –                 –             4,926
finance costs                                                               –                 –             –                 –            10,059
profit before tax                                                           –                 –             –                 –          106,043
(other income and expense items)
  depreciation and amortization (excluding amortization of
                                                                      8,951              9,702        18,654                  –            18,654
   intangible assets incurred in acquisitions)
segment assets (note 4)                                           1,212,941         1,957,884       3,170,825        (104,749)         3,066,075
(other asset items)
  investments accounted for using the equity method                  46,819              3,461        50,281                  –            50,281
  capital expenditures                                               ¥4,136           ¥15,516        ¥19,652                  –          ¥19,652




dentsu integrated report 2016                                         105

                                                                                        contents



                                                  financial report




fy2015: nine months ended december 31, 2015
                                                                                                                                                           (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                      international
                                                                              japan business                                      total      reconciliations          consolidated
                                                                                                          business
turnover (note1)                                                                    $11,357              $26,170             $37,526                    $(100)            $37,426
revenue (note 2)                                                                      2,506                 3,452               5,958                    (100)               5,857
gross profit (note 3)                                                                 2,120                 3,433               5,554                      (3)               5,551
segment profit (underlying operating profit) (note 3)                                    525                  582               1,106                      (1)               1,105
(adjusting items)
amortization of intangible assets incurred in acquisitions                                   –                   –                   –                      –                  (189)
other adjusting items (selling, general and administrative
                                                                                             –                   –                   –                      –                   (20)
   expenses) (note 5)
other adjusting items (other income) (note 5)                                                –                   –                   –                      –                    38
other adjusting items (other expenses) (note 5)                                              –                   –                   –                      –                   (45)
operating profit                                                                             –                   –                   –                      –                   889
share of results of associates                                                               –                   –                   –                      –                    32
finance income                                                                               –                   –                   –                      –                    41
finance costs                                                                                –                   –                   –                      –                    83
profit before tax                                                                            –                   –                   –                      –                   879
(other income and expense items)
   depreciation and amortization (excluding amortization of
                                                                                          74                   80                 155                       –                   155
    intangible assets incurred in acquisitions)
segment assets (note 4)                                                              10,057               16,233               26,290                    (868)              25,421
(other asset items)
   investments accounted for using the equity method                                     388                   29                 417                       –                   417
   capital expenditures                                                                  $34                $129                 $163                       –                 $163
(note 1) turnover represents the total amount billed and billable to clients by the group, net of discounts, vat and other sales-related taxes. disclosure of turnover informa-
          tion is not required under ifrs; however, it is voluntarily disclosed in the consolidated statement of income since management has concluded that the information
          is useful for users of the financial statements.
(note 2) reconciliations for revenue are due to eliminations of intersegment transactions (same amount as for turnover).
(note 3) reconciliations for gross profit and segment profit (underlying operating profit) are due to eliminations of intersegment transactions.
(note 4) reconciliations for segment assets are due to eliminations of intersegment transactions.
(note 5) the breakdown of “other adjusting items (selling, general and administrative expenses),” “other adjusting items (other income)” and “other adjusting items (other
          expenses)” is as follows:


                                                                                                                                    (millions of yen)      (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                          fy2014                           fy2015                         fy2015
                                                                                             (year ended march 31,             (nine months ended         (nine months ended de-
                                                                                                             2015)              december 31, 2015)               cember 31, 2015)
other adjusting items (selling, general and administrative expenses)
   early retirement benefits                                                                               ¥3,947                             ¥813                               $7
   costs associated with merger and acquisitions                                                              967                            1,610                               13
   other                                                                                                        56                               29                                0
total                                                                                                      ¥4,972                           ¥2,454                              $20
other adjusting items (other income)
   gain on sale of property, plant and equipment, intangible
                                                                                                         ¥32,194                              ¥700                               $6
    assets and investment property
   gain on sale of subsidiaries and associates shares                                                         306                               954                                8
   other                                                                                                      775                            2,910                               24
total                                                                                                    ¥33,275                            ¥4,565                              $38
other adjusting items (other expenses)
   loss on sale of property, plant and equipment, intangible
                                                                                                           ¥4,261                               ¥50                              $0
     assets and investment property
   impairment losses (note)                                                                                 1,824                            2,489                               21
   other                                                                                                    2,065                            2,836                               24
total                                                                                                      ¥8,151                           ¥5,376                              $45
(note) impairment losses by segment are ¥1,588 million (japan business) and ¥235 million (international business) for the year ended march 31, 2015 and ¥46 million ($0 million)
        (japan business) and ¥2,442 million ($20 million) (international business) for the nine months ended december 31, 2015.




                                                                                       106                                                    dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                        contents



                                                financial report




(3) information about products and services
with regard to advertising services, the group provides various advertising through media including newspapers, magazines, radio, television, internet, sales
promotion, movies, outdoor events, public transportation, and others. the group also provides clients with event marketing, creative services, marketing,
public relations, contents services, and other services.
  with regard to information services, the group provides services such as information services and information-related products.
  the group also provides other services such as office rentals, building maintenance and fiduciary services of computation.


revenues from external customers for each product and service are as follows:

                                                                                                                              (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                                      fy2015                          fy2015
                                                                                                      fy2014
                                                                                                                  (nine months ended decem-       (nine months ended decem-
                                                                                   (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                                 ber 31, 2015)                   ber 31, 2015)

advertising services                                                                                ¥658,657                       ¥655,161                             $5,432

information services                                                                                   63,498                         47,099                                391

other services                                                                                          6,470                          4,208                                 35

total                                                                                               ¥728,626                       ¥706,469                             $5,857



(4) geographical information for non-current assets (property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets and investment property)
                                                                                                                              (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                       fy2014                        fy2015                          fy2015
                                                                                         (as of march 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)       (as of december 31, 2015)

japan                                                                                               ¥230,612                       ¥226,159                             $1,875

overseas (mainly the united kingdom)                                                                 941,895                        926,119                              7,679

total                                                                                              ¥1,172,508                    ¥1,152,278                             $9,554
non-current assets are allocated according to the location of each group entity.

(5) information about major customers
information about major customers is omitted as the group does not have a single external customer that contributes 10% or more to group revenue in the
consolidated statement of income.


7. cash and cash equivalents
the breakdown of cash and cash equivalents as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 is as follows:
                                                                                                                              (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                       fy2014                        fy2015                          fy2015
                                                                                         (as of march 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)       (as of december 31, 2015)

cash and time deposits due within three months                                                      ¥365,379                       ¥263,322                             $2,183


cash and cash equivalents are classified as financial assets measured at amortised cost.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                         107

                                                                             contents



                                             financial report




8. trade and other receivables
the breakdown of trade and other receivables as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 is as follows:

                                                                                                                   (millions of yen)     (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                            fy2014                        fy2015                        fy2015
                                                                              (as of march 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)

notes and accounts receivable—trade                                                     ¥1,196,242                   ¥1,229,430                         $10,193

other                                                                                       29,210                         37,887                             314

allowance for doubtful accounts                                                              (1,262)                       (4,000)                            (33)

total                                                                                   ¥1,224,190                   ¥1,263,317                         $10,474


trade and other receivables are presented net of allowance for doubtful accounts in the consolidated statement of financial position. trade and other receiv-
ables are classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost.


9. inventories
the breakdown of inventories as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 is as follows:

                                                                                                                   (millions of yen)     (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                            fy2014                        fy2015                        fy2015
                                                                              (as of march 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)

work-in-process                                                                           ¥25,126                        ¥17,441                            $145

other                                                                                          856                          1,282                              11

total                                                                                     ¥25,982                        ¥18,724                            $155




                                                                            108                                                dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                              contents



                                            financial report




10. other financial assets
(1) the breakdown of other financial assets as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 is as follows:
                                                                                                                     (millions of yen)     (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                             fy2014                         fy2015                        fy2015
                                                                               (as of march 31, 2015)      (as of december 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)

derivative assets                                                                             ¥21,515                      ¥22,519                            $187

equity securities                                                                             188,996                      185,463                           1,538

debt securities                                                                                    705                           715                               6

other                                                                                          44,720                        47,922                             397

allowance for doubtful accounts                                                               (18,811)                      (17,592)                           (146)

total                                                                                       ¥237,126                     ¥239,028                           $1,982

current assets                                                                                 22,732                        20,945                             174

non-current assets                                                                            214,393                      218,083                           1,808

total                                                                                       ¥237,126                     ¥239,028                           $1,982


other financial assets are presented net of allowance for doubtful accounts in the consolidated statement of financial position.
  derivative assets are classified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss excluding those accounted for under hedge accounting,
equity securities are classified as financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, and debt securities are classified as financial
assets measured at amortized cost. “other” includes financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss of ¥3,110 million and ¥3,005 million ($25
million) as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015, respectively.


(2) names of major securities held as financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income and their fair values as of march 31, 2015
   and december 31, 2015 are as follows:

                                                                                      (millions of yen)
                                                                                             fy2014
investees
                                                                               (as of march 31, 2015)

recruit holdings co., ltd.                                                                  ¥112,500

digital garage, inc.                                                                             6,078



                                                                                      (millions of yen)
                                                                                             fy2015
investees
                                                                            (as of december 31, 2015)

recruit holdings co., ltd.                                                                 ¥106,800
digital garage, inc.                                                                            7,167
tokyo broadcasting system holdings, inc.                                                        4,940
asahi group holdings, ltd.                                                                      3,489
tv asahi holdings corporation                                                                   3,011



                                                                              (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                             fy2015
investees
                                                                            (as of december 31, 2015)

recruit holdings co., ltd.                                                                       $885
digital garage, inc.                                                                                59
tokyo broadcasting system holdings, inc.                                                            41
asahi group holdings, ltd.                                                                          29
tv asahi holdings corporation                                                                       25




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                109

                                                                                  contents



                                                financial report




equity securities are designated as financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income since they are held mainly for strengthening
relationships with investees.
  in order to pursue the efficiency of assets held and to use them effectively, sales of financial assets (derecognition) measured at fair value through other
comprehensive income have been carried out.
  the fair value at the date of sales and cumulative gain or loss that is recognized in equity as other comprehensive income for each fiscal year is as follows:


fy2014: year ended march 31, 2015
                                                                                         (millions of yen)

                                                       cumulative gain or loss recognized in equity as
                                 fair value
                                                                         other components of equity

                                   ¥2,520                                                           ¥766



fy2015: nine months ended december 31, 2015
                                                                                         (millions of yen)

                                                       cumulative gain or loss recognized in equity as
                                 fair value
                                                                         other components of equity

                                   ¥7,976                                                        ¥1,592



fy2015: nine months ended december 31, 2015
                                                                                 (millions of u.s. dollars)

                                                       cumulative gain or loss recognized in equity as
                                 fair value
                                                                         other components of equity

                                      $66                                                            $13


the cumulative gain or loss recognized in equity as other components of equity are transferred to retained earnings when an equity instrument is sold or the
decline in its fair value compared to its cost is significant.


11. other current assets
advanced payments included in other current assets which are expected to be recognized in profit or loss after more than 12 months as of march 31, 2015
and december 31, 2015 are as follows:

                                                                                                                        (millions of yen)     (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                fy2014                         fy2015                        fy2015
                                                                                  (as of march 31, 2015)      (as of december 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)

advanced payments which are expected to be recognized
                                                                                                 ¥10,674                        ¥4,289                             $36
  in profit and loss after more than 12 months




                                                                                 110                                                dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                contents



                                              financial report




12. non-current assets classified as held for sale
the breakdown of non-current assets classified as held for sale and liabilities directly associated with non-current assets classified as held for sale as of march
31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 is as follows.
  components of non-current assets classified as held for sale and liabilities directly associated with non-current assets classified as held for sale.

                                                                                                                        (millions of yen)     (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                               fy2014                          fy2015                        fy2015
                                                                                 (as of march 31, 2015)       (as of december 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)

non-current assets classified as held for sale

  goodwill                                                                                           –                          ¥2,536                             $21

  investments accounted for using the equity method                                                  –                           2,976                              25

total                                                                                                –                          ¥5,513                             $46

liabilities directly associated with non-current assets classi-
   fied as held for sale

  other financial liabilities                                                                        –                            ¥307                              $3

total                                                                                                –                            ¥307                              $3

non-current assets classified as held for sale as of december 31, 2015 consist of assets and liabilities related to an equity-method associate located in china.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                  111

                                                                               contents



                                            financial report




13. property, plant and equipment
(1) schedule of property, plant and equipment
the schedule of the carrying amount at the beginning and end of each fiscal year is as follows:

fy2014: year ended march 31, 2015
                                                                                                                                 (millions of yen)

                                                                   buildings and structures           land      other                        total

balance at the beginning of the year                                              ¥69,739         ¥117,271    ¥14,889                  ¥201,900
  additions                                                                          6,417               –      6,857                     13,275
  acquisitions through business combinations                                          510                –        352                         862
  sales or disposals                                                                (1,265)           (388)      (334)                     (1,987)
  depreciation                                                                      (6,225)              –     (5,080)                   (11,306)
  impairment losses                                                                   (263)           (791)       (20)                     (1,075)
  exchange differences on translation of foreign operations                          1,305              49        578                       1,933
  other                                                                             (1,672)         (2,106)      (785)                     (4,564)
balance at the end of the year                                                    ¥68,546         ¥114,034    ¥16,456                  ¥199,037



fy2015: nine months ended december 31, 2015
                                                                                                                                 (millions of yen)

                                                                   buildings and structures           land      other                        total

balance at the beginning of the year                                             ¥68,546          ¥114,034    ¥16,456                 ¥199,037
  additions                                                                         4,361                –      5,999                     10,360
  acquisitions through business combinations                                            77               –       482                          559
  sales or disposals                                                                 (123)              (0)       (92)                       (216)
  depreciation                                                                      (5,911)              –     (5,488)                   (11,399)
  impairment losses                                                                       –             (2)         –                           (2)
  exchange differences on translation of foreign operations                          (654)             (36)      (785)                    (1,475)
  other                                                                                (71)            45         (54)                        (80)
balance at the end of the year                                                   ¥66,224          ¥114,040    ¥16,518                 ¥196,782



fy2015: nine months ended december 31, 2015
                                                                                                                         (millions of u.s. dollars)

                                                                   buildings and structures           land      other                        total

balance at the beginning of the year                                                 $568            $945       $136                      $1,650
  additions                                                                             36               –         50                          86
  acquisitions through business combinations                                             1               –          4                            5
  sales or disposals                                                                    (1)             (0)        (1)                          (2)
  depreciation                                                                         (49)              –        (46)                        (95)
  impairment losses                                                                       –             (0)         –                           (0)
  exchange differences on translation of foreign operations                             (5)             (0)        (7)                        (12)
  other                                                                                 (1)              0         (0)                          (1)
balance at the end of the year                                                       $549            $946       $137                      $1,632




                                                                              112                             dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                 contents



                                              financial report




the acquisition cost, accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and carrying amount of property, plant and equipment as of march 31, 2015 and
december 31, 2015 are as follows:

                                                                                                                                               (millions of yen)

                                                                     buildings and structures                      land        other                       total

fy2014 (as of march 31, 2015)
  acquisition cost                                                                ¥140,097                   ¥114,828       ¥52,378                  ¥307,304
  accumulated depreciation and impairment losses                                      71,550                       794       35,922                    108,267
  carrying amount                                                                     68,546                   114,034       16,456                    199,037
fy2015 (as of december 31, 2015)
  acquisition cost                                                               ¥140,195                   ¥114,836       ¥53,310                  ¥308,342
  accumulated depreciation and impairment losses                                      73,971                       796       36,792                   111,560
  carrying amount                                                                     66,224                  114,040        16,518                   196,782

                                                                                                                                       (millions of u.s. dollars)

                                                                     buildings and structures                      land        other                       total

fy2015 (as of december 31, 2015)
  acquisition cost                                                                    $1,162                      $952         $442                     $2,557
  accumulated depreciation and impairment losses                                        613                           7         305                         925
  carrying amount                                                                       549                        946          137                      1,632

the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment above includes the carrying amount of the following leased assets as of march 31, 2015 and december
31, 2015.

                                                                                                                                               (millions of yen)

leased assets                                                                                   buildings and structures       other                       total

fy2014 (as of march 31, 2015)                                                                                      ¥23       ¥2,424                     ¥2,448
fy2015 (as of december 31, 2015)                                                                                      8       2,135                      2,144

                                                                                                                                       (millions of u.s. dollars)
leased assets                                                                                   buildings and structures       other                       total
fy2015 (as of december 31, 2015)                                                                                     $0         $18                         $18

there is no property, plant and equipment whose title is restricted or pledged as security for liabilities.
  depreciation is recorded in the consolidated statement of income as “cost” and “selling, general and administrative expenses.”


(2) impairment losses
property, plant and equipment is grouped by the smallest cash-generating unit that generates cash inflows that are largely independent according to each
reportable segment.
  the group recognized impairment losses of ¥1,075 million and ¥2 million ($0 million) for the year ended march 31, 2015 and for the nine months ended
december 31, 2015, respectively, in the consolidated statement of income as “other expenses.”
  impairment losses for the year ended march 31, 2015 represent the losses incurred to reduce the carrying amounts of buildings, structures, land and others
to their recoverable amounts due to a decline in profitability.
  impairment losses for the nine months ended december 31, 2015 represent the losses incurred to reduce the carrying amounts of land to its recoverable
amounts due to the assets becoming idle.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                   113

                                                                              contents



                                            financial report




14. goodwill and intangible assets
(1) schedule of goodwill and intangible assets
the schedule of the carrying amount at the beginning and end of each fiscal year is as follows:

fy2014: year ended march 31, 2015
                                                                                                                                        (millions of yen)
                                                                                      customer relation-
                                                                           goodwill                        software         other                   total
                                                                                                   ships
balance at the beginning of the year                                      ¥577,015            ¥183,446     ¥23,226        ¥52,833             ¥836,521
  additions                                                                       –                   –      9,704            847                10,552
  acquisitions through business combinations                                31,100              13,853         144          1,740                46,839
  sales or disposals                                                              –                   –       (137)            (12)                 (149)
  amortization                                                                    –            (14,228)     (8,220)         (5,566)             (28,015)
  impairment losses                                                               –                   –       (509)          (234)                  (744)
  exchange differences on translation of foreign operations                 48,769              13,516         250          3,776                66,314
  other                                                                       (320)                 279          –             32                      (7)
balance at the end of the year                                            ¥656,565            ¥196,867     ¥24,459        ¥53,417             ¥931,310



fy2015: nine months ended december 31, 2015
                                                                                                                                        (millions of yen)
                                                                                      customer relation-
                                                                           goodwill                        software         other                   total
                                                                                                   ships
balance at the beginning of the year                                     ¥656,565            ¥196,867      ¥24,459       ¥53,417             ¥931,310
  additions                                                                       –                   –      8,980            617                 9,597
  acquisitions through business combinations                                35,811              14,684          66          3,726                54,288
  sales or disposals                                                        (1,905)               (391)       (503)           (55)               (2,855)
  amortization                                                                    –            (17,080)     (6,250)        (6,126)              (29,457)
  impairment losses                                                               –             (2,060)       (143)          (278)               (2,482)
  exchange differences on translation of foreign operations                (31,015)            (10,091)       (555)        (2,251)              (43,912)
  other                                                                     (2,592)                   –         (2)           (40)               (2,635)
balance at the end of the year                                           ¥656,862            ¥181,929      ¥26,052       ¥49,009             ¥913,853



fy2015: nine months ended december 31, 2015
                                                                                                                                (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                      customer relation-
                                                                           goodwill                        software         other                   total
                                                                                                   ships
balance at the beginning of the year                                        $5,444              $1,632       $203           $443                 $7,722
  additions                                                                       –                   –         74               5                    80
  acquisitions through business combinations                                   297                 122           1             31                    450
  sales or disposals                                                           (16)                  (3)        (4)             (0)                  (24)
  amortization                                                                    –               (142)        (52)           (51)                  (244)
  impairment losses                                                               –                 (17)        (1)             (2)                  (21)
  exchange differences on translation of foreign operations                   (257)                 (84)        (5)           (19)                  (364)
  other                                                                        (21)                   –         (0)             (0)                  (22)
balance at the end of the year                                              $5,446              $1,508       $216           $406                 $7,577




                                                                            114                                       dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                     contents



                                               financial report




the acquisition cost, accumulated amortization and impairment losses, and carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets as of march 31, 2015 and
december 31, 2015 are as follows:

                                                                                                                                                   (millions of yen)
                                                                                               customer relation-
                                                                                  goodwill                           software          other                   total
                                                                                                            ships
fy2014 (as of march 31, 2015)
  acquisition cost                                                              ¥656,565               ¥227,439     ¥107,630         ¥72,170           ¥1,063,805
  accumulated amortization and impairment losses                                           –             30,572       83,170          18,752               132,495
  carrying amount                                                                 656,565               196,867       24,459          53,417               931,310
fy2015 (as of december 31, 2015)
  acquisition cost                                                              ¥656,862               ¥229,645     ¥104,424         ¥73,070           ¥1,064,002
  accumulated amortization and impairment losses                                           –             47,716       78,371          24,060               150,148
  carrying amount                                                                 656,862               181,929       26,052          49,009               913,853

                                                                                                                                           (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                               customer relation-
                                                                                  goodwill                           software          other                   total
                                                                                                            ships
fy2015 (as of december 31, 2015)
  acquisition cost                                                                 $5,446                $1,904        $866            $606                 $8,822
  accumulated amortization and impairment losses                                           –                396         650              199                 1,245
  carrying amount                                                                   5,446                 1,508         216              406                 7,577

the carrying amount of intangible assets above includes the carrying amount of the following leased assets as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015.
                                                                          (millions of yen)
leased assets                                                                     software
fy2014 (as of march 31, 2015)                                                        ¥562
fy2015 (as of december 31, 2015)                                                       421

                                                                  (millions of u.s. dollars)
leased assets                                                                     software
fy2015 (as of december 31, 2015)                                                          $3

there are no intangible assets whose title is restricted or pledged as security for liabilities.
  amortization is recorded in the consolidated statement of income as “cost” and “selling, general and administrative expenses.”


(2) significant goodwill and intangible assets
the significant portion of goodwill as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015, arose from the international business segment which forms a cash generating
unit, and amounted to ¥656,552 million and ¥656,590 million ($5,444 million) as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015, respectively.
  significant intangible assets other than goodwill as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015, consist of customer relationships in the international business
segment, which amounted to ¥196,867 million and ¥181,929 million ($1,508 million) as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015, respectively.


(3) impairment testing of goodwill
recoverable amounts of the international business segment to which significant goodwill was allocated are determined by the value in use based on the
financial budget for the next fiscal year approved by management and the management forecast for the subsequent four years. the continuing growth rate
of 3.4%(3.2% as of march 31, 2015 ) is set for cash flows beyond the four-year period.
  the pre-tax discount rates used for determining value in use are 8.9% and 8.1% as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015, respectively.
  for the goodwill above, the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit sufficiently exceeds its carrying amount. therefore, it is unlikely that the recov-
erable amount of the cash-generating unit will fall below the carrying amount even with reasonable changes in the key assumptions.


(4) impairment losses
intangible assets are grouped by the smallest cash-generating unit that generates cash inflows that are largely independent according to each reportable segment.
  the group recognized impairment losses of ¥744 million and ¥2,482 million ($21 million) for the year ended march 31, 2015 and for the nine months ended
december 31, 2015, respectively, in the consolidated statement of income as “other expenses.”
  impairment losses for the year ended march 31, 2015, represent the losses incurred to reduce the carrying amounts of software and other intangible assets




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                       115

                                                                               contents



                                               financial report




to their recoverable amounts due to a decline in profitability.
  impairment losses for the nine months ended december 31, 2015, represent the losses incurred to reduce the carrying amounts of customer relationships,
software and other intangible assets to their recoverable amounts due to a decline in profitability.


15. leases
the group leases buildings, software and other assets as a lessee. the lease contracts include those with renewal options, while they do not include significant
contracts with escalation clauses.
  there are no restrictions on additional debt, further leasing and others imposed by the lease contracts.


(1) present value of finance lease obligations
the total of future minimum lease payments for leased assets recognized based on the finance lease contracts, their future financial costs and present value
as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 are as follows:

                                                                                                                       (millions of yen)     (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                              fy2014                          fy2015                        fy2015
                                                                                (as of march 31, 2015)       (as of december 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)

not later than 1 year
  total of future minimum lease payments                                                      ¥1,263                           ¥1,138                              $9
  future finance costs                                                                             27                               22                               0
  present value                                                                               ¥1,236                           ¥1,116                              $9
later than 1 year and not later than 5 years
  total of future minimum lease payments                                                      ¥2,030                           ¥1,595                             $13
  future finance costs                                                                             26                               18                               0
  present value                                                                               ¥2,004                           ¥1,576                             $13
later than 5 years
  total of future minimum lease payments                                                           ¥5                               ¥6                             $0
  future finance costs                                                                              0                                 0                              0
  present value                                                                                    ¥5                               ¥6                             $0
total
  total of future minimum lease payments                                                      ¥3,300                           ¥2,740                             $23
  future finance costs                                                                             54                               41                               0
  present value                                                                               ¥3,245                           ¥2,699                             $22

(2) future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases
the total of future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 are as follows:

                                                                                                                       (millions of yen)     (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                              fy2014                          fy2015                        fy2015
                                                                                (as of march 31, 2015)       (as of december 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)

not later than 1 year                                                                       ¥17,041                          ¥25,470                            $211
later than 1 year and not later than 5 years                                                  52,077                           59,637                             494
later than 5 years                                                                            32,964                           43,985                             365
total                                                                                      ¥102,083                        ¥129,093                           $1,070

(3) total of minimum lease payments
the total of minimum lease payments of operating lease contracts for the year ended march 31, 2015 and for the nine months ended december 31, 2015 are
¥21,916 million and ¥24,404 million ($202 million), respectively.




                                                                              116                                                  dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                   contents



                                              financial report




16. investment property
(1) schedule of investment property.
the schedule of the carrying amount of investment property at the beginning and end of each fiscal year is as follows:

                                                                                                                               (millions of yen)         (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                                    fy2015                              fy2015
                                                                                                 fy2014
                                                                                                                (nine months ended decem-           (nine months ended decem-
                                                                              (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                               ber 31, 2015)                       ber 31, 2015)

balance at the beginning of the year                                                            ¥45,655                              ¥42,160                                $350

   additions                                                                                          24                                     40                                  0

   transfers from property, plant and equipment                                                    3,769                                       -                                  -

   depreciation                                                                                   (1,004)                                   (555)                               (5)

   sales or disposals                                                                             (6,285)                                     (4)                               (0)

   other                                                                                                -                                      1                                 0

balance at the end of the year                                                                  ¥42,160                              ¥41,642                                $345

acquisition cost (balance at the beginning of the year)                                         ¥59,047                              ¥53,854                                $447

accumulated depreciation and impairment losses
                                                                                                 13,392                                11,694                                  97
(balance at the beginning of the year)

acquisition cost (balance at the end of the year)                                               ¥53,854                              ¥50,950                                $422

accumulated depreciation and impairment losses
                                                                                                 11,694                                    9,308                              $77
(balance at the end of the year)

(2) fair value
the carrying amount and fair value of investment property as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 are as follows:

                                                                                                                       (millions of yen)                 (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                   fy2014                                    fy2015                                    fy2015
                                                                     (as of march 31, 2015)                 (as of december 31, 2015)                 (as of december 31, 2015)

                                                            carrying amount      fair value          carrying amount         fair value        carrying amount          fair value

   investment property (level 3)                                  ¥42,160         ¥47,715                   ¥41,642          ¥48,593                      $345              $403


the fair value of investment property is mainly based on real estate appraisal value. the valuation techniques are based on the discounted cash flow model
and observable quoted prices for similar properties and others.
  the investment property that is measured at fair value is categorized into the three levels of the fair value hierarchy according to observability and
significance of the inputs used in the measurements.
  the fair value hierarchy is defined as follows:
     level 1: fair value measured at the quoted price in the active market
     level 2: fair value that is measured using the observable price other than categorized in level 1 directly or indirectly
     level 3: fair value that is measured based on unobservable inputs
  the fair value of investment property for each fiscal year end is categorized within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.


(3) income and expenses from investment property
the rental income from investment property and direct operating expenses for each fiscal year are as follows:

                                                                                                                               (millions of yen)         (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                                    fy2015                              fy2015
                                                                                                 fy2014
                                                                                                                (nine months ended decem-           (nine months ended decem-
                                                                              (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                               ber 31, 2015)                       ber 31, 2015)

rental income                                                                                    ¥2,647                                ¥1,833                                 $15

direct operating expenses                                                                          2,516                                   1,307                               11




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                    117

                                                                               contents



                                             financial report




17. investments accounted for using the equity method
the carrying amount of investments in associates and joint ventures as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 is as follows:

                                                                                                                     (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                              fy2014                        fy2015                          fy2015
                                                                                (as of march 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)       (as of december 31, 2015)

total of carrying amount                                                                    ¥53,042                        ¥50,281                               $417

the financial information of associates and joint ventures for each fiscal year is as follows. the amounts take into account the group’s ownership ratio.

                                                                                                                     (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                             fy2015                          fy2015
                                                                                             fy2014
                                                                                                         (nine months ended decem-       (nine months ended decem-
                                                                          (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                        ber 31, 2015)                   ber 31, 2015)

profit for the year                                                                           ¥7,178                         ¥3,911                                $32

other comprehensive income                                                                       373                            (178)                                (1)

comprehensive income for the year                                                             ¥7,551                         ¥3,733                                $31

the group does not recognize the share of the cumulative amount of losses exceeding the carrying amounts incurred in certain investees accounted for using
the equity method.
  unrecognized losses for each fiscal year and cumulative unrecognized losses for the investments are as follows:

                                                                                                                     (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                             fy2015                          fy2015
                                                                                             fy2014
                                                                                                         (nine months ended decem-       (nine months ended decem-
                                                                          (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                        ber 31, 2015)                   ber 31, 2015)

unrecognized losses                                                                              ¥76                             ¥82                                $1



                                                                                                                     (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                              fy2014                        fy2015                          fy2015
                                                                                (as of march 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)       (as of december 31, 2015)

cumulative unrecognized losses                                                                  ¥207                           ¥347                                 $3




                                                                              118                                                dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                   contents



                                               financial report




18. income taxes
(1) deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities
the breakdown of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities by major causes of their occurrence as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 is as follows:

                                                                                                                         (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                  fy2014                        fy2015                          fy2015
                                                                                    (as of march 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)       (as of december 31, 2015)

deferred tax assets
  liability for retirement benefits                                                             ¥33,830                        ¥33,481                               $278
  accrued expenses                                                                                12,704                          7,969                                 66
  carryforwards of tax losses                                                                      6,603                          7,373                                 61
  other                                                                                            8,719                          6,441                                 53
total of deferred tax assets                                                                    ¥61,858                        ¥55,265                               $458
deferred tax liabilities
  gain on establishment of retirement benefit trust                                             ¥(14,701)                     ¥(14,701)                             $(122)
  unrealized gain on securities                                                                  (38,364)                       (36,879)                              (306)
  valuation differences on intangible assets                                                     (55,269)                       (50,187)                              (416)
  other                                                                                          (12,260)                        (7,614)                               (63)
total of deferred tax liabilities                                                             ¥(120,596)                     ¥(109,383)                             $(907)
net deferred tax assets (liabilities)                                                           ¥(58,737)                     ¥(54,118)                             $(449)

changes in net deferred tax assets (liabilities) for each fiscal year are as follows:

                                                                                                                         (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                                 fy2015                          fy2015
                                                                                                 fy2014
                                                                                                             (nine months ended decem-       (nine months ended decem-
                                                                              (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                            ber 31, 2015)                   ber 31, 2015)

net deferred tax assets (liabilities)
balance at the beginning of the year                                                             ¥(6,923)                     ¥(58,737)                             $(487)
  deferred income taxes                                                                            (8,235)                        6,444                                 53
  deferred taxes related to components of other comprehensive
   income
     exchange differences on translation of foreign operations                                         23                            (35)                                (0)
     effective portion of the change in the fair value of cash flow
                                                                                                     (743)                           840                                  7
       hedges
     net change in financial assets measured at fair value through
                                                                                                 (30,845)                           (734)                                (6)
      other comprehensive income
     remeasurements of defined benefit plans                                                       (5,088)                       (1,220)                               (10)
  changes in deferred tax assets (liabilities) arising from business
                                                                                                   (6,924)                          (675)                                (6)
    combinations, and others
  balance at the end of the year                                                                ¥(58,737)                     ¥(54,118)                             $(449)

taxable temporary differences, future taxable income determinations and tax planning are taken into account when recognising deferred tax assets.
  the breakdown of deductible temporary differences and carryforwards of tax losses as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015, for which deferred tax
assets are not recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position, is as follows:

                                                                                                                         (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                  fy2014                        fy2015                          fy2015
                                                                                    (as of march 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)       (as of december 31, 2015)

deductible temporary differences                                                                ¥12,210                        ¥10,977                                 $91
carryforwards of tax losses                                                                       70,440                         60,604                                502




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                     119

                                                                                contents



                                                 financial report




the breakdown of carryforwards of tax losses by expiry date as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015, for which deferred tax assets are not recognized in
the consolidated statement of financial position, is as follows:

                                                                                                                          (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                               fy2014                           fy2015                           fy2015
                                                                                 (as of march 31, 2015)        (as of december 31, 2015)        (as of december 31, 2015)

1st year                                                                                          ¥53                           ¥12,668                               $105
2nd year                                                                                       16,634                                 354                                  3
3rd year                                                                                          558                                 206                                  2
4th year                                                                                          564                                 783                                  6
5th year                                                                                        1,131                                 355                                  3
after the 5th year                                                                              4,291                              3,118                                 26
no definite term for expiry                                                                    47,206                             43,118                                357
total                                                                                         ¥70,440                           ¥60,604                               $502

the total amount of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, for which deferred tax liabilities
are not recognized amounted to ¥140,079 million and ¥142,738 million ($1,183 million) as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015, respectively.
  deferred tax liabilities are not recognized for these differences since the group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and
it is probable the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.


(2) income tax expense
the breakdown of income tax expense for each fiscal year is as follows:

                                                                                                                          (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                                 fy2015                           fy2015
                                                                                              fy2014
                                                                                                             (nine months ended decem-        (nine months ended decem-
                                                                           (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                            ber 31, 2015)                    ber 31, 2015)

current income taxes                                                                          ¥41,414                           ¥34,784                               $288
deferred income taxes                                                                           8,235                             (6,444)                               (53)

deferred income taxes increased by ¥3,847 million in the fiscal year ended march 31, 2015 due to a change in the income tax rate in japan and decreased by
¥3,038 million ($25 million) in the nine months ended december 31, 2015 due to a change in the tax rate in england.


(3) reconciliation of effective tax rate
the breakdown of major items that caused differences between the effective statutory tax rate and income tax rate following the adoption of deferred tax
accounting for each fiscal year is as follows:
  the company is subject mainly to corporate tax, inhabitant tax and enterprise tax. the effective statutory tax rates calculated based on these taxes are
36.0% and 33.0% for the year ended march 31, 2015 and for the nine months ended december 31, 2015, respectively. foreign subsidiaries are subject to
income taxes at their locations.

                                                                                                                                                                         (%)
                                                                                                                                                                  fy2015
                                                                                                                             fy2014
                                                                                                                                              (nine months ended decem-
                                                                                                          (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                                                             ber 31, 2015)

effective statutory tax rate                                                                                                     36.0                                  33.0
  (reconciliation items)
  permanently non-deductible items, including entertainment expenses                                                              2.9                                   1.3
  permanently non-taxable items, including dividend income                                                                       (1.0)                                  (2.9)
  share of results of associates                                                                                                 (1.9)                                  (1.2)
  reduction of deferred tax assets (liabilities) at fiscal year end due to tax rate changes                                       2.9                                   (2.8)
  other                                                                                                                          (1.9)                                  (0.7)
income tax rate following the adoption of deferred tax accounting                                                                37.0                                  26.7




                                                                               120                                                      dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                contents



                                                   financial report




19. trade and other payables
(1) the breakdown of trade and other payables as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 is as follows:

                                                                                                                   (millions of yen)     (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                              fy2014                      fy2015                        fy2015
                                                                                (as of march 31, 2015)   (as of december 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)

notes and accounts payable—trade                                                           ¥1,161,112                ¥1,157,663                           $9,598
other                                                                                          70,107                      49,684                             412
total                                                                                      ¥1,231,220                ¥1,207,347                         $10,010

trade and other payables are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost.


(2) assets pledged as collateral for liabilities
assets pledged as collateral and corresponding liabilities as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 are as follows:

                                                                                                                   (millions of yen)     (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                              fy2014                      fy2015                        fy2015
assets pledged as collateral
                                                                                (as of march 31, 2015)   (as of december 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)

other financial assets (current assets)                                                          ¥72                           ¥72                             $1


                                                                                              fy2014                      fy2015                        fy2015
corresponding liabilities
                                                                                (as of march 31, 2015)   (as of december 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)

notes and accounts payable                                                                      ¥634                         ¥509                              $4


other than the above corresponding liabilities, the assets are pledged as collateral for guarantee transactions that are released in the “official gazette”
(kanpou) and for opening checking accounts.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                 121

                                                                                        contents



                                                financial report




20. bonds and borrowings (including other financial liabilities)
breakdown of financial liabilities
the breakdown of bonds and borrowings (including other financial liabilities) as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 is as follows:

                                                                                                                                     (millions of yen)          (millions of u.s. dollars)

                                                                                  fy2014                        fy2015                                                      fy2015
                                                                                                                                 date of maturity
                                                                    (as of march 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)                                   (as of december 31, 2015)

derivative liabilities                                                           ¥27,848                       ¥34,971                 –                                             $290
current portion of bonds (note)                                                    4,413                               –               –                                                  –
bonds (note)                                                                       7,955                               –               –                                                  –
short-term borrowings                                                             39,214                        12,190                 –                                               101
current portion of long-term borrowings                                           30,026                        34,615                 –                                               287
long-term borrowings                                                             328,009                       286,977               2016–2023                                      2,379
other                                                                             95,999                        82,752                 –                                               686
total                                                                           ¥533,466                     ¥471,506                  –                                           $3,909
current liabilities                                                             ¥127,735                     ¥111,794                                                                $927
non-current liabilities                                                          405,730                       359,712                                                              2,982
total                                                                           ¥533,466                     ¥471,506                                                              $3,909


derivative liabilities are classified as financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss excluding those accounted for under hedge accounting.
  bonds and borrowings are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. the average interest rates of short-term borrowings and long-term
borrowings (including the current portion of long-term borrowings) for the nine months ended december 31, 2015 are 3.01% and 1.16%, respectively.
  “other” includes financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss of ¥64,790 million and ¥59,269 million ($491 million) as of march 31, 2015
and december 31, 2015, respectively.
  there are no financial covenants on bonds and borrowings that have a significant effect on the group’s financial activities.

(note) a summary of the issuing terms of each bond is as follows:

                                                                                                                                                                           (millions of yen)
                                                                                              fy2014              fy2015
                                                                                                                             interest rate
           company                    name of bond           date of issuance         (as of march 31,   (as of december                           collateral          date of maturity
                                                                                                                                        %
                                                                                                 2015)           31, 2015)

                                 senior unsecured notes                                    ¥4,413                                              unsecured
dentsu aegis network ltd.                                   july 28, 2005                                               –            5.50                              july 28, 2015
                                 series b                                          (usd 35 million)                                            bonds
                                 senior unsecured notes     september 17,                  ¥6,001                                              unsecured               september 17,
dentsu aegis network ltd.                                                                                               –            6.29
                                 series b                   2007                   (usd 50 million)                                            bonds                   2017 (note 2)
                                 senior unsecured notes     december 17,                   ¥1,953                                              unsecured               december 17,
dentsu aegis network ltd.                                                                                               –            6.50
                                 series c                   2009                   (usd 15 million)                                            bonds                   2019 (note 2)
                                                                                          ¥12,368
total                            –                          –                                                           –               –      –                       –
                                                                                  (usd 100 million)
(note 1) since bonds have been issued overseas, the amount denominated in foreign currency is noted in ( ) as of march 31, 2015.
(note 2) the company called the bond for early redemption in the full amount on july 28, 2015.




                                                                                       122                                                    dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                        contents



                                               financial report




21. provisions
the breakdown and schedule of provisions for each fiscal year are as follows:

fy2014: year ended march 31, 2015
                                                                                                                                               (millions of yen)
                                                                  provisions for asset retire-     provisions for loss on
                                                                                                                            other provisions               total
                                                                           ment obligations               order received

balance at the beginning of the year                                                   ¥900                        ¥165                  ¥–            ¥1,065

  additional provisions in the year                                                     255                         112              3,655               4,024

  interest expense incurred over the discount period                                      15                           –                  –                  15

  provisions used                                                                        (56)                      (146)                (83)              (286)

  provisions reversed                                                                      (3)                          –               (17)                (21)

  exchange differences on translation of foreign operations                                  –                         –                 38                  38

balance at the end of the year                                                       ¥1,110                        ¥132             ¥3,593             ¥4,836

current liabilities                                                                     ¥76                        ¥132                  ¥–               ¥208

non-current liabilities                                                               1,034                            –             3,593               4,627

total                                                                                ¥1,110                        ¥132             ¥3,593             ¥4,836



fy2015: nine months ended december 31, 2015
                                                                                                                                               (millions of yen)
                                                                  provisions for asset retire-     provisions for loss on
                                                                                                                            other provisions               total
                                                                           ment obligations               order received

balance at the beginning of the year                                                ¥1,110                        ¥132              ¥3,593             ¥4,836

  additional provisions in the year                                                       23                        989              1,372              2,385

  interest expense incurred over the discount period                                      11                           –                  –                 11

  provisions used                                                                        (90)                      (132)              (127)               (349)

  provisions reversed                                                                        –                         –            (1,111)            (1,111)

  exchange differences on translation of foreign operations                                  –                         –            (1,008)            (1,008)

  other                                                                                      –                         –               152                 152

balance at the end of the year                                                      ¥1,056                        ¥989              ¥2,871             ¥4,916

current liabilities                                                                          –                    ¥989                ¥830             ¥1,819

non-current liabilities                                                               1,056                            –             2,040              3,096

total                                                                               ¥1,056                        ¥989              ¥2,871             ¥4,916




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                          123

                                                                                        contents



                                               financial report




fy2015: nine months ended december 31, 2015
                                                                                                                                               (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                  provisions for asset retire-     provisions for loss on
                                                                                                                            other provisions                        total
                                                                           ment obligations               order received

balance at the beginning of the year                                                      $9                         $1                $30                          $40

  additional provisions in the year                                                          0                         8                 11                          20

  interest expense incurred over the discount period                                         0                         –                  –                            0

  provisions used                                                                         (1)                         (1)                (1)                          (3)

  provisions reversed                                                                        –                         –                 (9)                          (9)

  exchange differences on translation of foreign operations                                  –                         –                 (8)                          (8)

  other                                                                                      –                         –                  1                            1

balance at the end of the year                                                            $9                         $8                $24                          $41

current liabilities                                                                       $–                         $8                  $7                         $15

non-current liabilities                                                                      9                         –                 17                          26

total                                                                                     $9                         $8                $24                          $41

(1) provisions for asset retirement obligations
the probable amount to be paid in the future is recognized based on past performance in settling restoration obligations in lease contracts for offices that
the group uses.
  these expenses are primarily expected to be paid after one year or more, subject to possible changes due to future events such as business plan changes.


(2) provisions for loss on order received
if losses are expected to be incurred from the performance of contracts related to orders received from customers for the subsequent fiscal years and such
losses can be reasonably estimated, loss provisions are recognized in the amounts expected to be incurred in the subsequent fiscal years.




                                                                                       124                                          dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                       contents



                                                 financial report




22. post-employment benefits
the group operates defined benefit plans that include corporate pension fund plans, tax-qualified pension plans, defined benefit corporate pension plans
and retirement lump-sum payment plans.
  the corporate pension fund plans, tax-qualified pension plans and defined benefit corporate pension plans are administrated by a pension fund that is
legally separated from the group in accordance with statutory requirements.
  the group, or the board of pension funds and asset managers, is required by law to act in the best interests of the plan participants, and is responsible for
managing the plan assets in accordance with the designated policy.
  the group is obligated to pay contributions to the corporate pension fund, which grants pension benefits, in accordance with laws and regulations.
  the company voluntarily operates a retirement benefits trust for corporate pension fund plans and retirement lump-sum payment plans.
  in addition, the company and certain domestic consolidated subsidiaries operate defined contribution pension plans while some overseas consolidated
subsidiaries operate defined contribution retirement benefit plans.
  the company, on april 1, 2015, and regional dentsu subsidiaries (dentsu east inc., dentsu west inc., dentsu kyushu inc., and dentsu hokkaido inc.), on
january 1, 2016, partially shifted from a defined benefit corporate pension plan to a defined contribution pension plan.


(1) reconciliation of defined benefit obligations and plan assets
the reconciliation of the defined benefit obligations and plan assets to the net defined benefit liabilities (assets) recognized in the consolidated statement
of financial position as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 is as follows:

                                                                                                                                (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                      fy2014                           fy2015                          fy2015
                                                                                        (as of march 31, 2015)        (as of december 31, 2015)       (as of december 31, 2015)

funded defined benefit obligations                                                                 ¥164,439                          ¥122,840                             $1,018
plan assets                                                                                         (149,463)                        (107,123)                               (888)
   subtotal                                                                                           14,976                            15,717                                130
unfunded defined benefit obligations                                                                  14,110                            14,141                                117
   total                                                                                            ¥29,086                           ¥29,859                               $248
balance recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position
liabilities for retirement benefits                                                                 ¥43,674                           ¥30,557                               $253
assets for retirement benefits                                                                       (14,588)                              (697)                                (6)
net defined benefit liabilities (assets) recognized in the
                                                                                                    ¥29,086                           ¥29,859                               $248
 consolidated statement of financial position

(2) schedule of defined benefit obligations
the schedule of defined benefit obligations for each fiscal year is as follows:

                                                                                                                                (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                                       fy2015                           fy2015
                                                                                                     fy2014
                                                                                                                   (nine months ended decem-        (nine months ended decem-
                                                                                  (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                                  ber 31, 2015)                    ber 31, 2015)

balance at the beginning of the year                                                               ¥168,515                          ¥178,550                             $1,480
   current service cost (note 1)                                                                        8,342                            5,366                                 44
   interest expense (note 1)                                                                           2,144                                855                                  7
   actuarial gains and losses (note 2)                                                                 6,972                                257                                  2
   benefits paid                                                                                       (8,235)                          (9,711)                               (81)
   past service cost                                                                                     516                                162                                  1
   changes due to termination (curtailment or settlement)
                                                                                                            –                          (38,316)                              (318)
     of a defined benefit plans
   exchange differences on translation of foreign operations                                               74                              (185)                                (2)
   effects of business combinations and disposals                                                          17                                  3                                 0
   other                                                                                                 202                                   –                                 –
balance at the end of the year                                                                     ¥178,550                          ¥136,982                             $1,136
(note 1) current service cost is recognized in “cost” and “selling, general and administrative expenses”. interest expenses, net of interest income, are recognized in
          “finance costs.”
(note 2) actuarial gains and losses arise mainly from changes in financial assumptions.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                        125

                                                                             contents



                                              financial report




the weighted average duration of defined benefit obligations as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 is as follows:

                                                                                                                              (years)
                                                                                            fy2014                         fy2015
                                                                              (as of march 31, 2015)      (as of december 31, 2015)

weighted average duration                                                                       9.1                             9.7

(3) schedule of plan assets
the schedule of plan assets for each fiscal year is as follows:

                                                                                                                    (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                           fy2015                           fy2015
                                                                                           fy2014
                                                                                                       (nine months ended decem-        (nine months ended decem-
                                                                        (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                      ber 31, 2015)                    ber 31, 2015)

balance at the beginning of the year                                                     ¥115,329                       ¥149,463                              $1,239
  interest income                                                                            1,562                              668                                  6
  return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in
                                                                                            19,575                           4,219                                 35
    interest income)
  contributions by the employer                                                              6,891                              586                                  5
  contributions (refunds) associated with the shift to
                                                                                             8,872                          (3,211)                               (27)
   defined contribution pension plans
  benefits paid                                                                              (3,102)                        (6,219)                               (52)
  changes due to termination (curtailment or settlement)
                                                                                                  –                        (38,316)                              (318)
    of a defined benefit plans
  exchange differences on translation of foreign operations                                    111                              (67)                                (1)
  effects of business combinations and disposals                                                 10                                –                                 –
  other                                                                                        213                                 –                                 –
balance at the end of the year                                                           ¥149,463                       ¥107,123                                $888

the group plans to pay contributions of ¥177 million ($1 million) in the year ending december 31, 2016.




                                                                            126                                                 dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                         contents



                                                   financial report




(4) major breakdown of plan assets
the major breakdown of the total of plan assets as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 is as follows:

                                                                                                                       (millions of yen)                           (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                         fy2014                                          fy2015                                                  fy2015
                                                           (as of march 31, 2015)                       (as of december 31, 2015)                               (as of december 31, 2015)

                                  plan assets with     plan assets                  plan assets with     plan assets                        plan assets with     plan assets
                                   quoted market without quoted                      quoted market without quoted                            quoted market without quoted
                                                                           total                                                  total                                                total
                                       price in an market price in                       price in an market price in                             price in an market price in
                                    active market an active market                    active market an active market                          active market an active market

equity instruments                     ¥85,053                 ¥5      ¥85,059          ¥72,291                 ¥0           ¥72,291                 $599               $0            $599

debt instruments                         16,770            2,928         19,699            1,148                52              1,200                   10                0              10

general account of life
                                               –          20,481         20,481                  –         18,300              18,300                     –            152              152
 insurance companies

other                                          –          24,224         24,224                  –         15,330              15,330                     –            127              127

total                                 ¥101,824          ¥47,639       ¥149,463          ¥73,439          ¥33,684           ¥107,123                  $609            $279             $888
(note)	plan assets above include retirement benefit trusts established for corporate pension fund plans and retirement lump-sum payment plans of ¥71,328 million and
       ¥72,563 million ($602 million), as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015, respectively.
	equity and debt instruments held as of march 31, 2015 are mainly those issued in japan. as of december 31, 2015, equity instruments are mainly those issued in japan
       and debt instruments are mainly those issued in overseas.

the objectives of plan asset investments are to reduce long-term contribution obligations and improve benefits within a tolerable risk while securing sufficient
assets to grant benefits. to achieve these objectives, medium- to long-term future estimates of fund finance are taken into account, and the effect of
uncertainty in the plan asset management on plan assets financing (such as the possibility of fund shortages) and tolerable levels of uncertainty in the rates of
return on plan assets are adequately reviewed.
  in addition, asset investments are managed to achieve these objectives by establishing a policy for future optimal asset composition ratios (hereinafter
referred to as “policy asset allocation”), selecting an asset manager and monitoring asset allocation, after setting forecasts of expected rates of returns on
appropriate assets for investment.
  the policy asset allocation is verified annually and reviewed as necessary if any changes are made to the terms and conditions set at the time of the policy’s
establishment.


(5) actuarial assumptions
the major items of actuarial assumptions as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 are as follows:

                                                                                                                                                        (%)
                                                                                                        fy2014                                  fy2015
                                                                                          (as of march 31, 2015)               (as of december 31, 2015)

discount rate                                                                                                 1.1                                      0.8
(note)	the sensitivities of the defined benefit obligations due to changes in major assumptions as of each fiscal year are as follows. each of these analyses assumes that
        other variables remain fixed; however, they do not always change independently.
        negative figures indicate a decrease in defined benefit obligations, while positive figures indicate an increase.

                                                                                                                                           (millions of yen)       (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                        fy2014                                  fy2015                            fy2015
                                                          change in assumptions
                                                                                          (as of march 31, 2015)               (as of december 31, 2015)         (as of december 31, 2015)

                                                              increase by 0.5%                          ¥(9,652)                                  ¥(6,298)                             $(52)
discount rate
                                                             decrease by 0.5%                           ¥10,663                                    ¥6,840                               $57


(6) defined contribution plans
expenses recognized due to contributions to defined contribution plans by the company and consolidated subsidiaries amounted to ¥4,263 million and
¥6,534 million ($54 million) for the year ended march 31, 2015 and for the nine months ended december 31, 2015, respectively.
  such amounts are recognized in “cost” and “selling, general and administrative expenses.”




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                          127

                                                                                      contents



                                                 financial report




23. equity and other equity items                                                           (3) reserves
(1) share capital                                                                           a. share premium account
a. authorized shares                                                                        under the companies act of japan, at least 50% of the proceeds upon
the number of authorized shares as of march 31, 2015 and december 31,                       issuance of equity instruments shall be credited to share capital, while the
2015 is 1,100,000,000 ordinary shares.                                                      remainder of the proceeds shall be credited to capital reserves included
                                                                                            in share premium account.
b. fully paid issued shares
the number of issued shares as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015                      b. retained earnings
are as follows:                                                                             the companies act provides that 10% of the dividends of retained earn-

                                                               number of ordinary
                                                                                            ings shall be appropriated as capital reserves or as retained earnings
                                                                   issued shares            reserves until their aggregate amount equals 25% of share capital.
                                                                         (shares)
fy2014 (as of march 31, 2015)                                       288,410,000
   increase (decrease)                                                          –
fy2015 (as of december 31, 2015)                                    288,410,000


all the shares issued by the company are non-par value ordinary shares
that have no restriction on any content of rights.


(2) treasury shares
the number of treasury shares as of march 31, 2015 and december 31,
2015 are as follows:

                                                                number of shares
                                                                        (shares)
fy2014 (as of march 31, 2015)                                             48,602
   increase (decrease)                                                3,222,337
fy2015 (as of december 31, 2015)                                      3,270,939
(note)	out of the increase in treasury shares, 3,218,400 shares were acquired pur-
       suant to the resolution at the board of directors meeting held on may 14,
       2015 in accordance with article 156 of the companies act, as applied mu-
       tatis mutandis pursuant to the provisions of article 165, paragraph 3 of the
       companies act. the remaining 3,937 shares represent an increase due to
       repurchase of shares less than one unit.




                                                                                      128                                              dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                        contents



                                               financial report




24. dividends
(1) dividends paid

fy2014: year ended march 31, 2015
                                                                                     total dividends             dividends per share
resolution                                                class of shares                                                                                    basis date                  effective date
                                                                                    (millions of yen)                           (yen)

annual shareholders meeting (june 27, 2014)             ordinary shares                       ¥4,902                              ¥17.00          march 31, 2014                      june 30, 2014

board of directors (november 12, 2014)                  ordinary shares                       ¥5,767                              ¥20.00          september 30, 2014                  december 5, 2014


fy2015: nine months ended december 31, 2015
                                                                                     total dividends             dividends per share
resolution                                                class of shares                                                                                    basis date                  effective date
                                                                                    (millions of yen)                           (yen)

annual shareholders meeting (june 26, 2015)             ordinary shares                      ¥10,092                              ¥35.00          march 31, 2015                      june 29, 2015

board of directors (november 11, 2015)                  ordinary shares                       ¥9,979                              ¥35.00          september 30, 2015                  december 4, 2015


fy2015: nine months ended december 31, 2015
                                                                                     total dividends             dividends per share
resolution                                                class of shares                                                                                    basis date                  effective date
                                                                              (millions of u.s. dollars)                (u.s. dollars)

annual shareholders meeting (june 26, 2015)             ordinary shares                           $84                               $0.29         march 31, 2015                      june 29, 2015

board of directors (november 11, 2015)                  ordinary shares                           $83                               $0.29         september 30, 2015                  december 4, 2015


(2) dividends for which the basis date falls before fiscal year end, while the effective date falls in the following fiscal year

fy2014: year ended march 31, 2015
                                                                                 dividends                    total dividends            dividends per
resolution                                            class of shares                                                                                                 basis date            effective date
                                                                                 resource                    (millions of yen)              share (yen)

annual shareholders meeting (june 26, 2015)          ordinary shares        retained earnings                         ¥10,092                  ¥35.00              march 31, 2015          june 29, 2015



fy2015: nine months ended december 31, 2015
                                                                                 dividends                    total dividends            dividends per
resolution                                            class of shares                                                                                                 basis date            effective date
                                                                                 resource                    (millions of yen)              share (yen)

annual shareholders meeting (march 30, 2016)         ordinary shares        retained earnings                         ¥11,405                  ¥40.00          december 31, 2015 march 31, 2016



fy2015: nine months ended december 31, 2015
                                                                                 dividends                    total dividends             dividends per
resolution                                            class of shares                                                                                                 basis date            effective date
                                                                                 resource                  (millions of u.s. dollars) share (u.s. dollars)

annual shareholders meeting (march 30, 2016)         ordinary shares        retained earnings                                $95                 $0.33         december 31, 2015 march 31, 2016




25. selling, general and administrative expenses
the breakdown of selling, general and administrative expenses for each fiscal year is as follows:
                                                                                                                                                    (millions of yen)              (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                                                       fy2015                                  fy2015
                                                                                                    fy2014
                                                                                                                                   (nine months ended decem-               (nine months ended decem-
                                                                                 (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                                                  ber 31, 2015)                           ber 31, 2015)

staff costs                                                                                                ¥385,258                                          ¥376,274                               $3,120

depreciation and amortisation                                                                                  36,249                                           39,092                                  324

other                                                                                                        150,575                                          151,120                                1,253

total                                                                                                      ¥572,084                                          ¥566,487                               $4,697

“other” includes research and development costs of ¥938 million and ¥596 million ($5 million) for the year ended march 31, 2015 and for the nine months
ended december 31, 2015, respectively.



dentsu integrated report 2016                                                          129

                                                                                    contents



                                                financial report




26. staff costs
the breakdown of staff costs for each fiscal year is as follows:
                                                                                                                            (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                                    fy2015                          fy2015
                                                                                                  fy2014
                                                                                                                (nine months ended decem-       (nine months ended decem-
                                                                               (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                               ber 31, 2015)                   ber 31, 2015)

salaries, bonuses and allowances                                                                ¥336,331                         ¥328,386                             $2,723

welfare expenses                                                                                  50,952                            50,279                                417

post-employment benefits costs                                                                    13,653                            12,335                                102

other                                                                                               3,947                               813                                  7

total                                                                                           ¥404,884                         ¥391,815                             $3,249

staff costs are recorded in “cost,” “selling, general and administrative expenses” and “finance costs” in the consolidated statement of income.



27. other income
the breakdown of other income for each fiscal year is as follows:
                                                                                                                            (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                                    fy2015                          fy2015
                                                                                                  fy2014
                                                                                                                (nine months ended decem-       (nine months ended decem-
                                                                               (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                               ber 31, 2015)                   ber 31, 2015)

profit distributions                                                                              ¥4,612                            ¥7,134                                $59

foreign exchange gains                                                                                225                               422                                  3

gain on sale of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and
                                                                                                  32,194                                700                                  6
 investment property

gain on sale of subsidiaries and associates shares                                                    306                               954                                  8

gain on step acquisitions and gain on remeasurement of residual
                                                                                                      516                            2,905                                 24
 interests on loss of control or significant influence

other                                                                                               1,247                               912                                  8

total                                                                                            ¥39,102                          ¥13,030                               $108



28. other expenses
the breakdown of other expenses for each fiscal year is as follows:
                                                                                                                            (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                                    fy2015                          fy2015
                                                                                                  fy2014
                                                                                                                (nine months ended decem-       (nine months ended decem-
                                                                               (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                               ber 31, 2015)                   ber 31, 2015)

amortisation of long-term prepaid expenses                                                        ¥2,603                            ¥2,377                                $20

loss on sale of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and
                                                                                                    4,261                                50                                  0
  investment property

impairment losses                                                                                   1,824                            2,489                                 21

loss on liquidation of subsidiaries and associates                                                      –                            2,617                                 22

other                                                                                               2,948                            1,231                                 10

total                                                                                            ¥11,638                            ¥8,766                                $73




                                                                                   130                                                  dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                         contents



                                                  financial report




29. finance income and finance costs
(1) the breakdown of finance income for each fiscal year is as follows:

                                                                                                                                    (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                                          fy2015                            fy2015
                                                                                                       fy2014
                                                                                                                      (nine months ended decem-         (nine months ended decem-
                                                                                    (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                                     ber 31, 2015)                     ber 31, 2015)

interest income

   financial assets measured at amortized cost                                                          ¥1,980                              ¥1,884                                $16

   financial instruments measured at fair value through
                                                                                                             19                                    –                                 –
     profit or loss

dividend income

   financial assets measured at fair value through other
                                                                                                         2,276                               2,251                                 19
     comprehensive income

changes in fair value of contingent consideration                                                        1,071                                     –                                 –

dividend income and asset management gains from
                                                                                                           552                                  505                                  4
  insurance

foreign exchange gains (note 1)                                                                          1,119                                     –                                 –

other (note 2)                                                                                               48                                 284                                  2

total                                                                                                   ¥7,067                              ¥4,926                                $41
(note 1) valuation gain on foreign currency derivatives is included in the foreign exchange gains.
(note 2) “other” includes finance income arising from financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss of ¥5 million and ¥29 million ($0 million) for the year
          ended march 31, 2015 and for the nine months ended december 31, 2015, respectively.


the breakdown of dividend income is as follows:

                                                                                                                                    (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                                          fy2015                            fy2015
                                                                                                       fy2014
                                                                                                                      (nine months ended decem-         (nine months ended decem-
                                                                                    (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                                     ber 31, 2015)                     ber 31, 2015)

financial assets derecognized during the fiscal year                                                      ¥785                                   ¥2                                $0

financial assets held at the end of the fiscal year                                                      1,490                               2,248                                 19


(2) the breakdown of finance costs for each fiscal year is as follows:

                                                                                                                                    (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                                          fy2015                            fy2015
                                                                                                       fy2014
                                                                                                                      (nine months ended decem-         (nine months ended decem-
                                                                                    (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                                     ber 31, 2015)                     ber 31, 2015)

interest expense

   financial liabilities measured at amortized cost                                                     ¥7,112                              ¥6,840                                $57

   other                                                                                                   564                                  195                                  2

changes in fair value of contingent consideration                                                             –                              1,662                                 14

foreign exchange losses (note 1)                                                                              –                                  66                                  1

other (note 2)                                                                                           4,578                               1,294                                 11

total                                                                                                  ¥12,255                            ¥10,059                                 $83
(note 1) valuation loss on foreign currency derivatives is included in the foreign exchange lossess.
(note 2) “other” includes finance costs arising from financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss of ¥305 million and ¥62 million ($1million) for the year
          ended march 31, 2015 and for the nine months ended december 31, 2015, respectively.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                           131

                                                                             contents



                                             financial report




30. other comprehensive income
amount arising during the year, reclassification adjustments to profit or loss and income tax effects for each component of other comprehensive income for
each fiscal year are as follows:

                                                                                                                  (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                          fy2015                          fy2015
                                                                                           fy2014
                                                                                                      (nine months ended decem-       (nine months ended decem-
                                                                        (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                     ber 31, 2015)                   ber 31, 2015)

exchange differences on translation of foreign operations

  amount arising during the year                                                          ¥46,040                      ¥(35,232)                             $(292)

  reclassification adjustments                                                                  (3)                          (170)                                (1)

     before tax effects                                                                    46,037                        (35,403)                              (294)

     tax effects                                                                                23                            (35)                                (0)

     exchange differences on translation of foreign operations                            ¥46,061                      ¥(35,439)                             $(294)

effective portion of the change in the fair value of cash flow hedges

  amount arising during the year                                                           ¥4,959                        ¥(1,034)                               $(9)

  reclassification adjustments                                                              (3,180)                       (1,756)                               (15)

     before tax effects                                                                      1,779                        (2,790)                               (23)

     tax effects                                                                              (743)                           840                                  7

     effective portion of the change in the fair value of cash flow
                                                                                           ¥1,036                        ¥(1,950)                              $(16)
       hedges

net change in financial assets measured at fair value through other
 comprehensive income

  amount arising during the year                                                          ¥97,550                         ¥4,089                                $34

     before tax effects                                                                    97,550                          4,089                                 34

     tax effects                                                                           (30,845)                          (734)                                (6)

     net change in financial assets measured at fair value through
                                                                                          ¥66,704                         ¥3,354                                $28
      other comprehensive income

remeasurements of defined benefit plans

  amount arising during the year                                                          ¥12,630                         ¥4,069                                $34

     before tax effects                                                                    12,630                          4,069                                 34

     tax effects                                                                            (5,088)                       (1,220)                               (10)

     remeasurements of defined benefit plans                                               ¥7,542                         ¥2,849                                $24

share of other comprehensive income of investments accounted for
  using the equity method

  amount arising during the year                                                             ¥373                          ¥(178)                               $(1)

     share of other comprehensive income of investments account-
                                                                                             ¥373                          ¥(178)                               $(1)
       ed for using the equity method




                                                                           132                                                dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                               contents



                                             financial report




31. earnings per share
(1) basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share

                                                                                                                                                        (u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                            fy2015                         fy2015
                                                                                             fy2014
                                                                                                        (nine months ended decem-      (nine months ended decem-
                                                                          (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                       ber 31, 2015)                  ber 31, 2015)

basic earnings per share (yen)                                                              ¥276.89                       ¥254.05                             $2.11

diluted earnings per share (yen)                                                            ¥276.84                       ¥254.03                             $2.11


(2) basis of calculating basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share

                                                                                                                                            (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                            fy2015                         fy2015
                                                                                             fy2014
                                                                                                        (nine months ended decem-      (nine months ended decem-
                                                                          (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                       ber 31, 2015)                  ber 31, 2015)

profit for the year used for calculation of basic earnings per share
  and diluted earnings per share

  profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent (millions
                                                                                            ¥79,846                       ¥72,653                              $602
    of yen)

     amounts not attributable to ordinary equity holders of the
                                                                                                   –                              –                                 –
      parent (millions of yen)

  profit for the year used for calculation of basic earnings per share
                                                                                             79,846                         72,653                               602
    (millions of yen)

     adjustment

       share-based payment held by associates (millions of yen)                                  (14)                            (5)                               (0)

  profit for the year used for calculation of diluted earnings per
                                                                                            ¥79,832                       ¥72,647                              $602
    share (millions of yen)

weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding used for
 the calculation of basic earnings per share and diluted earnings
 per share

  weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding used
   for the calculation of basic earnings per share (thousands of                            288,364                       285,984
   shares)

     effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares (thousands of
                                                                                                   –                              –
       shares)

  the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding
    used for the calculation of diluted earnings per share (thou-                           288,364                       285,984
    sands of shares)




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                 133

                                                                                          contents



                                                   financial report




32. financial instruments
(1) capital management
the group’s basic policy for capital management aims to enhance capital efficiency by the long-term improvement of its value through business growth, while
maintaining a sound financial structure.
  indicators for monitoring the capital management include total equity attributable to owners of the parent and underlying roe (ratio of underlying profit
for the year to total equity attributable to owners of the parent).
  the balances as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 are as follows:

                                                                                                                                     (millions of yen)       (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                         fy2014                             fy2015                         fy2015
                                                                                           (as of march 31, 2015)          (as of december 31, 2015)      (as of december 31, 2015)

total equity attributable to owners of the parent                                                    ¥1,080,364                         ¥1,068,216                            $8,857

underlying roe (%)                                                                                           9.4                                10.6

(note 1) for management purposes, the company had traditionally used total equity (attributable to owners of the parent) and roe (ratio of profit for the year to total equity
          attributable to owners of the parent). in order to manage capital efficiency on the basis of constant results adjusted for temporary factors, the company uses the
          underlying roe instead of roe beginning from the current fiscal year. roe for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2015 (financial reporting basis) and for the fiscal year
          ended december 31, 2015 (determined based on the results for the period from january 1, 2015 to december 31, 2015) are 8.1% and 7.7% respectively.

(note 2) the underlying profit for the year (attributable to owners of the parent), the numerator of underlying roe, is a kpi used to measure recurring profit attributable
          to owners of the parent which is calculated as profit for the year (attributable to owners of the parent) adjusted for adjustment items related to operating profit,
          revaluation of earnout liabilities / m&a related put-option liabilities, related tax effects, profit or loss attributable to non-controlling interests, and other one-
          off items. the underlying roe for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2015 is based on the financial data for the period from april 1, 2014 to march 31, 2015 while
          the underlying roe for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2015 is determined based on the results for the period from january 1, 2015 to december 31, 2015.
          reconciliation from profit for the year (attributable to owners of the parent) to underlying profit for the year (attributable to owners of the parent) is stated below.


                                                                                                                                     (millions of yen)       (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                                             fy2015                          fy2015
                                                                                                        fy2014
                                                                                                                             (from jaunary 1,2015 to         (from jaunary 1,2015 to
                                                                                     (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                                 december 31, 2015)              december 31, 2015)

profit for the year (attributable to owners of the parent)                                              ¥79,846                            ¥83,090                              $689

(adjustment items)

   adjustment items related to operating profit                                                             (367)                            32,226                               267

   revaluation of earnout liabilities / m&a related put-option
                                                                                                           2,682                              3,198                                  27
     liabilities

   tax expenses related to the above items and effects from tax
                                                                                                         11,097                              (5,167)                              (43)
     regulation changes

   others                                                                                                   (383)                                 40                                  0

underlying profit for the year (attributable to owners of parent)                                       ¥92,875                           ¥113,388                              $940
(note 3) total equity attributable to owners of the parent as of december 31, 2015 was used as the denominator to calculate the underlying roe for the fiscal year ended
          december 31, 2015 (determined based on the results for the period from january 1, 2015 to december 31, 2015). for underlying roe (or roe) for the fiscal year
          ended march 31, 2015 and prior years, total equity attributable to owners of the parent as of march 31 of each year was used.


(2) basic policy on risk management associated with financial instruments
the group is exposed to financial risks in the process of its business activities; and it manages risks based on a specific policy in order to avoid or reduce
these risks.
  derivative transactions for speculative purposes or short-term trading purposes are prohibited and limited to transactions based on the actual demands.




                                                                                         134                                                     dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                               contents



                                             financial report




(3) credit risk
a. credit risk management
trade receivables, such as notes and accounts receivable, are exposed to customer credit risk. the group aims to reduce these risks based on credit man-
agement rules and guidelines.
  the company conducts review of new counterparties and credit management based on credit management rules and guidelines. with respect to trade
receivables, based on accounting rules and guidelines, the relevant controlling departments in each business unit, together with the accounting department,
manage due dates and outstanding balances for each counterparty and regularly monitor the status of major counterparties to detect and reduce doubtful
receivables due to deteriorating financial conditions or other reasons in a timely manner.
  consolidated subsidiaries perform credit management and receivables management and have management systems in place that require reporting and
approval for certain significant transaction and events.
  the group does not have excess concentration of credit risk in specific counterparties.


b. maximum exposure to credit risk
with the exception of guarantee obligations, maximum exposure to the group’s credit risk is represented by the carrying amounts of financial assets in the
consolidated statement of financial position.
  maximum exposure to credit risk associated with guarantee obligations amounted to ¥1,761 million and ¥1,745 million ($14million) as of march 31, 2015
and december 31, 2015, respectively.


c. financial assets that are past due
the analysis of the age of trade and other receivables that are past due but not impaired as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 is as follows:

                                                                                                                     (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                              fy2014                        fy2015                          fy2015
                                                                                (as of march 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)       (as of december 31, 2015)

within 30 days                                                                             ¥102,218                       ¥116,612                               $967

over 30 days, within 60 days                                                                  38,029                         40,285                                334

over 60 days, within 90 days                                                                  18,994                         31,371                                260

over 90 days                                                                                  18,951                         18,421                                153

total                                                                                      ¥178,194                       ¥206,690                             $1,714



d. schedule of allowance for doubtful accounts
the schedule of allowance for doubtful account for each fiscal year is as follows:

                                                                                                                     (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                             fy2015                          fy2015
                                                                                             fy2014
                                                                                                         (nine months ended decem-       (nine months ended decem-
                                                                          (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                        ber 31, 2015)                   ber 31, 2015)

balance at the beginning of the year                                                         ¥18,992                       ¥20,073                               $166

addition                                                                                       3,596                          6,247                                 52

decrease (intended use)                                                                        (2,978)                          (489)                                (4)

decrease (reversal)                                                                              (707)                       (2,761)                               (23)

other                                                                                          1,169                         (1,476)                               (12)

balance at the end of the year                                                               ¥20,073                       ¥21,593                               $179




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                 135

                                                                                   contents



                                              financial report




(4) liquidity risk
a. liquidity risk management
the company manages liquidity risk by having the treasury division establish and update a finance plan based on information collected from each section
and also by maintaining liquidity based on cash flow status.
  the group raises working capital through internal funds, commercial paper and short-term borrowings.
  the group has established credit facilities (commitment lines) to ensure liquidity.


b. financial liability balance (including derivative financial instruments) by maturity
the financial liability balance (including derivative financial instruments) by maturity as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 is as follows:

fy2014: as of march 31, 2015
                                                                                                                                                                  (millions of yen)
                                                                                                due after 1      due after 2      due after 3      due after 4
                                                    carrying      contractual    due within                                                                             due after
                                                                                               year through    years through    years through    years through
                                                    amount          cash flow        1 year                                                                               5 years
                                                                                                     2 years          3 years          4 years          5 years

non-derivative financial liabilities
   trade and other payables                     ¥1,231,220       ¥1,231,220     ¥1,231,220               ¥–               ¥–               ¥–               ¥–                  ¥–
   contingent consideration on acquisition
                                                     64,790          64,790         28,058          15,669           10,816            6,850            3,207                 189
    and others
   bonds and borrowings                             409,618         428,100         79,538          40,533           11,577           53,063           63,209            180,178
     subtotal                                     1,705,629       1,724,111      1,338,816          56,203           22,393           59,913           66,416            180,367
derivative liabilities                               27,848          27,848          3,214           3,065            2,476            4,582            4,252             10,258
total                                           ¥1,733,477       ¥1,751,959     ¥1,342,030        ¥59,268          ¥24,869          ¥64,496          ¥70,669           ¥190,626

fy2015: as of december 31, 2015
                                                                                                                                                                  (millions of yen)
                                                                                                due after 1      due after 2      due after 3      due after 4
                                                    carrying      contractual    due within                                                                             due after
                                                                                               year through    years through    years through    years through
                                                    amount          cash flow        1 year                                                                               5 years
                                                                                                     2 years          3 years          4 years          5 years

non-derivative financial liabilities
   trade and other payables                     ¥1,207,347       ¥1,207,347     ¥1,207,347               ¥–               ¥–               ¥–               ¥–                 ¥–
   contingent consideration on acquisition
                                                    59,226           59,226        26,205            9,743            8,459            7,121            3,708              3,987
    and others
   bonds and borrowings                            353,783         366,499         70,352            5,341          53,268           60,202           81,958              95,375
     subtotal                                    1,620,357        1,633,073      1,303,905         15,084           61,728           67,323           85,667              99,363
derivative liabilities                              34,971           34,971          4,935           3,345            5,322            4,196            4,558             12,612
total                                           ¥1,655,328       ¥1,668,044     ¥1,308,841        ¥18,429          ¥67,051          ¥71,520          ¥90,225          ¥111,976

fy2015: as of december 31, 2015
                                                                                                                                                       (millions of u.s. dollars)




                                                   $10,010         $10,010        $10,010                $–               $–               $–               $–                 $–
                                                        491             491             217             81               70               59               31                  33
                                                      2,933           3,039             583             44              442              499              680                 791
                                                    13,435           13,540        10,811              125              512              558              710                 824
                                                        290             290               41            28               44               35               38                 105
                                                   $13,725         $13,830        $10,852            $153             $556             $593             $748                $928




c. undrawn committed facilities
undrawn committed facilities amounted to ¥310,423 million and ¥291,313 million ($2,415 million) as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015, respectively.
  the undrawn committed facilities include commitment lines of credit, overdraft lines of credit and commercial paper facilities.




                                                                                  136                                                     dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                  contents



                                                financial report




(5) foreign currency risk
a. foreign currency risk management
monetary receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies are exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations risks. the company uses forward foreign
exchange contracts to hedge its foreign exchange fluctuation risks identified for each currency in each month.
  in addition, forward foreign exchange contracts and others are used to hedge foreign currency transactions that exceed a specified amount in accordance
with accounting rules and guidelines.
  some of the consolidated subsidiaries use forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge significant foreign exchange fluctuation risks.


b. foreign currency derivatives to which hedge accounting is applied
the details of foreign currency derivatives to which hedge accounting is applied as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 are as follows:

                                                                                                                (millions of yen)                          (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                      fy2014                                     fy2015                                                  fy2015
                                                        (as of march 31, 2015)                  (as of december 31, 2015)                               (as of december 31, 2015)

                                     contract                                      contract                                                 contract
                                                   over 1 year      fair value                  over 1 year            fair value                       over 1 year        fair value
                                      amount                                        amount                                                   amount

foreign exchange contracts           ¥43,077         ¥27,558        ¥19,196       ¥68,548        ¥51,893              ¥17,423                 $568          $430              $144

option contracts                        2,371               –            112             –                  –                  –                   –              –                –


the foreign exchange contracts above are designated as cash flow hedges.
  the amounts either included in or deducted from the initial cost of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability as a result of execution of a highly prob-
able forecasted transaction in which an acquisition or incurrence of such non-financial asset or liability is designated as a hedged item are ¥2,928 million
(deduction) and ¥1,986 million ($16 million) (deduction) for the year ended march 31, 2015 and for the nine months ended december 31, 2015, respectively.


c. foreign currency sensitivity analysis
with respect to financial instruments held by the group, in cases where the functional currency (yen) increases by 1% in value against the us dollar or euro
assuming all other variables remain unchanged, the effect on profit before tax as of each fiscal year end is as follows:
  the impact from the translation of functional currency-denominated financial assets as well as assets and liabilities of foreign operations into yen is not
included.
                                                                                                                                    (millions of yen)      (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                 fy2014                                  fy2015                          fy2015
                                                                                   (as of march 31, 2015)               (as of december 31, 2015)       (as of december 31, 2015)

us dollars                                                                                         ¥278                                       ¥368                               $3

euros                                                                                                 (9)                                         (3)                             (0)


(6) interest rate risk
a. interest rate risk management
a portion of the group’s borrowings is issued with floating interest rates and is exposed to interest rate fluctuation risk. for interest rate fluctuation risks asso-
ciated with borrowings, interest expenses are fixed using interest rate swap contracts.


b. interest rate derivatives to which hedge accounting is applied
the details of interest rate derivatives to which hedge accounting is applied as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 are as follows:

                                                                                                                (millions of yen)                          (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                      fy2014                                     fy2015                                                  fy2015
                                                        (as of march 31, 2015)                  (as of december 31, 2015)                               (as of december 31, 2015)

                                     contract                                      contract                                                 contract
                                                   over 1 year      fair value                  over 1 year            fair value                       over 1 year        fair value
                                      amount                                        amount                                                   amount

interest rate swap contracts       ¥236,751        ¥236,751          ¥(1,840)    ¥230,246       ¥230,246                ¥1,536              $1,909        $1,909                $13


the interest rate swap contracts above are designated as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges.
  gains or losses on hedging instruments designated as fair value hedges amounted to ¥272 million for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2015. with respect
to the nine months ended december 31, 2015, it is not applicable.
  the gains or losses associated with hedged items are approximately the same as the gains or losses associated with hedging instruments.



dentsu integrated report 2016                                                    137

                                                                                      contents



                                                financial report




(7) the carrying amount and fair value of financial instruments
the breakdown of the carrying amount and fair value of financial instruments as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 is as follows:
  the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities measured at amortized cost approximates their carrying amount, except for bonds and long-term
borrowings.

                                                                                                               (millions of yen)                 (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                          fy2014                                      fy2015                                    fy2015
                                                            (as of march 31, 2015)                   (as of december 31, 2015)                 (as of december 31, 2015)

                                               carrying amount          fair value         carrying amount             fair value    carrying amount            fair value

bonds                                                ¥12,368            ¥13,376                         ¥–                    ¥–                  $–                   $–

long-term borrowings                                 358,035            362,682                  321,592               326,130                 2,666               2,704
(note) current portion that is scheduled for repayment and redemption within one year is included.


the fair values of bonds are determined by discounting the total of the principal and interest using an interest rate for which the remaining period to remain-
ing until the maturity date and credit risks are taken into account.
  the fair value of long-term borrowings is determined by discounting the total of the principal and interest by the interest rate assumed in a case where the
same loan is newly made.
  the fair value hierarchy of bonds and long-term borrowings is categorized within level 3.


(8) fair value hierarchy of financial instruments
financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis after initial recognition are categorized into the three levels of the fair value hierarchy accord-
ing to observability and significance of input used in measurements.
  the fair value hierarchy is defined as follows:
    level 1: fair value measured at the quoted price in the active market
    level 2: fair value that is measured using the observable price other than categorized in level 1 directly or indirectly
    level 3: fair value that is measured based on unobservable inputs
  when multiple inputs are used to measure fair value, fair value levels are determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the entire fair
value measurement.
  transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are deemed to have occurred at the beginning of each quarter.
  there are no transfers between level 1 and level 2 for the year ended march 31, 2015 and for the nine months ended december 31, 2015.

fy2014: as of march 31, 2015
                                                                                                                                                         (millions of yen)
                                                                                 level 1                     level 2                 level 3                         total

financial assets
  derivative assets                                                                   ¥–                  ¥21,515                        ¥–                      ¥21,515
  equity securities                                                            174,871                            –                  14,124                      188,996
  other                                                                              500                      2,608                   4,153                         7,262
total                                                                         ¥175,371                    ¥24,124                   ¥18,278                    ¥217,774
financial liabilities
  derivative liabilities                                                              ¥–                     ¥4,539                 ¥23,308                      ¥27,848
  other                                                                                –                          –                  64,790                       64,790
total                                                                                 ¥–                     ¥4,539                 ¥88,099                      ¥92,638




                                                                                     138                                              dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                  contents



                                              financial report




fy2015: as of december 31, 2015
                                                                                                                                                       (millions of yen)
                                                                             level 1                    level 2                    level 3                         total

financial assets
  derivative assets                                                              ¥–                   ¥22,519                          ¥–                     ¥22,519
  equity securities                                                        172,235                           –                    13,228                      185,463
  other                                                                        513                      2,507                      6,756                         9,777
total                                                                    ¥172,749                     ¥25,026                    ¥19,984                    ¥217,760
financial liabilities
  derivative liabilities                                                         ¥–                    ¥3,777                    ¥31,194                      ¥34,971
  other                                                                           –                          –                    59,226                        59,226
total                                                                            ¥–                    ¥3,777                    ¥90,421                      ¥94,198


fy2015: as of december 31, 2015
                                                                                                                                               (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                             level 1                    level 2                    level 3                         total

financial assets
  derivative assets                                                              $–                      $187                          $–                         $187
  equity securities                                                          1,428                           –                       110                         1,538
  other                                                                           4                         21                         56                            81
total                                                                       $1,432                       $207                       $166                        $1,805
financial liabilities
  derivative liabilities                                                         $–                       $31                       $259                          $290
  other                                                                           –                          –                       491                            491
total                                                                            $–                       $31                       $750                          $781


the fair values of interest rate swap contracts and foreign exchange contracts included in derivative assets and derivative liabilities are categorized within
level 2 as they are valuated using price estimates obtained from financial institutions or observable market data.
  in addition, the fair values for some of the derivative financial instruments included in derivative liabilities are categorized within level 3 as they are valuated
based on the discounted cash flow method using unobservable inputs.
  the fair values of stocks included in equity securities and other (financial assets) for which active markets exist are categorized within level 1 as they are
determined based on market prices.
  for stocks in which active markets do not exist, the stocks whose fair values are measured using observable market data are categorized within level 2, while
stocks whose fair values are measured based mainly on market approaches using unobservable inputs are categorized within level 3.
  significant unobservable inputs mainly include the price/net asset value multiples, and fair value increases (decreases) based on the increase (decrease) of
the price/net asset value multiples.
  the price/net asset value multiples used at march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015, are 0.73 and 0.73, respectively.
  the fair values of other (financial liabilities) are categorized within level 3 as they are valuated based on the discounted cash flow method using unobservable
inputs.
  the fair values of assets and liabilities categorized within level 3 are measured using asset and liability valuation methods determined by the department
in charge in accordance with fair value measurement valuation policies and procedures. fair value measurement results are approved by the appropriate
personnel in charge.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                    139

                                                                                         contents



                                                  financial report




the schedule of financial instruments categorized within level 3 for each fiscal year is as follows:

                                                                                                                                    (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                                          fy2015                            fy2015
                                                                                                       fy2014
                                                                                                                      (nine months ended decem-         (nine months ended decem-
                                                                                    (year ended march 31, 2015)
financial assets                                                                                                                     ber 31, 2015)                     ber 31, 2015)

balance at the beginning of the year                                                                   ¥44,020                            ¥18,278                              $152

other comprehensive income (note 1)                                                                        660                              (1,415)                               (12)

purchases                                                                                                4,865                               3,908                                 32

sales or settlements                                                                                     (2,192)                            (4,253)                               (35)

transfers out of level 3 (note 2)                                                                      (29,313)                               (354)                                (3)

other                                                                                                      238                               3,821                                 32

balance at the end of the year                                                                         ¥18,278                            ¥19,984                              $166


                                                                                                                                    (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                                          fy2015                            fy2015
                                                                                                       fy2014
                                                                                                                      (nine months ended decem-         (nine months ended decem-
                                                                                    (year ended march 31, 2015)
financial liabilities                                                                                                                ber 31, 2015)                     ber 31, 2015)

balance at the beginning of the year                                                                   ¥72,209                            ¥88,099                              $730

profit or loss (note 3)                                                                                  2,986                               1,849                                 15

purchases                                                                                               30,915                             28,319                                235

sales or settlements                                                                                   (22,355)                           (25,559)                              (212)

other                                                                                                    4,342                              (2,287)                               (19)

balance at the end of the year                                                                         ¥88,099                            ¥90,421                              $750

(note 1) “other comprehensive income” is associated with financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income and included in “net change in
          financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income.”
(note 2) “transfers out of level 3” recognized for the year ended march 31, 2015 and for the nine months ended december 31, 2015 are due to investees listed on
          exchanges.
(note 3) “profit or loss” is associated with financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and included in finance costs.
           rofit or loss arising from financial instruments held at fiscal year end amounted to ¥2,986 million and ¥1,849 million ($15 million) for the year ended march 31, 2015
          p
          and for the nine months ended december 31, 2015, respectively.




                                                                                        140                                                     dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                               contents



                                            financial report




33. related parties
(1) remuneration for the company’s directors
remuneration for the company’s directors for each fiscal year is as follows:

                                                                                                                    (millions of yen)        (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                                            fy2015                          fy2015
                                                                                             fy2014
                                                                                                        (nine months ended decem-       (nine months ended decem-
                                                                          (year ended march 31, 2015)
                                                                                                                       ber 31, 2015)                   ber 31, 2015)

remuneration and bonuses                                                                       ¥711                           ¥469                                 $4


(2) major subsidiaries
the company’s significant subsidiaries are as follows:


                                                                                                                                           ownership percentage of
company name                                                             location
                                                                                                                                                   voting rights (%)

dentsu east japan inc.                                                   tokyo, japan                                                                          100.0
dentsu west japan inc.                                                   osaka, japan                                                                          100.0
dentsu kyushu inc.                                                       fukuoka, japan                                                                        100.0
dentsu hokkaido inc.                                                     sapporo, japan                                                                        100.0
dentsu meitetsu communications inc.                                      nagoya, japan                                                                           50.0
the goal inc.                                                            tokyo, japan                                                                          100.0
dentsu ad-gear inc.                                                      tokyo, japan                                                                            66.7
dentsu young & rubicam inc.                                              tokyo, japan                                                                            51.0
cyber communications inc.                                                tokyo, japan                                                                          100.0
da search & link inc.                                                    tokyo, japan                                                                            55.0
carat japan inc.                                                         tokyo, japan                                                                          100.0
dentsu tec inc.                                                          tokyo, japan                                                                          100.0
information services international-dentsu, ltd.                          tokyo, japan                                                                            61.8
dentsu works inc.                                                        tokyo, japan                                                                          100.0
dentsu aegis network ltd.                                                london, the united kingdom                                                            100.0
dentsu aegis london ltd.                                                 london, the united kingdom                                                            100.0
dentsu aegis network france sas                                          paris, france                                                                         100.0
dentsu mcgarry bowen,llc                                                 new york, the united states                                                           100.0
aegis international ltd.                                                 london, the united kingdom                                                            100.0
portman square us holdings ltd.                                          london, the united kingdom                                                            100.0
aegis group participations ltd.                                          london, the united kingdom                                                            100.0
aegis toriton ltd.                                                       london, the united kingdom                                                            100.0
dentsu aegis network central europe holding gmbh                         wiesbaden, federal republic of germany                                                100.0
dentsu aegis network central europe gmbh                                 wiesbaden, federal republic of germany                                                100.0
dentsu aegis network australia holdings pty ltd.                         sydney, australia                                                                     100.0
dentsu aegis (shanghai) investment co., ltd.                             shanghai, china                                                                       100.0
aegis media pacific ltd.                                                 london, the united kingdom                                                            100.0
360i llc                                                                 atlanta, the united states                                                            100.0
beijing dentsu advertising co., ltd.                                     beijing, china                                                                          70.0




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                  141

                                                                             contents



                                            financial report




34. contingent liabilities
the contingent liabilities as of march 31, 2015 and december 31, 2015 are as follows:
guarantees of loans and other liabilities

                                                                                                                   (millions of yen)     (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                            fy2014                        fy2015                        fy2015
                                                                              (as of march 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)     (as of december 31, 2015)

liabilities on guarantees resulting from a loan scheme for housing
                                                                                              ¥657                           ¥492                              $4
   funds for employees

liabilities for guarantees of bank loans and others                                          1,104                          1,252                              10

total                                                                                       ¥1,761                         ¥1,745                             $14



35. non-cash transactions
in the nine months ended december 31, 2015, the company dissolved a retirement benefit trust for corporate pension fund plans and established a retirement
benefit trust for retirement lump-sum payment plans. as a result, other non-current assets and liabilities for retirement benefits each decreased by ¥12,787
million ($106 million) each.


36. subsequent events
not applicable.




                                                                            142                                                dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                 contents



                                              financial report




37. consolidated statement of income (2015 january–december)
consolidated statement of income assuming that the fiscal year of the group had been the twelve-month period from january 1, 2015 to december 31, 2015
is as follows:

                                                                                                               (millions of yen)              (millions of u.s. dollars)
                                                                                                       from january 1, 2015 to                from january 1, 2015 to
                                                                                                           december 31, 2015                      december 31, 2015

   (turnover (note 1))                                                                                           ¥4,990,854                                  $41,380
   revenue                                                                                                           818,566                                    6,787
     cost                                                                                                              56,570                                      469
   gross profit                                                                                                      761,996                                    6,318
     selling, general and administrative expenses                                                                    636,268                                    5,275
     other income                                                                                                      15,455                                      128
     other expenses                                                                                                    12,970                                      108
   operating profit                                                                                                  128,212                                    1,063
     share of results of associates                                                                                     4,515                                       37
   profit before interest and tax                                                                                    132,727                                    1,100
     finance income                                                                                                     6,125                                       51
     finance costs                                                                                                     12,114                                      100
   profit before tax                                                                                                 126,739                                    1,051
     income tax expense                                                                                                37,637                                      312
   profit for the year                                                                                               ¥89,101                                     $739


profit attributable to:
   owners of the parent                                                                                              ¥83,090                                     $689
   non-controlling interests                                                                                           ¥6,011                                      $50


earnings per share                                                                                                       (yen)                         (u.s. dollars)
   basic earnings per share                                                                                          ¥289.95                                    $2.40
   diluted earnings per share                                                                                        ¥289.92                                    $2.40


reconciliation from operating profit to underlying operating profit                                            (millions of yen)              (millions of u.s. dollars)

                                                                                                       from january 1, 2015 to                from january 1, 2015 to
                                                                                                           december 31, 2015                      december 31, 2015

operating profit                                                                                                   ¥128,212                                    $1,063
   amortization of intangible assets incurred in acquisitions                                                          22,798                                      189
   other adjusting items (selling, general and administrative expenses)                                                 6,225                                       52
   other adjusting items (other income)                                                                                (5,180)                                     (43)
   other adjusting items (other expenses)                                                                               8,382                                       69
underlying operating profit                                                                                        ¥160,438                                    $1,330
(note 1) turnover represents the total amount billed and billable to clients by the group, net of discounts, vat and other sales-related taxes.
	disclosure of turnover information is not required under ifrs; however, it is voluntarily disclosed in the consolidated statement of income since management has
          concluded that the information is useful for users of the financial statements.
(note 2) for the definition of underlying operating profit, please refer to “3. significant accounting policies (20) underlying operating profit.”




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                   143

                   contents



financial report




                   144        dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                   contents



                                financial report




dentsu integrated report 2016                      145

                                      contents



                corporate data




c
    o
        r
            p
                   o
                         r
                                 a
                                     t
                                           e


                                                 d
                                                     a
                                                         t
                                                             a




                                     146                         dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                         contents



                                                                  corporate data




subsidiaries and affiliates


dentsu conducts its business together with its subsidiaries and affiliates. as of december 31, 2015, the dentsu group
includes 760 consolidated subsidiaries and 58 affiliated companies accounted for by the equity method.



consolidated subsidiaries

dentsu east japan inc.                                                                         carat japan co., ltd.
geographic area: japan                                                                         geographic area: japan
equity held by dentsu: 100.0%                                                                  equity held by dentsu: 100.0%
description of business: advertising in the kanto and tohoku regions as well as                description of business: media communication company
shizuoka and niigata prefectures
                                                                                               dentsu tec inc.
dentsu west japan inc.                                                                         geographic area: japan
geographic area: japan                                                                         equity held by dentsu: 100.0%
equity held by dentsu: 100.0%                                                                  description of business: planning and
description of business: advertising in the chugoku region and shikoku as well as              production for sales promotions, events, commercials, print, etc.
hyogo, ishikawa, fukui and toyama prefectures

                                                                                               information services international-dentsu, ltd.*² *³
dentsu kyushu inc.
                                                                                               geographic area: japan
geographic area: japan
                                                                                               equity held by dentsu: 61.9%
equity held by dentsu: 100.0%
                                                                                               equity held indirectly: 0.0%
description of business: advertising in kyushu
                                                                                               description of business: information systems building; software sales and support
                                                                                               for various business areas
dentsu hokkaido inc.
geographic area: japan
equity held by dentsu: 100.0%
                                                                                               dentsu works inc.
description of business: advertising in hokkaido                                               geographic area: japan
                                                                                               equity held by dentsu: 100.0%
dentsu meitetsu communications inc.*¹                                                          description of business: environment-related consulting, building management,
                                                                                               real estate services and business consulting services
geographic area: japan
equity held by dentsu: 50.0%
description of business: total advertising services, specializing in promotion and ooh         dentsu aegis network ltd.*¹
                                                                                               geographic area: united kingdom
the goal inc.                                                                                  equity held by dentsu: 100.0%
geographic area: japan                                                                         description of business: headquarters of the dentsu group’s global business,
equity held by dentsu: 100.0%                                                                  which oversees operations outside of japan
description of business: fashion and accessories industry advertising
                                                                                               dentsu aegis london ltd.
dentsu ad-gear inc.                                                                            geographic area: united kingdom
geographic area: japan                                                                         equity held by dentsu: 100.0%
equity held by dentsu: 66.7%                                                                   equity held indirectly: 100.0%
description of business: advertising firm specializing in out-of-home media and store
promotions
                                                                                               dentsu aegis network france sas*¹
                                                                                               geographic area: france
dentsu young & rubicam inc.
                                                                                               equity held by dentsu: 100.0%
geographic area: japan
                                                                                               equity held indirectly: 100.0%
equity held by dentsu: 51.0%
description of business: advertising company established by dentsu and young &
rubicam                                                                                        dentsu mcgarry bowen, llc*¹
                                                                                               geographic area: u.s.a.
cyber communications inc.                                                                      equity held by dentsu: 100.0%
geographic area: japan                                                                         equity held indirectly: 100.0%
equity held by dentsu: 100.0%
equity held indirectly: 100.0%                                                                 aegis international ltd.*¹
description of business: internet-based advertising media rep                                  geographic area: united kingdom
                                                                                               equity held by dentsu: 100.0%
da search & link inc.                                                                          equity held indirectly: 100.0%
geographic area: japan
equity held by dentsu: 55.0%                                                                   portman square us holdings ltd.*¹
equity held indirectly: 55.0%
                                                                                               geographic area: united kingdom
description of business: internet advertising
                                                                                               equity held by dentsu: 100.0%
                                                                                               equity held indirectly: 100.0%




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                            147

                                                                             contents



                                                            corporate data




                                                                                   affiliated companies accounted for by the equity method

aegis group participations ltd.*¹                                                  video research ltd.
geographic area: united kingdom                                                    geographic area: japan
equity held by dentsu: 100.0%                                                      equity held by dentsu: 34.2%
equity held indirectly: 100.0%                                                     description of business: tv audience rating surveys, radio audience rating surveys
                                                                                   and other research
aegis toriton ltd.
geographic area: united kingdom                                                    d2c inc.
equity held by dentsu: 100.0%                                                      geographic area: japan
equity held indirectly: 100.0%                                                     equity held by dentsu: 46.0%
                                                                                   equity held indirectly: 10.0%
dentsu aegis network central europe holding gmbh                                   description of business: advertising for i-mode and other mobile platforms
geographic area: germany
equity held by dentsu: 100.0%
                                                                                   kakaku.com, inc.*² *³
equity held indirectly: 100.0%                                                     geographic area: japan
                                                                                   equity held by dentsu: 16.0%
dentsu aegis network central europe gmbh                                           description of business: an internet media company that operates the customer
                                                                                   procurement support site kakaku.com, word of mouth restaurant and gourmet guide
geographic area: germany
                                                                                   site tabelog, and other sites
equity held by dentsu: 100.0%
equity held indirectly: 100.0%
                                                                                   and 55 other companies

dentsu aegis network australia holdings pty ltd.*¹
geographic area: australia                                                         *1 it is a specified subsidiary.
equity held by dentsu: 100.0%                                                      *2 although dentsu’s equity is less than 20%, because dentsu can have
equity held indirectly: 100.0%                                                        significant impact on its business policy decisions, it is considered an
                                                                                      affiliated company.
dentsu aegis (shanghai) investment co., ltd.                                       *3 it is a company which submits annual securities report.
geographic area: china
equity held by dentsu: 100.0%
equity held indirectly: 100.0%

aegis media pacific ltd.
geographic area: united kingdom
equity held by dentsu: 100.0%
equity held indirectly: 100.0%

360i llc*1
geographic area: u.s.a.
equity held by dentsu: 100.0%
equity held indirectly: 100.0%

beijing dentsu advertising co., ltd.
geographic area: china
equity held by dentsu: 70.0%

and 731 other companies



*1 although dentsu’s ownership is 50% or less, the company is considered a
   subsidiary because dentsu exerts effective control.
*2 it is a company which submits annual securities report.
*3 it is a specified subsidiary.




                                                                             148                                                   dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                                contents



                                                         corporate data




history


1901     hoshiro mitsunaga establishes japan advertising ltd. and telegraphic service co. (currently known as dentsu).

1913     dentsu contributes to the establishment of the japan newspaper publishers & editors association.

1951     dentsu establishes the radio division at its head office and local offices. commercial radio broadcasting begins in japan.

1953     dentsu establishes the radio and television division at its head office and local offices.

         commercial television broadcasting begins.

1955     the corporate name is changed to dentsu inc.

1959     dentsu establishes the marketing department and promotes the introduction of marketing.

         dentsu establishes its new york office.

1964     dentsu contributes to the support of the tokyo olympic games.

1970     dentsu contributes to the support of osaka expo ’70.

1974     the us-based magazine advertising age ranks dentsu the no. 1 advertising agency worldwide in terms of billings(calendar 1973).

1980     dentsu establishes its beijing office in china ahead of all other overseas advertising agencies.

1984     dentsu contributes to the support of the los angeles olympic games.

         dentsu and us-based young & rubicam jointly establish dyr, an international service network.

1989     dentsu’s net sales exceed one trillion yen in the fiscal year ended march 31, 1989.

1996     dentsu contributes to the establishment of cyber communications inc. (cci), japan’s first internet advertising agency.

1997     the animated film princess mononoke—a co-production between dentsu, tokuma shoten, and others—becomes a big hit.

1998     dentsu contributes to the support of the nagano winter olympic games.

2000     dentsu establishes the bcom3 group with the us-based firms the leo group and the macmanus group.

2001     dentsu lists its shares on the first section of the tokyo stock. exchange (tse: 4324). dentsu commemorates its 100th anniversary.

2002     dentsu contributes to the support of the 2002 fifa world cup korea/japantm.

         the bcom3 group merges with the french company publicis groupe s.a. dentsu acquires a 15% stake in the newly formed group.

         dentsu acquires capital in publicis groupe.

2004     dentsu implements a stock split (1:2).

2007     dentsu’s consolidated net sales reach two trillion yen in the fiscal year ended march 31, 2007.

2008     dentsu holdings usa, inc. acquires mcgarrybowen, llc of the united states.

         dentsu repurchases shares of approximately 60 billion yen.

2009     dentsu implements a stock split (1:100).

2010     dentsu establishes dentsu digital holdings.

2012     dentsu terminates strategic alliance and other agreements with publicis groupe s.a. and sells to publicis a block of the shares of publicis held by dentsu.

2013     dentsu acquires aegis group plc and establishes a new global operating unit, dentsu aegis network, in london.

         the dentsu group medium-term management plan “dentsu 2017 and beyond” was released.

         dentsu raises funds through a public offering.

2014     dentsu is appointed as marketing agency by the tokyo organising committee of the olympic and paralympic games.

2015     dentsu repurchases shares worth approximately 20 billion yen.

         the dentsu group medium-term csr strategy 2020 is released.

2016     dentsu digital inc. is incorporated.




dentsu integrated report 2016                                                  149

                                                              contents



                                             corporate data




board members/management
(as of march 30, 2016)




board members                                                       executive officers

representative director                                             president & ceo
     tadashi ishii                                                       tadashi ishii


director                                                            senior executive vice president & cfo
     shoichi nakamoto                                                    shoichi nakamoto
     yoshio takada
     tim andree                                                     executive vice president
     kunihiro matsushima                                                 yoshio takada
                                                                         tim andree
director / audit and supervisory committee members
     kenichi kato                                                   senior vice presidents
     atsuko toyama (outside director)                                    naoki tani
     toshiaki hasegawa (outside director)                                akira tonouchi
     kentaro koga (outside director)                                     toshihiro yamamoto
                                                                         kazufumi hattori
                                                                         yasuo motoi
                                                                         wataru mochizuki
                                                                         jerry buhlmann
                                                                         hiroaki sano


                                                                    executive officers
                                                                         kunihiro matsushima
                                                                         tsuneo ogasawara
                                                                         nobuyuki tohya
                                                                         tsuyoshi iwashita
                                                                         seiji ito
                                                                         yuichi ohkubo
                                                                         yoshiaki suzuki
                                                                         keiichi maeda
                                                                         kiyoshi nakamura
                                                                         yoshiharu sengoku
                                                                         takaki hibino
                                                                         toshiya ohyama
                                                                         norio kamijo
                                                                         takashi yagi
                                                                         masahiko hibi
                                                                         motohiro yamagishi
                                                                         yutaka ishikawa
                                                                         misao toyoda




                                                              150                                      dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                        contents



                                                       corporate data




information for shareholders                                                  share information
(as of july 1, 2016)                                                          (as of december 31, 2015)




corporate headquarters                                                        breakdown of shareholders by type
1-8-1, higashi-shimbashi, minato-ku, tokyo 105-7001, japan                                                                                     percentage of
                                                                                                        number of                 number of
                                                                                                                                             total number of
phone: +81-3-6216-5111                                                                                shareholders               shares held
                                                                                                                                                shares issued
                                                                              japanese financial
                                                                                                                   81             80,961,778               28.07
                                                                              institutions
contact info
                                                                              japanese securities
investor relations department,                                                                                     32              6,497,854                2.25
                                                                              firms
executive office                                                              other japanese
                                                                                                                  569             77,571,265               26.90
                                                                              corporations
                                                                              japanese individuals
phone: +81-3-6216-8015                                                        and others (including          30,675               41,313,061               14.32
email: irmail@dentsu.co.jp                                                    treasury stock)
                                                                              foreign institutions
                                                                                                                  571             82,066,043               28.45
                                                                              and individuals
stock exchange listing
                                                                              total                          31,928              288,410,000              100.00
tokyo stock exchange, first section
securities code: 4324


capital
                                                                              major shareholders
74,609.81 million yen
                                                                                                                                            percentage of total
                                                                                                                                 number of
                                                                              major shareholders                                             number of shares
                                                                                                                                shares held
                                                                                                                                                        issued
total number of shares issued
                                                                              the master trust bank of japan, ltd. (trust
288,410,000                                                                                                                      26,082,800                 9.15
                                                                              accounts)

                                                                              kyodo news                                         18,988,800                 6.66
general meeting of shareholders
the ordinary general meeting of shareholders is held in tokyo in              jiji press, ltd.                                   17,228,680                 6.04

march each year.
                                                                              japan trustee services bank, ltd.
                                                                                                                                 16,135,900                 5.66
                                                                              (trust accounts)

transfer agent                                                                state street bank and trust company
                                                                                                                                 10,407,314                 3.65
                                                                              505001
the mitsubishi ufj trust and banking corporation
                                                                              group employees’ stockholding
7-10-11, higashisuna, koto-ku, tokyo 137-8081, japan                                                                              6,186,552                 2.17
                                                                              association

                                                                              mizuho bank, ltd.                                   5,000,000                 1.75
internet address
http://www.dentsu.com                                                         yoshida hideo memorial foundation                   4,984,808                 1.75


                                                                              recruit holdings co., ltd.                          4,929,900                 1.73


                                                                              the bank of new york mellon sa/nv 10                4,167,103                 1.46


                                                                              * the number of shares held by each trust bank includes shares related to trust
                                                                                services.
                                                                              * shareholding ratio is calculated excluding treasury shares (3,270,939 shares).




dentsu integrated report 2016                                           151

                                                                            contents



                                                   corporate data




fiscal year 2015 under review


investment stock held for reasons other than pure investment
                                                                    balance sheet amount
company                                    number of shares                                                                purpose of holding
                                                                          (millions of yen)

recruit holdings co., ltd.                       30,000,000                        106,800     to maintain and strengthen business relationship


digital garage, inc.                              3,300,000                            7,167   to maintain and strengthen business relationship


tokyo broadcasting system holdings, inc.          2,560,000                            4,940   to maintain and strengthen business relationship


asahi group holdings, ltd.                          918,400                            3,489   to maintain and strengthen business relationship


tv asahi holdings corporation                     1,434,000                            3,011   to maintain and strengthen business relationship


sky perfect jsat holdings, inc.                   4,059,400                            2,776   to maintain and strengthen business relationship


toho co., ltd.                                      808,900                            2,717   to maintain and strengthen business relationship


lion corporation                                  1,794,000                            2,052   to maintain and strengthen business relationship


ezaki glicoco.,ltd.                                 250,325                            1,639   to maintain and strengthen business relationship


toei company, ltd.                                1,300,000                            1,543   to maintain and strengthen business relationship


yakult honsha co., ltd.                             258,600                            1,541   to maintain and strengthen business relationship


euglena co., ltd.                                   788,400                            1,430   to maintain and strengthen business relationship


seibu holdings inc.                                 544,000                            1,349   to maintain and strengthen business relationship


rohto pharmaceutical co.,ltd.                       520,000                            1,259   to maintain and strengthen business relationship


morinaga & co.,ltd.                               1,901,000                            1,216   to maintain and strengthen business relationship


shochiku co., ltd.                                1,000,000                            1,155   to maintain and strengthen business relationship


central japan railway company                        50,000                            1,080   to maintain and strengthen business relationship


meiji holdings co., ltd.                            102,400                            1,029   to maintain and strengthen business relationship


pilot corporation                                   200,000                             999    to maintain and strengthen business relationship


tv tokyo holdings corporation                       390,000                             891    to maintain and strengthen business relationship


ajinomoto co., inc.                                 299,000                             860    to maintain and strengthen business relationship


mitsubishi ufj financial group, inc.              1,125,900                             852    to maintain and strengthen business relationship




                                                                          152                               dentsu integrated report 2016

                                                                            contents



                                                   corporate data




stocks held in trust or other legal entity while retaining voting rights or voting instruction rights
                                                                    balance sheet amount
company                                    number of shares                                                            purpose of holding
                                                                          (millions of yen)

tokyo broadcasting system holdings, inc.          9,310,500                         17,969              to instruct exercise of voting rights


kao corporation                                   2,328,000                         14,561              to instruct exercise of voting rights


kddi corporation                                  2,927,400                            9,233            to instruct exercise of voting rights


fuji media holdings, inc.                         4,650,000                            6,658            to instruct exercise of voting rights


wowow inc.                                        1,400,800                            4,279            to instruct exercise of voting rights


tv asahi holdings corporation                     1,271,000                            2,669            to instruct exercise of voting rights


seven & i holdingsco., ltd.                         324,000                            1,798            to instruct exercise of voting rights


shiseido co., ltd.                                  682,000                            1,724            to instruct exercise of voting rights


yamato holdings co., ltd.                           627,000                            1,615            to instruct exercise of voting rights


daiichi sankyo co., ltd.                            398,500                            1,000            to instruct exercise of voting rights


mizuho financial group, inc.                      3,914,000                             953             to instruct exercise of voting rights




dentsu integrated report 2016                                             153

                                                                                                contents



                                                                     corporate data




third-party evaluation and share price changes


the dentsu group actively engages in environmental preservation and other corporate sustainability
activities. receiving high recognition for such activities, dentsu received a score of 94c from the
carbon disclosure project (cdp)*¹ in 2015.
    moreover, in recent years, socially responsible investment,*² which takes into account not only
financial aspects such as corporate revenue and growth prospects, but also ethics, legal compliance,
efforts to tackle environmental, and other issues has been gaining attention in investment trust
management. dentsu’s csr efforts received high recognition from sri rating agencies as well, being
included in the morningstar socially responsible investment index*³ (ms-sri) from january 2015 and
the msci global sustainability indexes*4 in june 2015.

*1 non-profit organization that institutional investors are collaboratively working with on a project to request that companies disclose
   their strategies to combat climate change and specific information on emission amounts of greenhouse gases.
*2 socially responsible investment is an investment method that aims for stable revenue by evaluating and selecting companies based on
   social, ethical, and environmental aspects, such as legal compliance, employment relations, human rights issues, consumer protection,
   and contribution to society and community, in addition to conventional investment criteria based on financial analysis.
*3 the morningstar socially responsible investment index (ms-sri) is the first socially responsible investment index in japan. morningstar
   japan k.k. selects 150 companies in japan by assessing their social responsibility and converts their stock prices into the index.
   https://www.morningstar.co.jp/sri/index.htm (japanese only)
*4 an index developed by morgan stanley capital international (msci) in the united states that selects companies that are particularly
   outstanding in environmental, social, and governance (esg) assessments. as of june 30, 2015, 1,999 companies (of which 148 are
   japanese companies) are included.
   the inclusion of dentsu inc. in any msci index, and the use of msci logos, trademarks, service marks or index names herin, do not constitute a
   sponsorship, endorsement or promotion of dentsu inc. by msci or any of its affiliates. the msci indexes are the exclusive property of msci. msci and
   the msci index names and logos are trademarks or service marks of msci or its affiliates.




changes in dentsu share price (tokyo stock exchange)
                                                                                                                       ■ weekly trading volume
 1.2                                                                                                                                                30,000
                                                                                                            dentsu
 1.1                                                                                                                                                25,000
                                                                                                            topix

   1                                                                                                                                                20,000


 0.9                                                                                                                                                15,000


 0.8                                                                                                                                                10,000


 0.7                                                                                                                                                5,000


 0.6                                                                                                                                                0
  jun. 1                                                                  2016                                                            jul. 19
   2015                                                                                                                                    2016

       note: the dentsu and topix figures use 1 as the closing price data for june 1, 2015.




design concept of this integrated report


setting the overall design theme on coexistence with digital, i expressed the imagery of the
theme by incorporating the motif of color shades from nature and the environment.
                     takahiro kurashima was born in 1970.
                     while he engages in a wide variety of creative direction as an art director for various clients, takahiro is continuously
                     expanding his activity as an individual artist. his “poemotion” project aims to present a pioneering perspective of
                     graphic arts and was compiled into an art collection book and published in switzerland. the book was chosen for the
                     most beautiful swiss books 2011, and he published the third book in the series this year.




                                                                                              154                                                            dentsu integrated report 2016

