
index
corporate responsibility                                     1

corporate responsibility at dna                              1

customer                                                     3

society                                                      5

solutions for changing service needs                         7

stakeholder relations                                       9

climate                                                     10

supply chain                                                12

meaningful work                                             14

responsible employer                                        16

reporting (gri)                                             18

environmental indicators                                    19

social responsibility indicators                            23

gri content index                                           25

contacts                                                    35




                                   dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: corporate responsibility at dna                                                        1




dna updated its cr objectives
dna’s corporate responsibility (cr) strategy and objectives were updated in the autumn of
2015. the customer is now even more at the core of dna’s corporate responsibility. dna also
specified climate objectives for its business.

in the spirit of the paris climate conference, dna committed to a more ambitious reduction of its greenhouse
gas emissions. in november 2015, according to the new climate objectives, dna began using renewable energy
in its direct procurement of electricity. green electricity is estimated to reduce the indirect greenhouse gas
emissions from dna’s own energy consumption by 40 per cent by the end of 2016, which means about 13,000
tonnes less greenhouse gases per year. this amount equals about 2,000 trips around the world in a car.

dna’s responsibility strategy comprises three areas: the customer, the society and meaningful work. each area
in a nutshell:

  area                                            objectives                         examples of measures
                                                                                     in 2015

  customer                                        dna acts as an enabler in the      – dna’s responsibility
  we look after the customer. dna must            society, making customers’ lives   strategy and objectives
  understand what the customer needs              more inspiring, productive and     were updated, placing
  and provide suitable solutions. the             entertaining while also            special emphasis on
  customer understands what can be                preventing digital exclusion.      responsibility at the
  achieved with dna’s services and is                                                customer interface
  aware of key issues in the digital world.                                          – new products and
                                                                                     services were launched
                                                                                     for consumers, such as
                                                                                     the dna tv and iptv
                                                                                     services
                                                                                     – new products and
                                                                                     services were launched
                                                                                     for businesses, such as
                                                                                     dna pouta, which
                                                                                     allows a company to
                                                                                     choose suitable cloud
                                                                                     services
                                                                                     - dna and sonera’s
                                                                                     shared network enables
                                                                                     a quick construction of
                                                                                     a 4g network in
                                                                                     sparsely populated
                                                                                     areas in northern and
                                                                                     eastern finland

  society                                         – while the expansion of dna’s     – dna’s 4g and 3g
  dna plays a significant role in society         networks continues, we aim to      networks were
  by providing important communication            reduce our total emissions by 15   expanded by adding
  connections and maintaining                     per cent by 2020 from the levels   almost 3,000 base
  infrastructure that is critical to the          reported in 2014                   stations, some two
  operation of the society.                       – we will improve the energy       thirds of which to the
  our continuously expanding networks             efficiency of our radio network    4g network
  consume a lot of energy. we want to be          and reduce emissions from radio    – dna began using
  responsible and do our part to combat           network in proportion to annual    renewable energy in
  climate change.                                 data transfer volumes by 80 per    november 2015
                                                  cent from 2014 levels by 2020      – modernisation of
                                                                                     dna’s radio network
                                                                                     continued as planned,
                                                                                     improving energy
                                                                                     efficiency
                                                                                     – investments in the
                                                                                     energy efficient lte
                                                                                     technology help reduce
                                                                                     emissions
                                                                                     – constructing and



                                              dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: corporate responsibility at dna                                                                            2


                                                                                                 sharing a network with
                                                                                                 sonera is more energy-
                                                                                                 efficient because the
                                                                                                 technology is shared

  meaningful work                                 each dna employee is familiar                  – dna group’s code of
  we will increase corporate                      with the key responsibility                    conduct was updated
  responsibility know-how and                     objectives and understands how                 – code of conduct
  understanding at dna.                           they personally can help the                   training was updated
                                                  company achieve them.                          and will be launched in
                                                                                                 2016
                                                                                                 – internal
                                                                                                 communication about
                                                                                                 dna’s updated
                                                                                                 responsibility strategy
                                                                                                 and objectives got
                                                                                                 under way towards the
                                                                                                 end of 2015

dna is also continuously developing areas such as responsible procurement, privacy and data security, code of
conduct compliance and waste recycling.


new responsibility organisation
dna changed the organisation of its responsibility towards the end of 2015. the cross-organisatory cr network
was replaced by three new virtual teams: climate, innovations and responsible supply chain. responsibility is
also regularly discussed by the customer experience steering group and dna’s brand forum.

the body which ultimately accounts for dna’s corporate responsibility is the board of directors. it is
responsible, for example, for approving dna’s corporate responsibility report annually. at executive team level,
the chief financial officer is mainly in charge of corporate responsibility. dna has a full-time sustainability
manager who is responsible for promoting corporate responsibility at the group level and issuing reports to the
executive team every six months.


organisation of cr at dna
                                                       the audit committee discusses corporate relationship issues based on
        board of directors’ audit committee
                                                       proposals by the executive team.


                                                       the executive team monitors the productivity of dna’s operations and
                                                       discusses factors with significant economic or other impact. the chief
               dna’s executive team
                                                       financial officer is in charge of corporate responsibility at the executive
                                                       team.


                                                       dna’s sustainability manager decides on the main principles of
                                                       corporate responsibility together with the chief financial officer, and is
         sustainability manager and the cfo
                                                       responsible for meeting the targets and implementing the measures
                                                       related to corporate responsibility.


                    climate team
                    

                 innovation team
                                                       cr teams discuss and plan factors related to responsibility and decide on
           responsible supply chain team
                                                       the implementation and responsibilities thereof.
        customer experience steering group

                   brand forum




                                                       whenever necessary, the responsibility forum that comprises members
                responsibility forum                   of the responsibility teams is called to plan and prepare larger cr-related
                                                       entities.




                                              dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: customer                                                                                        3




our customers are our main responsibility
dna elaborated its responsibility strategy in 2015. the new and updated approach places
special emphasis on dna’s responsibility towards the customer.

voice and data communications have become a necessity for people and the society at large: it is difficult to
manage without good connections. however, consumers may find the product, service and solution offering of
the telecommunication operator sector very complex and even difficult to understand. as an operator, dna
shares the responsibility of understanding the customer’s needs and providing solutions that meet these needs.
dna also strives to inform the customer about these services and their possibilities as clearly as possible, and to
help the customer identify key issues that they should be aware of in the digital world.

dna’s business objective is to make customers’ lives more inspiring, productive and entertaining. dna also
considers it important that connections, services and devices are provided to consumers and companies in a
clear, easy and cost-efficient manner.


striving to provide the highest-quality customer experience
after the brand renewal, dna conveys a more unified
brand identity to the customers: all products and
services were brought under the dna brand in 2015 and
the dna store, dna business and dna welho brands
were discontinued.

customer experience was enhanced further in many
ways. customer service and other service channels
work in closer co-operation now, and online services
were renewed by introducing new, handy features, such
as click and collect, which allows customers to buy
products online and collect them from the local store.
dna also implemented single sign-on, which allows
users to access several dna services without having to
login separately to each of them.

dna’s customer service development is guided by                       focus on customer experience
customer satisfaction, which is measured by means                     in the summer and autumn of 2015, more than
such as the net promoter score (nps). both consumer                   1,000 dna employees formed “paras duuni”
and corporate business experienced very positive                      (“best job”) working groups led by their peers to
customer satisfaction development in 2015. investing in               discuss the further development of their
occupational well-being among customer service                        community. customer experience was one of
personnel improved customer satisfaction in both                      the themes under discussion, and more
segments. satisfaction was also improved by further                   specifically, what each dna employee can do to
development of training, coaching and customer service                serve the customer even better.
processes and systems as well as expansion of service
advisor competence.                                                   working group participants represented most
                                                                      positions at dna, not just customer service.
moreover, the process that anticipates the contact                    this helped bring home the fact that at the end
streams in consumer business was improved, which                      of the day, everyone at dna is working to
also benefited shift planning. customer service times                 provide even better customer experiences.
improved as a result.
                                                                      the initiative generated a myriad of new ideas,
corporate business customer service performed a                       all of which have been processed and
successful remote working pilot in 2015. dna's remote                 implemented where possible. performance
working method, the genuine method of working, will                   reviews and objective setting were among the
be implemented in corporate customer services in                      areas enhanced based on the feedback from the
early 2016.                                                           groups. the initiative continues in 2016 with a
                                                                      new theme: “one, unified dna”, with the aim to
                                                                      unify the corporate culture further on the basis
dna’s epsi rating survey success                                      of dna’s values – fast, bold and
continues                                                             straightforward.
dna’s success in the epsi rating survey continued in
2015. the company topped the epsi rating survey
results on mobile operators’ customer satisfaction
among corporate customers across the board. dna’s



                                          dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: customer                                                                            4


corporate customers were the most satisfied in all three
product categories: mobile voice, mobile broadband and fixed-network broadband.

among consumer customers, dna’s customer satisfaction and customer loyalty improved in 2015, and dna
scored the top points for mobile broadband services for consumers.

for more information on the results, see our website.




customer satisfaction
 results of the epsi rating survey, dna and dna welho           2015      2014      2013      2012     2011

 mobile communication services for consumers (dna)               74.9      74.0      75.6      72.9    73.8

 fixed broadband services for consumers (dna welho)              71.7      74.2      72.2      71.9    69.4

 mobile broadband services for consumers (dna)                   73.3      71.7      71.3      69.3    67.0

 mobile communication services for businesses (dna)              74.3      74.0      68.5      65.7    65.3

 fixed broadband services for businesses (dna)                   69.2       71.1     67.0      65.8    65.8

 mobile broadband services for businesses (dna)*                 73.5      67.8      70.2      n/a     n/a

 pay-tv (dna welho)                                              67.8      69.1      72.8      71.3    67.4




*satisfaction in mobile broadband services among businesses was measured for the first time in 2013.




                                         dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: society                                                                                     5




we promote digitalisation and
competitiveness in finland
as a telecommunications operator, dna plays an important role in society by providing
important communication connections and maintaining infrastructure that is critical to the
operation of society.

according to its strategy, dna will meet the growing demand for faster high-quality connections. the company
invests in a very competitive and cost-effective network and service platform infrastructure to meet the
growing communications needs of consumers and the society in general. by doing so, dna promotes
digitalisation and finnish competitiveness.


domestic investments and employment
dna’s economic responsibility includes meeting the expectations of customers and shareholders in a
sustainable manner, supporting the economic welfare of the company’s employees and society through direct
and indirect employment as well as investments and product and service innovation.

dna’s investments in 2015 came to eur 154.7 million (eur 149.6 million), or 18.7 per cent of net sales (17.9 per
cent). major individual items included investments in the 3g and 4g networks and in fibre and transfer systems.

dna has a strong local presence in some 100 locations in finland. at the end of 2015, the company employed
1,674 people and indirectly some 1,050 more. the number of dna personnel decreased by 57 employees in 2015.
the decrease is due to the cooperative negotiations that took place after the acquisition of tdc’s finnish
operations between august and october 2014 to establish a new dna business unit.

dna is an important regional employer. for example, dna employs close to 50 customer service professionals
in the city of pietarsaari and almost 70 in the municipality of taivalkoski. furthermore, the company traditionally
employs young people in customer service and dna store functions. at the end of 2015, those under 25
accounted for some 20 per cent of customer service personnel. in dna stores, the figure was almost 50 per
cent.


economic value for stakeholders, eur million
  generation of added value                                                                     2015       2014

  from the            net sales                                                                 828.8      833.5
  customers

  total generated added value                                                                   828.8      833.5

  distribution of added value                                                                    2015      2014

  goods and           materials and services as well as other operating expenses                498.5      530.1
  service
  suppliers

  personnel           salaries and remuneration as well as pension expenses                     102.3      96.4

  public sector       income tax, value added tax, personnel expenses as well as                90.0       77.1
                      payments to the finnish communications regulatory authority

  financial           interest expenses                                                         12.5       11.3
  sector

  shareholders        dividends for 2015*                                                       40.1       30.0

  total distributed added value                                                                 743.4      744.9

* dna’s board of directors has proposed to the annual general meeting that a dividend of eur 4.72 (3.54) per
share be paid for the financial year 2015, eur 40,062,746.40 in total (eur 30,041,194.02).




                                            dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: society                                                                      6




        dna a main partner in the “hundred – 100 koulua” initiative
        dna is a main partner of the “hundred – 100 koulua” initiative that was launched in
        december 2015. the initiative brings the best education innovations together, develops 100
        new operating models with the schools, providing a foundation for the best education in the
        world for the next 100 years.

        the “hundred – 100 koulua” initiative is implemented by scool, a finnish education
        development company. the initiative will also build a database for education innovations
        which will be made available to schools and teachers globally. other plans include a book, a
        documentary and a series of international seminars.

        “at dna, we are particularly interested in the effect of digitalisation on schools and
        learning. this is a great opportunity to develop education in finland and give it a new
        direction. this requires a touch of boldness simply because the future professions of our
        children may not even exist today,” says dna’s ceo jukka leinonen.




                                        dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: solutions for changing service needs                                                    7




dna provides solutions for changing service
needs
in a digital society, there is a constant need for receiving and sharing data. remote and mobile working with
smart devices is increasing, as is sharing content in social media and the use of entertainment services. dna
offers high-quality voice, data and tv services for communication, entertainment and work, and provides new
solutions to meet the changing consumer needs.


                                                            strong growth of mobile data
                                                            volumes continues
                                                            mobile data traffic volumes continued to grow
                                                            rapidly in 2015. data volumes in dna’s 4g network
                                                            tripled between the end of 2014 and end of 2015.
                                                            at the moment, up to 67 per cent of all data is
                                                            transferred in the 4g network.

                                                            this growth was driven, among other things, by
                                                            the growing supply and use of video, image and
                                                            instant messaging services that benefit from the
                                                            high speeds provided in modern networks. dna
                                                            makes significant investments in the network
                                                            infrastructure, providing comprehensive high-
                                                            speed connections.
helping asylum seekers
                                                            by the end of 2016, dna’s 4g network will cover
dna wants to extend a helping hand to those in              99 per cent of the population.
need in the society. as a member of the
diversity charter finland, dna wants to provide             additional information: network infrastructure
operator services to everyone, both finns and
other nationalities.
                                                            a shared network brings fast
in the autumn of 2015, dna donated internet                 connections to sparsely
connections to more than 20 reception centres               populated areas
for asylum seekers maintained by the finnish
red cross across the country. dna also                      dna and sonera’s shared network is a unique
donated prepaid subscriptions to almost 800                 initiative in finland, enabling a quick and cost-
asylum seekers.                                             effective construction of a 4g network in sparsely
                                                            populated areas in northern and eastern finland.
dna became a business sponsor of the startup                the jointly constructed network covers about half
refugees initiative, which provides mentoring               of the surface area of finland, populated by some
programs and funding to help refugees in                    15 per cent of finns.
finland start their own businesses and integrate.
in the autumn of 2015, dna donated tablets to               the construction got under way in 2015 in the
support the documentation of refugees’                      kuusamo area and quickly proceeded north. the
backgrounds and skills. this cooperation will               network has already been completed in eastern,
continue in 2016.                                           northern and western lapland and also covers
                                                            most of southern lapland. the shared network has
for more information on dna’s support to                    more than 500 base stations in northern finland.
charities, please see our website.                          network construction in eastern finland will
                                                            commence in early 2016.


                                                            dna drives innovation and new
                                                            business
dna actively supports innovation in finland and works in close cooperation with many start-up companies and
communities. dna works together with these partners to create unique user experiences to consumers and
business customers, leading the way in the commercialisation of new innovations. at the same time, dna
provides its partners with an opportunity to grow their business and visibility. more information: strategy


new way of working is effective and mobile
dna has been a pioneer in the promotion of digital and mobile work. corporations are seeking smart solutions
to improve the efficiency of their processes by means of cloud applications and remote working. the internet of



                                          dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: solutions for changing service needs                                                8


things places high demands on the capacity and security of networks.

as a responsible operator, dna takes the changing service needs of the working life into consideration, and
develops smart solutions for data communication between devices.


online safety of young users
dna has been guiding young users on safe use of the internet and mobile phones for several years. dna has
signed a european framework agreement, european framework for safer mobile use by younger teenagers
and children, which aims to improve the safety of mobile phone use by teenagers and children.

dna is also a long-term partner of sos children's village association, providing financial support and data
communication connections to the organisation.




                                         dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: stakeholder relations                                                                    9




dna values its stakeholders
dna engages in active dialogue with its stakeholders. in addition to high standards of customer service,
cooperative networking with other businesses, relationships with partners and support for non-profit causes
form part of dna’s broad stakeholder interaction.

dna’s customer panel was renewed and expanded in 2014. the internet-based customer panel is one of the
main interaction channels for consumer customers. it provides dna with quick feedback and information on
customers' opinions, expectations and values.

in addition to the customers, dna’s important stakeholders include personnel, shareholders, subcontractors
and partners, civic organisations, authorities and political decision-makers, the media, financial and insurance
markets, labour market organisations and other organisations as well as competitors.


transparent advocacy
the principles according to which dna uses social influence stem from the company’s values and code of
conduct. the aim is to establish open two-way communication between decision-makers and dna. the
objectives of social influence are based on dna’s business strategy and business objectives.

the communication is also a means of disseminating information to provide a balanced view of benefits as well
as possible challenges or problematic areas. the communication is respectful of the view of the other party,
such as a political decision-maker, and also the views of other stakeholders.

in 2015, dna joined the eu transparency register. the transparency register, or lobbyist register, has been
introduced to answer basic questions such as these: what interests are being represented at eu level, who
represents those interests and with what budgets. the register is jointly maintained by the european parliament
and the european commission.

dna is a member of the following organisations: european competitive telecommunications association
ecta, groupe speciale mobile association (gsma), the finnish federation for communications and
teleinformatics (ficom), the service sector employers palta and amcham finland.




                                          dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: climate                                                                                    10




dna sets climate objectives
                                          as a finnish telecommunications group, dna
                                          wants to be responsible and work towards
                                          reduction of emissions and increased energy
                                          efficiency. dna has calculated its greenhouse gas
                                          emissions since 2012 to identify the direct effect of
                                          dna’s operations on climate change. according to
                                          the results, most of the greenhouse gas emissions
                                          originate in production, i.e. the electricity
                                          consumption of dna’s radio network and transfer
equipment as well as the maintenance of their equipment facilities.

dna consumes a large amount of electricity, which means that the indirect greenhouse gas emissions from
dna’s own energy consumption are significant. this is why dna specified the following climate objectives in
2015:

 while the expansion of dna’s networks continues, we aim to reduce our total emissions by 15 per cent by
  2020 from the levels reported in 2014.
 we will improve the energy efficiency of our radio network and reduce emissions from the radio network in

  proportion to annual data transfer volumes by 80 per cent by 2020 from 2014.
in november 2015, in accordance with the new climate objectives, dna began using renewable energy in its
direct procurement of electricity. green electricity is estimated to reduce the indirect greenhouse gas
emissions from dna’s own energy consumption by 40 per cent by the end of 2016, which means about 13,000
tonnes less greenhouse gases per year. this amount equals about 2,000 trips around the world in a car.

the renewable energy purchased by dna is hydro power and comes with a guarantee of origin. hydro power is
an emission-free energy source and as such, a good option in terms of reducing the climate impacts of dna’s
business. however, renewable energy generation does have its problems and this also applies to hydro power.
hydroelectric plants can prevent the movement of migratory fish in rivers. fish passages and ladders are
constructed in finland according to finland’s national fish passage strategy to enhance the viability of
migratory fish stocks. dna is monitoring the situation and regularly assesses the origin of purchased electricity.


climate risks assessed
dna also wants to consider the options available for adjusting to currently prevailing effects of climate change.
to this end, dna has assessed its climate risks, covering effects of phenomena such as rainstorms and floods
on dna’s operations as well as the business impact and opportunities of regulation and changes in consumer
behaviour.


energy efficiency in production
modernisation of base stations in the mobile network proceeded as planned in 2015. some 80 per cent of the
old base stations have been replaced by more energy-efficient models. the project is expected to be completed
by 2017. the new system requires fewer devices, thereby reducing relative energy consumption. during the
network upgrades, hundreds of radio units have also been relocated from inside the equipment facilities to the
masts, removing the need for mechanical cooling. this saves significant amounts of energy.

increased mobile data volumes challenge the energy efficiency of the radio network, because the continuously
growing volumes require more equipment, which in turn increases energy consumption. on the other hand, the
4g network reduces the relative per-data energy consumption through improved technical performance of lte.


energy-efficient facilities and working methods
the new dna house, completed in the autumn of 2012, was constructed by yit according to its energy genius
concept. energy efficiency of the building was carefully considered already in the design and construction
phase. dna’s headquarters have earned an international leed gold certification as a recognition of the
building’s ecological energy and water consumption, materials used and emissions.

dna conducted a mandatory energy review towards the end of 2015 in company offices and equipment
facilities. while measures that can further improve energy efficiency and energy savings were identified during




                                          dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: climate                                                                                  11


the review, it indicated that as a whole, dna group’s offices and equipment facilities are already quite energy-
efficient.

dna conducted a study on the effects of the genuine method of working on co2 emissions from work-related
travel. according to the results, emissions from work-related travel can be cut by some 40 per cent annually
when employees work remotely at home for example. over the past years, dna has encouraged personnel to
use web conferencing and other similar tools, which has reduced work-related travel.




                                          dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: supply chain                                                                             12




dna monitors responsibility in its entire
delivery and supply chain
dna applies responsibility throughout the value chain from infrastructure investments and purchases to the
final product and service delivered to the customer. over the past years, the company has enhanced
responsibility in the supply and delivery chains and also taken into account the needs of end users as regards
the recycling of mobile devices, for example.

dna also expects its partners to take economic, environmental and social responsibility into consideration in
their operations. dna has enforced a supplier code of conduct since 2012. the code is added to all new
supplier agreements and also applies to the supplier’s subcontractors.

in 2015, dna again conducted a supplier responsibility survey to assess the responsibility of suppliers’
operations. among other things, the survey results indicated that 85 per cent of dna’s subcontractors and
suppliers address corporate responsibility in their strategy and 69 per cent have specified responsibility
objectives that are monitored. in total, 73 per cent of them monitor the responsibility of their subcontractors
and suppliers.


mobile device value chain and life-cycle from the consumer point of view




1. responsibility in the supply chain
the mobile device starts it journey at a factory, from where it is transported overseas to a dna store. we
emphasise responsibility and ethical operations in the supply chain and calculate logistics emissions.



2. expert advice
at the dna store, our customer service experts help you find the right product for you. in addition to voice and
data subscriptions, we also provide entertainment services, such as dna tv subscriptions and the deezer
music service.




                                          dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: supply chain                                                                           13




3. energy-efficient networks
dna’s networks provide reliable, extensive and fast connections – both at home and on the move. dna has
systematically improved the energy efficiency of its network by upgrading the base stations and radio network,
for example.



4. environmentally friendly data centers
the robust servers that live in dna’s data centres make sure that you can easily access the services you need
over dna’s networks. thanks to district cooling, dna’s new, environmentally friendly data centre will be
practically emission-free.



5. safe disposal
when your old mobile device is no longer of use to you, bring it to your nearest dna store, where our experts
dispose of it safely and responsibly without burdening the environment.



6. recycling of materials
recyclable materials recovered from mobile devices find a new life in products such as musical instruments,
garden furniture, traffic safety products and jewellery.




                                         dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: meaningful work                                                                               14




a team of top experts
dna’s human resources management aims to establish a team of top experts at dna, so that
each and every task is performed by a dedicated and qualified person. this is the foundation for
dna’s competitiveness. dna aims to be one of the most desired employers in finland.

leadership that is based on dna’s values creates competitive advantage in the constantly evolving industry.
employee satisfaction amidst the changes is one key indicator that dna is committed to.

after the organisational changes that took place at the end of 2014, the focus in 2015 was on a stronger, unified
corporate culture. key initiatives in this area included coaching programmes in supervisors' leadership skills and
the launch of the work community initiative.

other important – and permanent – focus areas include continuous competence development and open
interaction between personnel representatives and the personnel.


significant improvement in job satisfaction
dna participated in the great place to work survey for
the second time in 2015. the survey measures employee
satisfaction and the company’s employer image.

in comparison to 2014, the trust index of dna’s
personnel was 67 per cent in 2015 (60 per cent in 2014),
which according to the great place to work institute is
an exceptional year-on-year improvement in the large
companies' category in finland. in total, 78 per cent of
dna’s employees considered dna as a good workplace
(69 per cent in 2014). results improved across the board
for the organisation as a whole.

according to the survey, dna’s strengths as an
employer include flexibility, equal treatment of
employees and friendly atmosphere at work. the
employees also felt that their contribution is important              dream christmas presents for sos
and that they can freely be themselves.                               children’s village
                                                                      dna employees in the cities of rauma, pori and
suggestions for improvements included, for example,
                                                                      turku collected gift donations for the sos
that the company management could keep employees
                                                                      children’s village kaarina and employees in the
better up to date, involve employees more in decision-
                                                                      city of lahti for the sos children’s village
making and be more active in seeking out employees’
                                                                      tampere. many children had named sports
suggestions and ideas and following up on them. the
                                                                      equipment as their dream present. dna peers
employees would like to see the company management
                                                                      visited the sos children’s villages before
(top management and supervisors) to be more active
                                                                      christmas to deliver the presents.
communicators in the organisation. while this area
developed positively from the previous year, the                      dna peers are dna employees who volunteer
employees would like to see this trend continue.                      to promote well-being at work and employee
                                                                      satisfaction at dna premises. they organise
in 2015, 1,373 (997) dna employees participated in the
                                                                      various fun events and campaigns for the
2015 great place to work survey, achieving a response
                                                                      personnel.
rate of 79 per cent (69 per cent).
                                                                      dna is the main partner of sos children's
dna specified further action to improve employee
                                                                      village.
satisfaction and employer image based on the results.


customer service pilots the genuine
method of working
dna’s genuine method of working is based on trust and flexibility, and has proved very successful. using
mobile workstations, the employees decide independently where they work without discussing this with their
supervisor. the genuine method of working changes not only the working environment but also the working
culture, and dna’s employees have welcomed this change enthusiastically.

they especially value the increased flexibility in the management of their work and personal lives. they also
reported being more effective and less stressed when using the new method. most dna employees take



                                           dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: meaningful work                                                                         15


advantage of the flexibility by working at home.

the genuine method of working was expanded further in 2015 according to plan with the aim of implementing it
in all dna facilities during 2017.

personnel in consumer customer services (technical support) and corporate customer services took part in a
remote working pilot in 2015. after a very successful pilot, the remote working model will be implemented in
corporate customer services in 2015, while flexible working pilots are set to continue in consumer customer
services.

in january 2016, dna announced that it will participate in the family-friendly workplace programme of the
family federation of finland which aims to support well-being at work by providing tools to companies and
communities that promote the development of family-friendly practices. these practices improve job
satisfaction and productivity at the workplace. dna’s genuine method of working is one example of family-
friendly practices at the workplace.


support for supervisors’ individual development
supervisors’ leadership skills remained a focus area in skills development in 2015. the supervisor mentoring
programme continued in 2015 to provide support for supervisors’ individual development by means of
discussions. participants’ experiences about mentoring were very positive, and the programme will continue in
2016.

in 2015, dna launched a coaching programme for all supervisors on leadership and labour law. the programme
will also be incorporated in the induction process of new supervisors.

advanced coaching needs are identified by means of 360-degree surveys and mentoring.

for several years now, both dna ltd and dna store employees have had the opportunity to enrol in the jet
qualification programme in leadership training. by the end of 2015, 95 persons in total had participated in the
programme, 64 of which have acquired the qualification and seven having completed a partial qualification.
dna store employees also have the opportunity to work towards a specialist qualification in commerce through
apprenticeship training. the first group of students consisted of 18 students and four of them have completed a
partial qualification.


dna employees develop their working community
in 2015, dna employees were given an opportunity to influence the future development of their working
community in the “paras duuni” (“best job”) initiative in which their peers led working groups discussing the
future development of their jobs. most dna employees took part in the working groups during the summer and
autumn. the initiative generated a myriad of development ideas, which were reviewed by the executive team.

dna employees were also active participants in the implementation of dna’s brand renewal. dna’s new brand
was launched in april 2015 and dna movie experience events were organised in different parts of the country.
everyone at dna was given the opportunity to consider the essentials of the dna brand in small groups and
create a short film about them. the best ones were celebrated at an oscar-inspired gala at the end of the
spring.




                                          dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: responsible employer                                                                                       16




dna promotes well-being at work
dna promotes the well-being of its personnel with, for example, the edenred duo card, which provides
exercise opportunities for the personnel, and by organising different activity clubs. a mindfulness course was
piloted at dna house in 2015. participants were satisfied with the course and felt that it promoted their well-
being at work. the quit smoking campaign that was organised with occupational health and safety continues.

dna provides employees with a wide selection of healthcare and medical services in excess of the level
required by law. dna personnel can avail themselves of health services provided by, for example, specialists,
gynaecologists, occupational physiotherapists and psychologists. dna also offers its employees an accident
insurance for recreational activities.

focus areas in the further development of well-being at dna in 2015 included the development of team skills in
customer service and also throughout the organisation with various campaigns. dna’s hr experts were also
actively available at different premises in finland throughout the year. this was deemed useful and they will
continue to visit different premises in 2016.

dna peers continued to be active. they organised a halloween-themed party and oktoberfest for the
personnel and a christmas present collection for sos children’s village.


leadership practices embrace diversity
dna has been a member of fibs and diversity charter finland since early 2012. dna was among the first
members to sign the first diversity charter in finland, and has been an active participant in the diversity charter
network.

diversity is a tangible part of every-day leadership at dna. it is included in the company’s view of what
constitutes good leadership, alongside the principles of equality, non-discrimination and respect for and
utilisation of different skill sets.

by signing the diversity charter, dna is committed to providing equal opportunities for its employees and
customers, identifying and recognising their individual skill sets and needs, managing employees and customers
in a fair, encouraging and productive way, and communicating about its objectives and achievements to them.

deeper customer understanding is also an important area in dna’s diversity vision. a diverse and pluralistic
working community helps dna understand customer needs in different segments.

dna’s objectives in diversity management include:

 better identification of key business metrics
 enhanced employee recognition and commitment to improving reputation as a good employer
 increasing the value of the company in the long term




dna's diversity vision

        increased customer             the customer is at the core of our strategy: we aim to have the most satisfied customers.
                                       for dna’s business, it is important to deepen customer understanding continuously,
    understanding and customer         whereas a diverse working community helps create this type of skills and, on the long term,
            satisfaction               leads to increased customer satisfaction.


                                       we aim to be one of the most desired employers in finland. versatile top expertise is a
                                       critical success factor for dna: we must be able to understand the needs of the changing
      more versatile expertise         society from the point of view of different target groups and to provide an offering that
                                       meets these needs.


                                       we develop new, more effective ways of working digitally – for ourselves and our
                                       customers. we want to lead the way to better working life in finland. we aim to attract
     new ways of working and
                                       versatile expertise to stay ahead of the curve in a rapidly changing industry. as an
        thinking expand                organisation and as individuals, we must learn continuously to remain competitive in a
                                       tough environment.




                                           dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: responsible employer                                                                 17




we adhere to our code of conduct and legislation
as an employer, dna adheres to national legislation and the principles of the ilo declaration on fundamental
principles and rights at work, the un convention of the rights of the child, legislation on minimum wage and
working hours as well as general environmental, health and safety requirements. these are taken into
consideration in dna group’s code of conduct which applies to all employees. the company expects its
suppliers and subcontractors to operate according to these principles and has appended a supplier code of
conduct to its procurement and logistics agreements.




                                         dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: reporting (gri)                                                                             18




reporting according to gri guidelines
as in previous years, dna continued to report on corporate responsibility according to the global reporting
initiative reporting model in 2015. this is dna’s sixth gri report. with a reporting period of one calendar year,
dna publishes this gri-compliant corporate responsibility report annually with the annual report. the previous
report was published on 6 march 2014. dna adopted the gri g4 guidelines in 2014, and this is dna’s second
g4-compliant corporate responsibility report.

dna's cr reporting is based on the guidelines, principles and calculation methods specified by gri. it includes
the data for dna ltd, including dna store ltd. any deviations from or changes to the calculation limits are
mentioned with each indicator. similarly, any changes in measurement methods are mentioned with each
indicator.

the reporting is steered by the materiality analysis which gives consideration to business objectives and
stakeholder expectations. the materiality analysis was performed in 2014. the analysis of material aspects was
based on how they affect dna’s ability to create added value with its business. as a result of the analysis,
material aspects were specified as follows:

  requirement                       more effective and competitive dna            added value to stakeholders

   privacy and data                 using and developing                         investments in networks
    security                          environmentally friendly solutions            and the society
   adhering to ethical              online safety of young users                 customer satisfaction and

    business principles              economic benefits to stakeholders             customer service
   electronic waste                  and the society                              good employer

   responsible purchasing           service availability




dna utilises the materiality analysis in its corporate responsibility work including target setting, activities and
reporting.

the gri indicators in this report have been reviewed by the board of director's audit committee. dna’s
sustainability manager is responsible for the future development of reporting.




                                           dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: environmental indicators                                                           19




environmental indicators


 dna's emissions, total tco2*
  250 000




  200 000




  150 000




  100 000




   50 000




         0
                       2013                                2014                                2015


                                              dna's emissions, total tco2



*indicator includes scope 1, scope 2 (market-based) and scope 3 emissions.




 en18 – radio network emissions in
 proportion to annual radio network
 data transfer volumes (tco2/tb)*
  0.50




  0.40




  0.30




  0.20




  0.10




  0.00
                     2013                                 2014                                2015


             radio network emissions in proportion to annual radio network data transfer volumes (tco2/tb)



*indicator includes scope 1, scope 2 (market-based) and scope 3 emissions.




                                                            dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: environmental indicators                                                                   20




en15 – direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope
1)(tco2)
                                                          2015         2014          2013            2012    2011

 direct greenhouse gas emissions                          662              835        1104           569      546




en16 – indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2)
(tco2)
                                                  2015*            2014           2013             2012      2011

 indirect greenhouse gas emissions             29,707**          30,101          28,846        25,863       31,564



*energy consumption for 2015 includes the electricity consumption of the radio network of suomen
yhteisverkko oy. dna owns 49 per cent of suomen yhteisverkko oy shares.
**dna monitors emissions from energy consumption with the market-based approach, which takes into
account e.g. the guarantees of origin obtained by dna. dna's location-based emissions totalled 27,088 tco2,
based on the specific carbon dioxide emissions from electricity production in finland.




en17 – other indirect greenhouse gas emissions
(scope 3) (tco2)
                                                   2015            2014             2013           2012      2011

 scope 3, business travel*                          853             743              616            721       934

 scope 3, total**                               177,516          195,784         150,250           n/a        n/a




*business travel emissions are included in the total emissions figure for 2013, 2014 and 2015.
**scope 3 emission calculation was expanded and made more detailed in 2013. the calculation method is based
on the greenhouse gas protocol corporate value chain (scope 3) accounting and reporting standard
published in the spring of 2013.




en18 – greenhouse gas emissions in proportion to
net sales (tco2/meur)*
                                                                   2015                    2014              2013

 emissions in proportion to net sales                                251                     272              235




*includes scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions.




                                        dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: environmental indicators                                                                 21



en3 – energy consumption within the organisation
(tj)

                                                                   2015*      2014    2013      2012        2011

 total consumption of non-renewable fuels**:

 - diesel and gasoline                                                  7.2     6.6     6.3         6.3      5.8

 - fuel oil                                                             1.2     1.4     1.5          1.6     0.9

 consumption of renewable fuels                                        n/a     n/a     n/a          n/a     n/a

 electricity consumption                                           422.9      367.5   355.0    346.0       369.0

 heat consumption                                                      21.6    15.9    21.0         19.0    29.0

 cooling consumption                                                   3.5     n/a     n/a          n/a     n/a

 steam consumption                                                     0.0     0.0      0.0         0.0      0.0

 energy sales                                                          0.0     0.0      0.0         0.0      0.0

 total energy consumption                                          456.3      391.5   383.8    373.0       404.7




*energy consumption for 2015 includes the electricity consumption of the radio network of suomen
yhteisverkko oy. dna owns 49 per cent of suomen yhteisverkko oy shares.
**the calculation presumes that fuel used by dna's vehicles is from non-renewable sources.




en4 – energy consumption outside of the
organisation (tj)
                                                                                          2015             2014

 total energy consumption outside of the organisation in terajoules*                          1.4            1.3




*information on energy consumption outside of the organisation is collected on a limited scope for en17/scope
3 calculation. this indicator includes the energy consumption during usage of products and services sold by
dna, which is the same as in indicator en17, i.e. google office communications service. energy consumption
has been calculated based on the average consumption information provided by google.




                                         dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: environmental indicators                                                                 22




en23 – total weight of waste by type and disposal
method (tonnes)*
                                                                  2015         2014         2013         2012

 hazardous waste, total**                                            8           26             6             14

 other waste, total                                                540          698           510         703

 recyclable waste                                                  478           531         398         n/a

 combustible waste                                                  37           121           80        n/a

 disposable waste                                                   25           46            32        n/a

 total, all waste                                                  548          724           516         717




*waste reporting is based on data received from the waste operators.
**accurate information in terms of processing hazardous waste was not available. hazardous waste consists
mostly of lead-acid batteries, the materials of which are recycled (lead, chemicals) or combusted in energy
production facilities (plastic).




                                         dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: social responsibility indicators                                                        23




social responsibility indicators

type of employment contract
type of employment contract                2015               2014             2013           2012        2011

open-ended                                 1,626              1,710            1,537         1,403        1,015

fixed-term                                    48                   29            26             24          20

total                                      1,674              1,739            1,563          1,427       1,035




type of employment
type of employment                  2015           2014             2013             2012        2011

full-time                          1,636           1,651            1,468            1,336       997

part-time                             38             88                 95              91           38

total                              1,674           1,739            1,563            1,427      1,035




gender structure
by gender                              2015                2014              2013            2012         2011

women                                   676                1,022              668              611         333

men                                    998                   717              895             816          702

total                                 1,674                1,739             1,563           1,427        1,035




                                    dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: social responsibility indicators                                            24




age structure
by age group                           2015        2014           2013            2012         2011

< 25                                     3%          5%               5%           6%           3%

25–34                                   31%         31%           32%              31%         27%

35–44                                  35%          32%           32%              31%         37%

45–54                                  22%          22%           22%             23%          25%

55–64                                    9%          9%               8%           9%           8%

total                                 100%         100%          100%             100%         100%




share of women (%) per personnel group
personnel groups include women as follows:                     2015        2014      2013      2012

of management                                                  24%         30%           21%   25%

of managerial employees                                        26%         25%           26%   25%

of administrative employees                                    47%         48%           49%   36%

of service and production employees                             0%          3%           6%     15%




                                      dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: gri content index                                                                                25




gri content index
       gri                  indicator                                    reference                    external assurance


general standard disclosures

             strategy and analysis
g4-1         ceo’s review                          ceo’s review                                       -
                                                                                                      financial
                                                                                                      statements
                                                                                                      and board
             description of key impacts, risks     ceo’s review, operating environment, strategy,     of
g4-2
             and opportunities                     board of director’s report                         directors’
                                                                                                      report
                                                                                                      have been
                                                                                                      audited
             organisational profile
             name of the reporting
g4-3                                               dna ltd                                            -
             organisation
             primary brands, products and          primary brand is dna. for products and services,
g4-4                                                                                                  -
             services                              see year 2015 and business
                                                                                                      financial
                                                                                                      statements
                                                                                                      and board
             location of organisation’s            consolidated financial statements: note 1 the      of
g4-5
             headquarters                          group in brief                                     directors’
                                                                                                      report
                                                                                                      have been
                                                                                                      audited
                                                                                                       financial
             number of countries where the
                                                                                                       statements
             organisation operates, and names      almost 100 per cent of dna’s operations occur in
                                                                                                       and board
             of countries where either the         finland. finnish operations are supported by some
                                                                                                       of
g4-6         organisation has significant          sales and service employees in other countries. see
                                                                                                       directors’
             operations or that are specifically   dna’s subsidiaries in notes to the consolidated
                                                                                                       report
             relevant to the sustainability        financial statements, 31 related party transactions
                                                                                                       have been
             topics covered in the report
                                                                                                       audited
                                                                                                      financial
                                                                                                      statements
                                                                                                      and board
             nature of ownership and legal         dna in figures. see shares and shareholders in the of
g4-7
             form                                  financial statements                               directors’
                                                                                                      report
                                                                                                      have been
                                                                                                      audited
                                                                                                       financial
                                                                                                       statements
                                                   almost 100 per cent of dna’s operations occur in
                                                                                                       and board
                                                   finland. finnish operations are supported by some
                                                                                                       of
g4-8         markets served                        sales and service employees in other countries. see
                                                                                                       directors’
                                                   dna’s subsidiaries in notes to the consolidated
                                                                                                       report
                                                   financial statements, 31 related party transactions
                                                                                                       have been
                                                                                                       audited




                                           dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: gri content index                                                                  26


                                                                                                financial
                                                                                                statements
                                                                                                and board
                                                                                                of
g4-9      scale of the organisation           number of personnel 31 dec 2015: 1,674
                                                                                                directors’
                                                                                                report
                                                                                                have been
                                                                                                audited
                                          on 31 december 2015, dna group employed 1,674
          total number of employees by    people, 1,626 of which had open-ended contracts
g4-10     employment contract, region and and 48 had fixed-term contracts. 1,636 worked full -
          gender                          time and 38 part time. social responsibility
                                          indicators
                                          all dna group staff are covered by the applicable
                                          collective bargaining agreements specific to each
                                          employee category. service and production
          percentage of employees covered
                                          employees are covered by the collective agreement
g4-11     by collective bargaining                                                              -
                                          in the energy-ict-networks sector, and
          agreements
                                          administrative and managerial employees by the
                                          collective agreement for salaried and senior salaried
                                          employees in the ict sector.
          description of the organisation’s
g4-12                                         supply chain                                      -
          supply chain
                                                                                                financial
                                                                                                statements
          significant changes during the                                                        and board
          reporting period regarding the                                                        of
g4-13                                         board of directors’ report
          organisation’s size, structure,                                                       directors’
          ownership, or its supply chain                                                        report
                                                                                                have been
                                                                                                audited
          explanation of whether and how
g4-14     the precautionary principle is      risks and risk management                         -
          applied
                                             in autumn 2010, dna signed the finnish code of
                                             conduct for safer mobile use by younger
          endorsement of externally          teenagers and children as well as the european
          developed economic,                framework for safer mobile use (smf) by younger
g4-15                                                                                           -
          environmental and social charters, teenagers and children. in 2012, dna signed the
          principles or other initiatives    finnish diversity charter and joined the diversity
                                             charter finland. in 2015, dna joined the eu
                                             transparency register.
                                          dna is a member of various associations, including
                                          the service sector employers palta, the finnish
                                          federation for communications and teleinformatics
                                          (ficom), amcham finland, the european
                                          competitive telecommunications association
          memberships in associations and
g4-16                                     ecta and groupe speciale mobile association        -
          advocacy organisations
                                          (gsma). dna is also a member of corporate
                                          responsibility network fibs and diversity charter
                                          finland. dna engages in active communication
                                          with various authorities and political decision-
                                          makers. stakeholder relations
          identified material aspects and
          boundaries
                                                                                                financial
                                                                                                statements
                                              business. see also development per business       and board
          entities included in the
                                              segment and notes to the consolidated financial   of
g4-17     organisation’s consolidated
                                              statements: 16 investments in associates and 31   directors’
          financial statements
                                              related party transactions                        report
                                                                                                have been




                                        dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: gri content index                                                                  27


                                                                                                   audited
                                             dna has determined the contents of its 2015 cr
          process for defining report        report according to the gri g4 materiality process.
g4-18                                                                                            -
          content                            the materiality analysis was performed in 2014.
                                             reporting (gri)
                                             dna has determined the contents of its 2015 cr
                                             report according to the gri g4 materiality process.
g4-19     material aspects                                                                       -
                                             the materiality analysis was performed in 2014.
                                             reporting (gri)
                                             internal boundary: for economic and social
                                             responsibility reporting, the scope is dna group.
                                             the boundary is specified by dna group’s financial
                                             reporting. this is why dna’s responsibility reporting
                                             for 2015 includes the electricity consumption of the
          aspect boundary within the         radio network of suomen yhteisverkko oy. dna ltd
g4-20                                                                                              -
          organisation                       owns 49 per cent of suomen yhteisverkko oy
                                             shares. dna’s financial reporting for 2015 includes
                                             42 per cent of suomen yhteisverkko oy’s figures.
                                             correspondingly, the responsibility reporting
                                             includes 42 per cent of the electricity consumption
                                             of the radio network of suomen yhteisverkko oy.
                                             internal boundary: for economic and social
                                             responsibility reporting, the scope is dna group.
                                             the boundary is specified by dna group’s financial
                                             reporting. this is why dna’s responsibility reporting
                                             for 2015 includes the electricity consumption of the
          aspect boundary outside the        radio network of suomen yhteisverkko oy. dna ltd
g4-21                                                                                              -
          organisation                       owns 49 per cent of suomen yhteisverkko oy
                                             shares. dna’s financial reporting for 2015 includes
                                             42 per cent of suomen yhteisverkko oy’s figures.
                                             correspondingly, the responsibility reporting
                                             includes 42 per cent of the electricity consumption
                                             of the radio network of suomen yhteisverkko oy.
          explanation of the effect of any re- any deviations from or changes to the calculation
g4-22     statements of information            limits are mentioned with each key figure. see      -
          provided in earlier reports          reporting (gri).
          significant changes from previous any deviations from or changes to the calculation
g4-23     reporting periods in the scope and limits are mentioned with each key figure. see        -
          aspect boundaries                  reporting (gri).
          stakeholder engagement
                                             dna’s important stakeholders include customers,
                                             personnel, shareholders, subcontractors, civic
          list of stakeholder groups         organisations, authorities and political decision-
g4-24                                                                                            -
          engaged by the organisation        makers, the media, financial and insurance markets,
                                             labour market organisations and other organisations
                                             as well as competitors. stakeholder relations
                                             stakeholders have been specified as part of
                                             updating the materiality analysis. dna’s important
                                             stakeholders include customers, personnel,
          basis for identification and
                                             shareholders, subcontractors, civic organisations,
g4-25     selection of stakeholders with                                                           -
                                             authorities and political decision-makers, the media,
          whom to engage
                                             financial and insurance markets, labour market
                                             organisations and other organisations as well as
                                             competitors. stakeholder relations
          approaches to stakeholder
g4-26                                        customer, stakeholder relations                       -
          engagement
          key topics and concerns that have
g4-27     been raised through stakeholder reporting (gri)                                          -
          engagement




                                        dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: gri content index                                                             28


          report profile
                                              the gri report is published annually with the
g4-28     reporting period                                                                          -
                                              annual report.
          date of the most recent previous
g4-29                                         6 march 2014                                          -
          report
g4-30     reporting cycle                     annually                                              -
          contact point for questions
g4-31     regarding the report or its         contacts                                              -
          contents
g4-32     gri content index                   gri content index
                                              dna’s corporate responsibility report 2015 has not
          policy and current practice with
                                              been subjected to external assurance. dna ltd’s
g4-33     regard to seeking external                                                                -
                                              auditor has audited the financial statements and
          assurance for the report
                                              board of director’s report.
          governance
          governance structure and
g4-34                                         corporate governance and internal control             -
          committees
g4-35     division of responsibilities        corporate responsibility at dna                       -
          executive-level positions with
g4-36     responsibility for economic,        corporate responsibility at dna, contacts             -
          environmental and social topics
                                              shareholders exercise their shareholder power in
                                              the general meeting. dna’s board of directors
          processes for consultation
                                              does not have an employee representative.
g4-37     between stakeholders and the                                                              -
                                              personnel representatives attend meetings of the
          highest governance body
                                              extended executive team. see corporate
                                              governance and internal control
          composition of the highest
g4-38     governance body and its             corporate governance and internal control             -
          committees
                                              the chairman of dna ltd’s board of directors is
          the chairman of the board’s role
g4-39                                         not an executive officer. see board of directors and -
          in the organisation
                                              members of the board of directors
          nomination and selection            see board of directors for information on the
g4-40     processes for the board of          nomination and selection process of board and         -
          directors and its committees        committee members
                                              as stipulated by law, a member of the board of
          processes for the highest
                                              directors shall be disqualified from the
g4-41     governance body to ensure                                                                 -
                                              consideration of a matter that involves a conflict of
          conflicts of interest are avoided
                                              interest. see board of directors.
          the board of directors’ role in
                                              strategy, corporate governance and internal
g4-42     setting purpose, values and                                                               -
                                              control
          strategy
                                              the board of directors carries out an internal self-
          board of directors’ performance     evaluation of its operations once per year. the self-
g4-44                                                                                               -
          evaluation                          evaluation report for 2015 was discussed in a board
                                              meeting.
                                           the board of directors monitors dna’s cr
          board of directors’ role in the  performance according to the same principles that
g4-45     identification and management of apply to the monitoring of dna’s other operations. -
          risks                            see board of directors and risks and risk
                                           management
                                             the board of directors monitors the effectiveness
          board of director’s role in        of dna’s risk management process according to the
          reviewing the effectiveness of the same principles that apply to the monitoring of
g4-46                                                                                          -
          organisation’s risk management     dna’s other operations. see board of directors,
          processes                          corporate responsibility at dna and risks and
                                             risk management.




                                         dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: gri content index                                                                     29


                                               the board of directors monitors the effectiveness
                                               of dna’s risk management process according to the
                                               same principles that apply to the monitoring of
g4-47      risk assessment frequency                                                              -
                                               dna’s other operations. see board of directors,
                                               corporate responsibility at dna and risks and risk
                                               management.
           highest committee or position
g4-48      that formally reviews and          corporate responsibility at dna                      -
           approves the sustainability report
           process for communicating critical critical cr concerns are communicated to the
g4-49                                                                                              -
           concerns                           board of directors.
           critical concerns reported to the   no concerns specific to corporate responsibility
g4-50                                                                                              -
           board of directors                  have been reported during the reporting period.
                                               dna’s remuneration principles do not specify a
                                                                                                   financial
                                               linkage between the organisation’s responsibility
                                                                                                   statements
                                               performance and compensation for members of the
                                                                                                   and board
           remuneration policies for the       board of directors and senior executives. for more
                                                                                                   of
g4-51      board of directors and senior       details on remuneration, see the following notes to
                                                                                                   directors’
           executives                          the consolidated financial statements: 13 earnings
                                                                                                   report
                                               per share and 9 employment benefits and number
                                                                                                   have been
                                               of personnel. see also governance - salary and
                                                                                                   audited
                                               remuneration report.
                                               shareholders exercise their shareholder power in
           details on how stakeholders’
                                               the general meeting. dna’s board of directors
           views are sought and taken into
                                               does not have an employee representative.
           account regarding remuneration,
g4-53                                          personnel representatives attend meetings of the    -
           including the results of votes on
                                               extended executive team. see corporate
           remuneration policies and
                                               governance and internal control and salary and
           proposals, if applicable.
                                               remuneration report.
           ethics and integrity
                                               strategy, corporate responsibility at dna,
g4-56      values and principles                                                                   -
                                               customer
                                               dna’s employees are guided by dna group’s code
                                               of conduct. it specifies the group’s values,
                                               operating methods and communication channels
                                               and also the action to be taken when questions
                                               arise. the code of conduct is the upper-level
                                               guideline which is specified in more concrete terms
           mechanisms for reporting            in the company’s operating policies. dna’s board of
           concerns about unethical or         directors approves the code of conduct, which is
g4-58                                                                                              -
           unlawful behaviour, and matters updated every other year or so. the code of
           related to organisational integrity conduct was updated in 2015 and the practical
                                               implementation will take place in 2016.

                                               dna’s code of conduct instructs employees to
                                               report any concerns about unethical or unlawful
                                               behaviour to a supervisor, hr or the legal
                                               department.
specific standard disclosures
           management approach
           disclosure of management
                                               corporate responsibility at dna, contacts           -
           approach (dma)




                                           dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: gri content index                                                                     30


          economic responsibility
                                                                                                   financial
                                                                                                   statements
                                                                                                   and board
                                          see dna’s economic impact on its operating
          direct economic value generated                                                          of
g4-ec1                                    environment, society. for more information, see
          and distributed                                                                          directors’
                                          consolidated income statement.
                                                                                                   report
                                                                                                   have been
                                                                                                   audited
          financial implications and other
                                             dna conducted a large-scale climate change risk
          risks and opportunities for the
g4-ec2                                       assessment in the autumn of 2013. climate,            -
          organisation’s activities due to
                                             environmental indicators
          climate change
                                                                                                   financial
                                                                                                   statements
                                                                                                   and board
          coverage of the organisation’s     notes to the consolidated financial statements: 2     of
g4-ec3
          defined benefit plan obligations   accounting principles and 24 defined benefit plan     directors’
                                                                                                   report
                                                                                                   have been
                                                                                                   audited
          significant financial assistance   in 2015, dna did not receive financial assistance
g4-ec4                                                                                             -
          received from government           from government.
          development and impact of
g4-ec7    infrastructure investments and     society, network infrastructure                       -
          services supported
          proportion of spending on local       currently, dna does not collect data regarding
g4-ec9    suppliers at significant locations of proportion of spending on local suppliers at       -
          operation                             significant locations.
          environmental
          energy consumption within the
g4-en3                                       climate, environmental indicators                     -
          organisation
          energy consumption outside the
g4-en4                                       climate, environmental indicators                     -
          organisation
          direct greenhouse gas (ghg)
g4-en15                                      environmental indicators                              -
          emissions (scope 1)
          indirect greenhouse gas (ghg)
g4-en16                                      environmental indicators                              -
          emissions (scope 2)
          other indirect greenhouse gas
g4-en17                                      environmental indicators                              -
          (ghg) emissions (scope 3)
          greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions
g4-en18                                  environmental indicators                                  -
          intensity
          total weight of waste by type and
g4-en23                                     environmental indicators                               -
          disposal method
          extent of impact mitigation of
g4-en27   environmental impacts of           supply chain, climate, environmental indicators       -
          products and services
                                             dna’s supplier agreements include the supplier
                                             code of conduct according to which suppliers
                                             agree to adhere to environmental legislation and
                                             regulations. supplier code of conduct was included
                                             in a significant proportion of new procurement and
                                             logistics agreements signed in 2015. the exact
          percentage of new suppliers that
                                             percentage is not currently available.
g4-en32   were screened using                                                                      -
          environmental criteria
                                             the supplier code of conduct is based on the un
                                             declaration on human rights and the ilo
                                             declaration on fundamental principles and rights at
                                             work. environmental responsibility considerations




                                        dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: gri content index                                                              31


                                               are also included. the supplier code of conduct
                                               also applies to the suppliers’ subcontractors.
          social responsibility
          total number and rates of new     dna group’s rate of employee turnover was 11.1 per
          employee hires and employee       cent in 2015. (in 2014, the rate was 6.3 per cent).
g4-la1                                                                                          -
          turnover by age group, gender and the figure does not include fixed-term employment
          region                            contracts or internal transfers.
          benefits provided to full-time       dna ltd provides the same benefits to all
          employees that are not provided      employees, regardless of employment type. the
g4-la2    to temporary or part-time            benefits and policies of dna’s sales organisation,    -
          employees, by significant            dna store ltd, apply to all dna store employees
          locations of operations              regardless of employment type.
          minimum notice periods regarding
                                           during operational changes, dna has observed the
          operational changes, including
g4-la4                                     minimum notice periods for the applicable        -
          whether these are specified in
                                           collective agreements.
          collective agreements
          percentage of total workforce
                                               dna ltd has a statutory labour protection
          represented in formal joint
                                               committee that consists of regional labour
          management-worker health and
                                               protection delegates. the committee members
g4-la5    safety committees that help                                                                -
                                               include five labour protection delegates, including
          monitor and advise on
                                               dna store delegate, and the labour protection
          occupational health and safety
                                               officer. the committee has quarterly meetings.
          programs
                                               the group-level relative rate of absenteeism was
          type of injury and rate of injury,   4.9 per cent in 2015 (4.9 per cent in 2014). there
          occupational diseases, lost days,    were no work-related fatalities. there were 20 work
g4-la6    and absenteeism, and total           time injuries (26 in 2014) and 22 days were lost due -
          number of work-related fatalities,   to work-related reasons (34 in 2014). 60 per cent of
          by region and by gender              the work time injuries occurred on the way to or
                                               from work.
                                               dna believes that statutory labour protection
                                               activities in finland cover la8 requirements. dna’s
                                               labour protection committee 2015 has one labour
                                               protection delegate per office, a labour protection
          health and safety topics covered     officer as well as representatives from office and
g4-la8    in formal agreements with trade      human resource management. the committee            -
          unions                               meets once a quarter. a typical agenda includes
                                               reviewing areas such as accident, sick leave and
                                               overtime statistics, and dealing with possible
                                               occupational safety issues, for example, based on
                                               feedback from employees.
                                             average hours of training/employee for
                                             men/women in 2015: dna ltd: senior salaried
                                             employees 17/17, salaried employees 10/11, workers -
          average hours of training per year /-, managers 31/17. dna welho ltd: senior salaried
g4-la9    per employee per gender, and by employees 5/12, salaried employees 3/5, workers -/- -
          employee category                  , managers -/6. dna store ltd: senior salaried
                                             employees -/40, salaried employees 18/33, workers
                                             -/-, managers -/60. average/personnel, entire
                                             group: 12
                                             by the end of 2015, six groups of employees have
                                             participated in the jet qualification programmes in
                                             leadership training, some 95 participants in total, of
                                             whom 64 have completed the programme and
                                             seven have a partial qualification. two groups from
          programs for skills management dna store ltd completed the qualification
          and lifelong learning that support programme in store supervision (some 20
g4-la10   the continued employability of     participants) and a group of dna customer service -
          employees and assist them in       employees have completed a further qualification in
          managing career endings            sales (10 participants). in total, 14 persons are
                                             working towards a specialist qualification in
                                             commerce, four of whom have a partial
                                             qualification. dna signed an agreement on



                                       dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: gri content index                                                             32


                                              transition training with salpaus further education
                                              that was organised in the spring of 2015.
                                            dna ltd and dna welho ltd have conducted
                                            performance reviews with all permanently
                                            employed persons not on a leave and temporary and
                                            agency employees whose employment continues
          percentage of employees
                                            until the end of the year under review. dna store
g4-la11   receiving regular performance and                                                    -
                                            ltd arranges sales-related performance reviews
          career development reviews
                                            with employees, as required. these reviews focus
                                            on the development of sales skills and competence.
                                            supervisors’ performance reviews were conducted
                                            with a 360-degree survey (231 supervisors.)
          composition of governance
                                          two of the six members of dna’s board of
          bodies and breakdown of
                                          directors were women during the reporting period.
          employees per employee category
g4-la12                                   one of the nine members of dna’s executive team -
          according to gender, age group,
                                          was a woman. members of the board, executive
          minority group membership, and
                                          team, social responsibility indicators
          other indicators of diversity
                                              dna’s supplier agreements include the supplier
                                              code of conduct according to which suppliers
                                              agree to adhere to responsible labour practices and
                                              related legislation and regulations. supplier code of
                                              conduct was included in a significant proportion of
                                              new procurement and logistics agreements signed
          percentage of new suppliers that    in 2015. the exact percentage is not currently
g4-la14   were screened using labour          available.                                            -
          practices criteria
                                              the supplier code of conduct is based on the un
                                              declaration on human rights and the ilo
                                              declaration on fundamental principles and rights at
                                              work. environmental responsibility considerations
                                              are also included. the supplier code of conduct
                                              also applies to the suppliers’ subcontractors.
          total number of incidents of
                                              no incidents of discrimination occurred at dna
g4-hr3    discrimination and corrective                                                             -
                                              group in 2015.
          actions taken
                                              dna’s supplier agreements include the supplier
                                              code of conduct according to which suppliers
                                              agree to adhere to human rights legislation and
                                              regulations. supplier code of conduct was included
                                              in a significant proportion of new procurement and
                                              logistics agreements signed in 2015. the exact
          percentage of new suppliers that
                                              percentage is not currently available.
g4-hr10   were screened using human rights                                                          -
          criteria
                                              the supplier code of conduct is based on the un
                                              declaration on human rights and the ilo
                                              declaration on fundamental principles and rights at
                                              work. environmental responsibility considerations
                                              are also included. the supplier code of conduct
                                              also applies to the suppliers’ subcontractors.
          society
                                              dna’s code of conduct bans any corruption. dna -
          total number and percentage of
                                              has issued separate guidelines for the giving and
          operations assessed for risks
g4-so3                                        receiving business gifts. the company does not
          related to corruption and the
                                              have a separate risk assessment process for
          significant risks identified
                                              corruption.
                                              dna’s sustainability manager has trained dna
                                              personnel in dna group's anti-corruption policies
          communication and training on       and procedures. practical implementation of the
g4-so4    anti-corruption policies and        code of conduct is repeated among personnel           -
          procedures                          every couple of years. the code of conduct was
                                              updated in 2015 and practical implementation will
                                              take place in 2016.




                                          dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: gri content index                                                                33


          confirmed incidents of corruption there were no incidents of corruption at dna in
g4-so5                                                                                                 -
          and actions taken                 2015.
                                              dna group does not support any political parties,
          total value of political
                                              politicians or similar institutions. according to this
g4-so6    contributions by country and                                                                 -
                                              policy, dna did not provide any political
          recipient/beneficiary
                                              contributions in 2015.
                                              dna ltd operates according to competitive
                                              regulations. during the reporting period, neither the
                                              group nor any of its wholly-owned subsidiaries
                                              were subject to legal actions for violation of
                                              competition legislation.

                                            according to the competition act, the finnish
                                            competition and consumer authority carried out an
                                            inspection at dna ltd on 4 november 2014 in
                                            relation to the network partnership announced by
                                            dna and teliasonera finland on 20 august 2014.
          total number of legal actions for inspections under the competition act are part of
          anti-competitive behaviour, anti- the normal operations of the finnish competition
g4-so7                                                                                              -
          trust and monopoly practices and and consumer authority. the fact that an
          their outcomes                    inspection is carried out is not an indication of guilt
                                            on the part of the audited organisation. fcca
                                            issued a decision on 5 november 2015, stating that
                                            the network partnership of dna and teliasonera
                                            creates concrete benefits to residents in northern
                                            and eastern finland. however, the authority also
                                            expressed concern that the network partnership
                                            may restrict competition in the mobile
                                            communications market. as a result, dna and
                                            teliasonera offered fcca commitments that
                                            ensure competition and fcca closed the
                                            inspection after these came into force.
          monetary value of significant fines
                                              in 2015, dna was not ordered to pay any fines or
          and total number of non-monetary
g4-so8                                        other sanctions for non-compliance with laws or          -
          sanctions for non-compliance with
                                              regulations.
          laws and regulations
          results of surveys measuring
g4-pr5                                        customer                                                 -
          customer satisfaction
          total number of incidents of non-
          compliance with regulations and
          voluntary codes concerning        in 2015, no court decisions were issued in relation to
g4-pr7    marketing communications,         dna’s marketing, nor did the market court issue        -
          including advertising, promotion, any conditional fines.
          and sponsorship, by type of
          outcomes
                                           according to the finnish information society code,
                                           telecommunications operators shall notify the
                                           finnish communications regulatory authority
                                           (ficora) of significant information security violations
                                           or threats to information security in their network
                                           and communication services. dna issued less than
          total number of substantiated    five so-called cert notifications to ficora in 2015.
          complaints regarding breaches of the notifications concerned a human error that
g4-pr8                                                                                             -
          customer privacy and losses of   caused a small amount of customer data to be
          customer data                    visible to a third party for a short period of time.
                                           dna processed the cases specified in the cert
                                           notifications as soon as possible to minimise any
                                           inconvenience caused to the customers. dna
                                           considers the data security of both consumer and
                                           business customers a top priority in all its
                                           operations.




                                         dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: gri content index                                                          34


          monetary value of significant fines
                                              dna has not been ordered to pay any major fines
          for non-compliance with
                                              for non-compliance with laws and regulations
g4-pr9    regulations concerning the                                                             -
                                              concerning the provision and use of products and
          provision and use of products and
                                              services during the reporting period.
          services




                                       dna annual report 2015

corporate responsibility: contacts                                                                      35




contacts




                                                      at the executive team level, cfo timo karppinen
dna ltd’s sustainability manager hanna                is in charge of corporate responsibility,
haapakoski is responsible for dna’s corporate         forename.surname (at) dna.fi.
responsibility, forename.surname (at) dna.fi.




                                        dna annual report 2015

