
2016 doe run sustainability report
   sustainability2016.doerun.com /


business highlights

250,000
southeast missouri mining and milling division produces approximately 250,000 tons of lead concentrates annually.


160,000
resource recycling has the capacity to recycle and recover nearly 160,000 tons of refined lead and lead alloys from
more than 13.5 million recycled lead-acid batteries annually.


30,000
fabricated products inc. manufactures 30,000 tons of lead products annually.

facts about lead

battery recycling

more than 99 percent of lead batteries in the united states are recycled, compared to aluminum cans at 55 percent. 1

automobiles

one billion vehicles worldwide rely on lead-based batteries to start their engines and power their electronics. 2

renewable energy

lead-based batteries store renewable energy sourced from wind turbines and solar panels before going into the
electric grid.

1. u.s. environmental protection agency

2. international lead association

message from the ceo
   sustainability2016.doerun.com /message-from-the-ceo/

for much of 2016, doe run continued to face challenges from depressed metal prices, regulatory capital spending
requirements and other regulatory uncertainty. in order to adjust to these conditions, we had to make a number of
tough choices. those included the difficult decisions to curtail production and to reduce our workforce at several
locations early in the year.

despite this period of uncertainty, doe run continued progress on process and equipment improvements, as well as
a program of cost reductions, so that we could be poised to capitalize on a lead price rebound. fortunately, our
efforts paid off and lead prices began to improve toward the end of 2016.

adapting now to prepare for the future

as we prioritized projects for 2016, we focused on those that met our commitments to workforce safety,
environmental standards and customer needs, as well as projects that would prepare our company for the economic
opportunities of a pricing rebound.

in 2016, doe run completed our multi-million dollar equipment update at the resource recycling facility. these
improvements included:

    better workforce safety.
    enhanced productivity and processing capability.
    stronger competitiveness for the future.

read more on how we delivered on this commitment here.

innovative upgrades also occurred at brushy creek mill, where adjustments to our milling process improved mineral
recovery and product consistency, and provided a new method to sustainably re-use our water resources. read
more on our updated water management.

we continue to make progress on converting the former smelter site in herculaneum for new use. in 2016, doe run
sold 18 acres of previously leased riverfront property to riverview commerce park llc. this property sale
represents a long-term commitment to herculaneum for the mississippi river shipping port, which is changing the
economic future for the community. read more about repurposing efforts at the former smelter site.

continuous improvement in the face of challenges

market prices are just one of the challenges facing the mining and metal production industries. our current and long-
term success depends on our ability to adapt to a constantly changing regulatory environment, and maintaining a
skilled workforce.

as we face these challenges, we’re driven by our commitment to balance our social, environmental and economic
responsibilities set forth in our sustainability principles. we continually strive to be good stewards of the
environment and maintain the health and safety of our employees and the communities in which we operate.

during periods of low lead prices, the financial costs of the changing regulatory environment became increasingly
challenging. according to a report for the national association of manufacturers , companies in the manufacturing
sector spend on average $13,750 per employee each year just to meet federal regulations. during the last five
years, doe run incurred more than $343 million in environmental expenses – or roughly $57,000 per employee. in

2016 alone, these expenses included $71 million on efforts to limit the impact of our operations and improve energy
and water use. as an example, we opened two $12 million water treatment plants at sweetwater mine and in
viburnum as part of updating our water management approach at the southeast missouri mining & milling division
(semo).

our success as a company and an industry depends on protecting the health and safety of our employees,
contractors and communities. in 2015, international lead association (ila) members established the goal of
reducing employee blood-lead levels to below 30 μg/dl. our goal is to reduce the number of employees at each
location who surpass 19 μg/dl by proactively monitoring employees’ blood-lead levels, which we accomplished at
three out of four locations in 2016. in total, the average blood-lead level companywide declined to 10.2 μg/dl. both
the ila guidelines and doe run’s protocols establish lower acceptable blood-lead levels than are required by law.
view more about employee health and safety.

to sustain our vital industry in southeast missouri, we’re focused on attracting talented workers. by 2019, the
mining industry needs 78,000 workers to replace retirees, according to the energy information administration (eia).
during that same time, the industry is expected to grow by about 50,000 workers. our industry will need to fill
128,000 positions by 2019. our efforts to address this challenge include our partnerships and donations to missouri
university of science & technology, mineral area college and other schools with mining-related programs, as well
as scholarships and internships to educate the next generation of our workforce. read more about our partnerships
to build a sustainable workforce.

opportunities for metals in the future economy

we’re excited about the future for the metals we mine. around the world, lead-based batteries power vehicles, store
renewable wind and solar energy, and provide backup power for critical operations at hospitals and financial centers.
market analysts predict demand for lead-based batteries will grow as a result of expanding economies across the
globe, growth in hybrid electric vehicles and renewable energy storage demand expands around the globe.

doe run is doing its part to support the development of advanced lead batteries to meet these applications as a
member of the advanced lead acid battery consortium and other industry organizations. through these industry
coalitions, we’re supporting research and development of advanced uses for our lead that will drive demand for
decades to come. new lead-based battery technologies will help the lead industry continue to thrive in missouri.
read more about lead’s economic rebound.

our future isn’t focused on lead alone. zinc and copper, two other metals contained in ore found in our southeast
missouri mines, are vital to everyday life. zinc-based products are used for construction and the automotive industry
and demand for this versatile metal grows as developing nations expand their infrastructure. in addition, zinc-based
batteries have been used for many decades in toys, electronics and even aircraft and space applications. zinc also
is vital for human and plant health. read more about zinc. doe run’s third mineral product, copper, is also critical to
modern society and is used extensively in construction, manufacturing, electrical and the energy industries to name
a few.

                                                    share your feedback on our report
                      we understand that we operate with the consent of stakeholders like you. your views are important to
                     us, and we ask that you consider answering a few questions on our online survey or you may email me.



as i prepare this report overview, i have the advantage of hindsight. the steps we took in 2016, combined with the
dedication of our employees, and the partnerships we have forged with customers and vendors, have put doe run
in a solid position to capitalize on the improved lead metal prices, a growing economy and a bright future. thank you
for your interest in our business. please consider sharing your opinions with us in a brief online survey.

sincerely,

jerry l. pyatt




president and chief executive officer
corporateinfo@doerun.com

organizational profile
   sustainability2016.doerun.com /introduction/organizational-profile/

the doe run company manages the various components of the lead lifecycle, and also provides lead
metals, alloys and lead concentrates to companies globally.

based in st. louis, missouri, the doe run company (doe run) is a privately held natural resources company and
a global provider of lead, copper and zinc concentrates and lead metals and alloys. dedicated to environmentally
responsible mining operations and metal production, doe run operates one of the world’s largest single-site lead
recycling centers, located in boss, missouri. doe run and its subsidiaries deliver products and services necessary
to provide power, protection and convenience. doe run has operations in missouri, washington and arizona.


our business divisions

southeast missouri mining and milling
division

the lifecycle of lead starts with exploration,
which has helped to identify and locate the six
underground mines of the southeast missouri
mining and milling division (semo). here, ore
containing lead (galena), zinc (sphalerite) and
copper (chalcopyrite) is located, blasted,
hauled, crushed and hoisted to the surface,
then concentrated at doe run’s four mills. in
southeastern missouri’s viburnum trend,
mining and milling has taken place for more
than 50 years and produces approximately
225,000 tons of lead concentrates annually.

doe run’s semo division also includes the glover facility as of late 2013. a portion of the site, which ceased
operations as a primary lead smelter in 2003, functions as a warehouse and transloading facility.

steve batts, vice president – semo operations
semoinfo@doerun.com

metals division

doe run’s resource recycling facility has
served metals customers and the battery
manufacturing industry as one of the world’s
largest single-site lead recycling centers since
1991. resource recycling has the capacity to
recycle and recover nearly 175,000 tons of
refined lead and lead alloys from more than
13.5 million recycled lead-acid batteries
annually. other recycled materials include
ammunition, lead-bearing glass and lead-based
paint chips. recovered lead is used to produce
secondary lead and lead alloys for battery
manufactures and other customers.

in late 2013, doe run closed its herculaneum primary smelting operations. the company continues to operate its
refinery, strip mill, and alloying and casting operations at the herculaneum site to produce unique lead alloy
products. with the closure of the smelter, doe run’s primary smelting division was combined with its resource
recycling division to better serve customers as the metals division.

anthony staley, general manager (hired 2017)
rrdinfo@doerun.com

fabricated products inc.

fabricated products inc. (fpi) is a wholly
owned doe run subsidiary. fpi’s vancouver,
washington, location primarily produces lead
oxide for the manufacturing of lead-acid
batteries. lead metal fabrication takes place at
the casa grande, arizona, location. the facility
produces sheet lead for roofing; lead shielding
to block sound waves, x-rays and nuclear
radiation; storage containers for radioactive
waste; lead anodes for copper and zinc
electrowinning; bullet materials; and specialty
extruded shapes. annually, fpi manufactures
30,000 tons of lead products.

dave olkkonen, general manager
fpiinfo@doerun.com

map of operations


partners for a sustainable workforce
   sustainability2016.doerun.com /partners-sustainable-workforce/

founded in 1870 as the missouri school of mines and metallurgy, missouri university of science and technology
(missouri s&t) continues to be instrumental in preparing students for careers in mining, geology, metallurgy and
other disciplines critical to the success of doe run. today, more than ever, doe run and missouri s&t recognize
the mutual benefits of a globally recognized lead mine and world-renowned university in each other’s backyards.

employment in occupations related to stem (science, technology, engineering and mathematics), including mining
and manufacturing, is projected to grow to more than 9 million between 2012 and 2022, faster than most other
occupations. the manufacturing industry is facing the possibility of more than 2 million jobs going unfilled over the
next decade due to a skills gap, according to the national association of manufacturers. mining also will face
shortages.

“the u.s. mining industry estimates 50,000 new employees will be needed to meet a shortage of skilled mine
laborers and professionals as a result of retiring employees over the next several years,” said mark coomes, doe
run vice president – human resources and community relations. “missouri s&t has been a tremendous asset to
doe run. they provide us with the exceptional talent we need today and for the future.”

doe run employs nearly 50 graduates of missouri s&t (formerly the university of missouri-rolla). today, many of
those graduates are managers and leaders for doe run.

“we have a mutually beneficial relationship,” said coomes. “we help provide the real-world application of education
to students through collaborative field trips, meaningful internships, equipment donations and sponsorship of
educational programs, like explosives camp. missouri s&t challenges and educates the future workforce to
prepare them for careers in 98 degree programs, including mining engineering and metallurgical engineering, which
is important to doe run as an employer.”

forging a partnership

in 2016, doe run strengthened its relationship with missouri s&t. doe run established an internal team to help
manage and promote opportunities for interaction between the company and university. this cross-functional team
represents mining, exploration, environmental, human resources, customer relations and communications 1. the
team works closely with john eash, missouri s&t’s executive director of corporate relationships.

“we met john eash in late 2015,” said tammy stankey, doe run senior communications liaison. “with his help, we
became more intentional about how we could help the university educate students in fields that matter to us. there
are obvious ways for us to help them, including providing internships, scholarships and tours of the company’s
operations, but we also identified opportunities where the university can help doe run with research projects and
innovative problem solving.”

new opportunities for students

in 2016, one research project focused on using soil-enhancing additives to encourage plant growth at mine tailings
sites. mariam al-lami, a doctoral student in civil and environmental engineering at missouri s&t, earned recognition
from the american society of mining and reclamation (asmr) for her research, which explored revegetating
tailings impoundments as a part of the remediation of mine sites.

al-lami collaborated on the research with missouri s&t’s joel burken, curators’ distinguished professor and
chair of the civil, architectural and environmental engineering department. doe run supported the research with
$50,000 in funding over a three-year period.

research is just one way doe run and missouri s&t work together. “our goal is to identify and pursue opportunities
for the university and corporate partners to work together toward advancing knowledge and problem solving, and
becoming a trusted resource to help businesses grow and thrive,” said eash. “we want to connect industry needs with
university assets, including on-site and remote education, students, faculty, and research facilities.”




                                                      university ecovillage employs lead batteries
                                 missouri s&t’s solar-powered ecovillage microgrid will use lead batteries to power student-
                             designed and built homes. the project is a collaboration between the university’s microgird industrial
                                consortium and the advanced lead acid battery consortium, of which doe run is a member.



the relationship has blossomed to include a partnership with the advanced lead acid battery consortium. the
trade association will work alongside doe run and others as part of the university’s microgrid industrial consortium.
the consortium and its members promote a more sustainable energy future through research projects, including a
campus-based, solar-powered ecovillage microgrid that will use lead batteries to power three student-designed and
built homes on the university’s campus. the ecovillage is designed to accommodate a total of six solar houses,
providing the opportunity to grow the microgrid and the associated research partnerships.

doe run also provides funding and resources to support students pursuing degrees in mining and stem fields:

      over the past 10 years, doe run has provided $84,000 in scholarships for missouri s&t students.
      with doe run’s help, missouri s&t built a mine education building that opened in 2016. located adjacent to
      its experimental mine near campus, the building provides mine engineering students with practical
      experience.
      the company also donates equipment, such as an xrf spectrometer and other analysis tools, which allows
      students to practice technical skills.

(1) the team is led by tammy stankey (senior communications liaison), and includes mark coomes (vice president – human resources and community
relations), mark yingling (vice president – environmental, health and safety), ross conner (vice president – exploration), lou magdits (director of raw
materials), tom yanske (technical services manager), and missouri s&t alums genevieve sutton (environmental, health and safety technical supervisor)
and chris neaville (asset development director).

hands-on training for the future workforce

in addition to missouri s&t, doe run partners with several universities across the country to offer a rigorous, hands-
on internship program that recruits and trains future mining professionals. taylor fels and kathleen tew are two
such individuals.

taylor fels, environmental engineer

although he was raised in rolla, missouri, just 60
miles from doe run’s southeast missouri min-
ing and milling division, taylor fels didn’t know
much about the industry until he took a tour of
brushy creek mine.

he was a mechanical engineering major at mis-
souri s&t in 2011, but discovered environmental
and geological engineering would give him the
opportunity to do more hands-on work outdoors in
the field.
                                                                            taylor fels, doe run environmental engineer
“you can only learn so much from a text book,”            a missouri s&t grad, fels completed several internships with doe run before joining
                                                         the company full time to support environmental remediation projects, including capping
said fels. “my internship at doe run helped me                         a slag pile at glover, a former primary smelter in missouri.

realize what i wanted to do for a living.”

fels first interned with the company in 2013. he was impressed by the trust the company placed in him to do the
work. “they trusted me to make the right decisions and gave me the chance to do so,” he said.

the next summer, fels moved to minnesota to intern for a consulting firm. “about one month into that job, i realized
i liked doe run’s style better,” shared fels. “i left the consulting firm mid-summer and came back to intern here,
and i never left.”

during the doe run internship, fels managed the design and construction oversight of two storm water retention
basins. he joined other interns to present the large and important project to the company’s executive team.

“the presentation gives you the chance to see how involved everyone is in the internship program and how
interest-ed they are in what you’re doing and what you’re learning,” fels said. “it also underscores how much the
company values the contributions of the interns.”

fels continued to work nearly full time as an intern and an environmental technician until he graduated from missou-
ri s&t with a bachelor’s degree in geological engineering in may 2016. today, fels works on several remediation
projects key to helping doe run meet its vision as stewards of the mineral resources in its care.

“it’s one of the biggest things i realized as an intern – how big of a role taking care of the environment plays in the
mining industry. remediation is a large component of mining. we work very hard to be good stewards and protect
the environment,” fels said.

kathleen tew, mine planner

kathleen tew literally grew up in mines, tagging
along with her father at work all over the country.
in fact, her ability to drive a haul truck impressed
her doe run co-workers early on in her intern-
ship.

“i rode in haul trucks as a kid and spent time in
underground salt mines in ohio and new york,”
said tew. “by the time i completed college, i’d
also experienced a surface coal mine, a surface
garnet mine and a cement plant. the more i
worked on the surface, the more i realized i pre-
ferred the complexity of being underground.”

                                                                                   kathleen tew, mine planner
when she was a freshman at the south dakota
                                                            a recent mine and geological engineering graduate, tew lives her passion for
school of mines and technology, tew decided to             underground mining every day as she analyzes ore bodies and develops plans
                                                                                  for addressing mine conditions.
double major in mining engineering and manage-
ment, and geological engineering. tew accepted a
summer internship at doe run’s buick mine in 2013.

“doe run was the most comprehensive internship i did in terms of experience,” she said. “they wanted me to really
understand the mining process and everything that goes into it – from extraction to the equipment to how they use
data in planning. you’re given a chance to do real work and make an impact.”

tew says that approach helped her understand the importance of good communication between the underground
production crews and the engineering professionals. “i gained a better understanding of what i needed to do to
make sure what i was producing in my role would be applicable to their work underground,” said tew. “i knew one
month into the job that this was the kind of company where i wanted to work. everyone seemed to enjoy their jobs
and they were open and willing to teach me.”

today, tew works with the mine captain and foreman on audits, analyzing ore bodies and conducting production
planning. “the best part of my job is also the most challenging part of my job,” she said. “the conditions of the mine
are always changing and we have to constantly think of new solutions to problems, like the presence of water or
equipment breakdowns. it’s a very interesting place to be.”

recognitions and achievements
   sustainability2016.doerun.com /recognitions-and-achievements/

continuous improvement is a priority at doe run, and awards and certifications are measures of the company’s
progress. in 2016, doe run received recognition on several fronts for its commitment to safety, environmental and
product quality programs.

mine rescue hall of fame

after more than three decades of commitment to his coworkers’ safety, doe run celebrated the distinguished career
of one of their own. in july, the mine safety and health administration named denny dickerson, a recent doe run
retiree and long-time member of doe run’s maroon mine rescue team, to the national metal/nonmetal mine
rescue hall of fame.

“we are thrilled denny received national recognition for his outstanding contributions to doe run’s mine rescue
programs,” said steve setzer, captain of doe run’s maroon team. “as one of the longest-tenured team members,
denny helped prepare our mine rescuers to perform their roles as safely as possible. we’re all better because of the
level of expertise and commitment to safety that denny provided.”

dickerson retired from doe run in early 2016. his career spanned more than four decades in missouri’s mining
industry and 33 years in mine rescue.

“when i first began working in the mining industry, i didn’t know about mine rescue,” said dickerson. “while at west
fork mine in 1985, we started a mine rescue team to make sure we had the skills needed to help our fellow
employees in the event of an emergency underground. i volunteered that year and stayed on the team until my
retirement.”

dickerson helped doe run’s maroon team earn the national championship title at the mine safety and health
administration national metal/nonmetal mine rescue contest in both 2010 and 2014. his decades of preparation
and expertise were tested in 2010 when he helped with the successful evacuation of three miners trapped by a
small truck fire in mine 29.

“safety procedures are essential in the mines,” said dickerson, who credits fellow team members and underground
employees for sharing their safety knowledge with him. “i’ve had a chance to work with a lot of good people, to
teach them and learn from them all.”

doe run’s mine rescue teams undergo eight hours of rigorous monthly training and enter regional and national
competitions during the year to keep their skills sharp. even in retirement, dickerson will help train doe run’s
teams. he’s been asked to develop hypothetical mine rescue situations for practice. he wants to continue sharing
the knowledge he gained from his colleagues with the next generation of mine rescue teams, so they can continue
to keep their fellow miners safe.

dickerson also was named to the missouri mine rescue hall of fame in 2015, thanks to a nomination from a
member of the mississippi lime team, which the maroon team regularly faces in competitions.

throughout 2016, doe run’s mine rescue teams continued their tradition of excellence. the company’s maroon and
gray mine rescue teams participated in the national metal/nonmetal mine rescue contest in reno, nevada,
where garry moore and denny keene of the gray team won the national championship in the team technician
category.

at missouri university of science and technology’s annual mine rescue competition in october, the maroon team

won first place in the field competition – the highest honor for the event. the maroon team also won best in
association and second place in the first aid competition. the gray team earned fourth place in the field
competition.

see more of doe run’s mine rescue team honors.

marking safety milestones

doe run employees participate in refresher safety training every year. this commitment to safety helped the
company reach milestones at two facilities in 2016.

    in november, brushy creek mill surpassed 10 years with no lost-time accidents. the 23 employees average
    more than 10 years of experience and meet daily to share experiences and advice as to how to do their job in
    a safe way.
    fabricated products incorporated (fpi) earned its 17th perfect safety award from the national safety
    council. the casa grande, arizona, facility, a subsidiary of doe run specializing in metal fabrication, has
    earned the recognition every year since 2000. last year, it surpassed 1.6 million hours with no lost-time
    accidents.

managing environmental impact

doe run is committed to effectively managing its environmental impact by pursuing international organization for
standardization (iso) certification at many of its facilities. iso’s annual third-party audits help each site make the
best use of its environmental management system and provide guidance for reaching environmental goals.

in 2016, sri quality system registrar recognized resource recycling with the president’s award for commitment
for continuously maintaining iso certification for the last 20 years. resource recycling holds iso 9001:2008
(product quality) and iso 14001:2004 (environmental management systems) certifications.

three of the company’s mines and mills – sweetwater, brushy creek and fletcher – also maintain iso 14001:2004
certifications. in 2017, buick mine and mill, casteel mine, and mine 29 plan to pursue that certification as well. the
herculaneum facility and fpi’s vancouver, washington, site maintain iso 9001:2008 certification.




                brushy creek mill reaches 10-year milestone                                resource recycling facility recognized
       brushy creek mill’s 23 employees worked more than 10 years with         one of the largest single-site lead recycling facilities in the world,
    no lost-time accidents. the mill process includes breaking down rock ore    resource recycling earned recognitions for its commitment to
                 to separate out lead, zinc and copper minerals.                                   customer service in 2016.

building relationships with customers and the community

doe run’s commitment to maintain strong relationships with its stakeholders, particularly customers and the
community, earned the company several recognitions:

   • w
      inchester ammunition chose resource recycling from 22 companies as its top metals supplier of the
      year. the recognition was based on doe run’s high scores in product quality, on-time delivery, pricing
      and service.

   • alex sellers, a safety analyst at resource recycling, was honored with the missouri community
      betterment adult leadership award from missouri community betterment for his efforts to improve the
      community through the salem initiative. salem is one of the largest towns near doe run’s mining and
      recycling operations, and serves as home to many doe run employees.

   • d
      oe run received an apex award for publication excellence from the business communications report
      for its 2015 sustainability report website, which updates its community and stakeholders about how the
      company operates sustainably to balance social, economic and environmental responsibilities. the award
      is based on excellence in graphic design, editorial content and overall communications effectiveness.
      this is doe run’s fifth apex award for its annual sustainability report.

health and safety performance
   sustainability2016.doerun.com /health-and-safety-performance/


la6: (403-1) occupational safety and health

employee blood-lead average
the adjusted occupational health and safety administration's (osha) standard for medical reassignment of an
employee is 53 micrograms of lead per deciliter of whole blood (“μg/dl”).(1) doe run sets its maximum limit at 30
μg/dl. if any employee has a blood-lead average that reaches 30 μg/dl, they are temporarily reassigned to other
work.

 (in μg/dl)                                                                                  2014    2015    2016

 southeast missouri mining and milling division (semo), including remediation and            9.78    9.67    8.28
 demonstration plant

 metals division (resource recycling, herculaneum, glover) (2)                               15.20   15.01   14.83

 corporate headquarters(3)                                                                   n/a     n/a     n/a

 fabricated products inc. (fpi)                                                              7.74    7.40    7.80

 average                                                                                     11.49   11.02   10.20


employee blood-lead data
doe run monitors and reports the number of employees with a blood-lead average greater than 19 μg/dl in the
calendar year. the adjusted osha’s standard for medical reassignment of an employee is 53 μg/dl.(1) doe run
sets its maximum limit at 30 μg/dl.

 (# of employees with blood-lead levels >19 ug/dl)                2014 2015 2016

 semo                                                             74     38     23

 metals division (resource recycling, herculaneum, glover) (2)    148    148    134

 corporate headquarters(3)                                        n/a    n/a    n/a

 fpi                                                              1      2      2

 total                                                            223    188    159




total lost-time accidents
according to osha, lost time is defined as a nonfatal traumatic injury that causes any loss of time from work beyond
the day or shift it occurred, or a nonfatal nontraumatic illness/disease that causes disability at any time.

 (number of employees)                                      2014 2015 2016

 semo (includes glover)                                        2          3          7

 metals division (resource recycling, herculaneum)             4          7          6

 corporate headquarters                                        0          0          0

 fpi                                                           0          0          0

 total number of work-related fatalities, companywide          0          1          0

 total                                                         6          11         13




total osha recordables and msha reportables
total osha recordables and mine safety and health administration (msha) reportables are incidents that require
lost time, restricted duty, prescription medication, involve broken bones or stitches, involve imbedded matter in the
eye, or burns of a defined size and severity.

 (number of incidents)                                   2014 2015 2016

 semo (includes glover)                                  23        33          33

 metals division (resource recycling, herculaneum)       35        44          34

 corporate headquarters                                  0         0           0

 fpi                                                     1         0           1

 total                                                   59        77          68




total case incident rate (tcir)
tcir is the number of osha recordable and msha reportable incidents per 200,000 personnel hours worked.
osha recordables are incidents that require lost time, restricted duty, prescription medication, involve broken bones
or stitches, involve imbedded matter in the eye, or burns of a defined size and severity.

 (tcir rate)                                             2014 2015 2016

 semo (includes glover)                                  2.6       3.6         4.3

 metals division (resource recycling, herculaneum)       9.3       12.2        9.7

 corporate headquarters                                  0         0           0

 fpi                                                     2.3       0           2.4

 total company                                           3.9       5.6         5.5

(1) the osha general industry lead standard is written in units of μg of pb/100 g of whole blood. doe run reports
their blood lead values in μg of pb/ dl of whole blood, and all values in this report are presented as μg/dl. the
conversion used is 1 μg/100g = 1.05 ug/dl.

(2) glover is included in the metals division for blood-lead data only due to the nature of their work.
(3) employees at corporate headquarters are not required to be tested.

workforce summary
  sustainability2016.doerun.com /workforce-summary/


g4-10 (102-8) number of employees by division (calendar year)

(number of employees)(1)                                     2014          2015          2016

southeast missouri mining and milling division (semo)        883           800(2)        700(2)

metals division (resource recycling, herculaneum)            355           312(2)        313

corporate headquarters                                       143           124(2)        130

fabricated products inc. (fpi)                               42            42            41

total number of employees(1)                                 1,423         1,278(2)      1,184(2)




2016 male and female employees by division (calendar year)

                                 2014               2015                        2016

(number of employees)            male    female male              female male                  female

semo                             812     71         733(2)        67 (2)        652(2)         48 (2)

metals division                  331     24         293(2)        19 (2)        296(2)         17 (2)

corporate headquarters           86      57         74 (2)        50 (2)        76 (2)         54 (2)

fpi                              36      6          36            6             35             6

total number of employees        1,265   158        1,136(2)      142(2)        1,059(2)       125(2)




number of employees by employment type (calendar year)

(number of positions)            2014    2015       2016

permanent hourly positions       969     898        846

permanent salary positions       427     375        331

temporary positions              20      1          3

contracted positions             7       4          4

total number of employees        1,423   1,278(2)   1,184(2)

2016 male and female employees by employment type (calendar year)

                                 2014                 2015                     2016

 (number of positions)           male    female male               female male            female

 permanent hourly positions      944     25           874          24          822        24

 permanent salary positions      296     131          257          118         232        99

 temporary positions             18      2            1            0           1          2

 contracted positions            7       0            4            0           4          0

 total number of employees       1,265   158          1,136(2)     142(2)      1,059(2)   125(2)

(1) employee counts for g4-10 include all categories of employees.
(2) lower counts reflect workforce reductions in 2015 and 2016, retirements, and open positions.

la1 (401-1) new employee hires by gender (calendar year)

total number(1) and rate(2) of new employee hires entering employment during the reporting period broken down by
gender.

                                 2014                     2015                 2016

                                 number       rate        number       rate    number         rate

 male                            91           89.2%       22 (3)       91.7%   85 (4)         96.6%

 female                          11           10.8%       2(3)         8.3%    3(4)           3.4%

 total number of employees       102                      24 (3)               88 (4)

(1) employee counts exclude hiring and termination of temporary employees. historically, the majority of the hourly
workforce has been drawn from the temporary pool of employees.
(2) the rate is calculated by dividing the total number of hires in the reported calendar year by the total number of
employees as of december 31.
(3) reduced hiring in 2015 reflects the company’s adjustment to market conditions.
(4) new hires primarily replaced those who retired or left voluntarily.

employees leaving by gender (calendar year)
total number(1) and rate(2) of employees leaving employment during the reporting period broken down by gender.

                                 2014                     2015                 2016

                                 number       rate        number       rate    number         rate

 male                            102          91.1%       138(3)       91.4%   132(3)         86.8%

 female                          10           8.9%        13 (3)       8.6%    20 (3)         13.1%

 total number of employees       112                 151(3)              152(3)

(1) employee counts for la1 exclude hiring and termination of temporary employees. historically, the majority of the
hourly workforce has been drawn from the temporary pool of employees.
(2) the rate is calculated by dividing the total number of terminations in the reported calendar year broken down by
gender.
(3) higher departure counts reflect a workforce reduction and retirements.

new employee hires by age group (calendar year)
total number(1) and rate(2) of new employee hires entering employment during the reporting period broken down by
age group.

                                 2014                2015                2016

                                 number     rate     number     rate     number        rate

 30 or younger                   48         47.1%    14 (3)     58.3%    47 (4)        53.4%

 31 to 40                        27         26.5%    3(3)       12.5%    16 (4)        18.2%

 41 to 50                        16         15.7%    4(3)       16.7%    18 (4)        20.5%

 51 and above                    11         10.8%    3(3)       12.5%    7(4)          8.0%

 total number of employees       102                 24 (3)              88 (4)

(1) employee counts for la1 exclude hiring and termination of temporary employees. historically, the majority of the
hourly workforce has been drawn from the temporary pool of employees.
(2) the rate is calculated by dividing the total number of hires in the reported calendar year by the total number of
employees as of december 31.
(3) reduced hiring in 2015 reflects the company’s adjustment to market conditions.
(4) new hires primarily replaced those that retired or left voluntarily.

employees leaving by age group (calendar year)
total number(1) and rate(2) of employees leaving employment during the reporting period broken down by age
group.

                                 2014                   2015                    2016

                                 number     rate        number    rate          number    rate

 30 or younger                   20         17.9%       14        9.3%          20        13.1%

 31 to 40                        22         19.6%       30        19.9%         27        17.6%

 41 to 50                        25         22.3%       31        20.5%         29        19.0%

 51 and above                    45         40.2% (3)   76        50.3% (3)     76        50.0% (3)

 total number of employees       112                    151                     152

(1) employee counts for la1 exclude hiring and termination of temporary employees. historically, the majority of the
hourly workforce has been drawn from the temporary pool of employees.
(2) the rate is calculated by dividing the total number of terminations in the reported calendar year by the total
number of employees as of december 31.
(3) in 2014, 28% of this category were retirements. in 2015, 54% were retirements and in 2016 54.5% represented
retirements.

doe run continues to strive to accurately measure its environmental, economic and social data. due to rounding,
some percentage totals may not always equal 100 percent, but are accurate.

workforce training
   sustainability2016.doerun.com /workforce-training/


la9 (404-1) average hours of training per employee (calendar year)

 (number of training hours)                           2015       2016

 total number of training hours                       22,237     16,745(2)

 total number of employees                            1,364(1)   1,333

 average number of training hours per employee        16.30      12.56(2)

(1) total number of employees reflect total number of employees who received training during annual training
periods and may not reflect year-end employee counts.
(2) 2016 training hours are a conservative estimate due to changes in the training hours recording system.

battery recycling: delivering on commitments
   sustainability2016.doerun.com /battery-recycling-delivering-commitments/

each day, more than 250 million vehicles hit u.s. roads thanks to the power of lead batteries. drivers might not
realize many of their journeys began in the viburnum trend with lead and zinc mined by doe run. and when
millions of those lead batteries reach the end of their life, they return to missouri to be recycled at doe run’s
resource recycling facility, one of the largest single-site lead recycling facilities in the world.

lead batteries are the most recycled product in the u.s. – more than 99 percent are returned for recycling. as global
lead battery demand is expected to grow 3.4 percent each year through 2021, continuous improvement at resource
recycling is important to meet environmental requirements and customer needs.

in 2016, doe run continued a multiyear, multi-million dollar investment to update the plant’s breaking, separation
and neutralization (bsn) system. the project improves safety and environmental performance while helping keep
the facility competitive. the project improved processing capability and reduced operating and maintenance costs.

before 1991, resource recycling was a primary lead smelter – turning lead ore into raw materials used for
production. doe run converted the smelter into a battery recycling facility to meet both the growing demand for lead
and public demand for sustainable products. doe run has continued to invest in upgrades, like the bsn system, so
resource recycling can keep pace with evolving technology.

“we began this modernization process in 2013, including construction of a new baghouse using a negative-pressure
ventilation system to minimize the potential of emissions,” said bruce chamberlain, operations manager of doe
run’s metals division*. “in november 2016, the new bsn system became operational, helping us improve our
processes, as well as the needs of our customers and the community.”

resource recycling recovers more than just lead for its battery customers. the polypropylene plastic casing also
can be recycled into new battery cases. the new bsn system produces quality recycled plastic by creating fewer
opportunities for cross contamination between the polypropylene and other materials, recovering at least 98 percent
of all polypropylene for reuse.

doe run partnered with engitec, an italian company and world leader in building metal recycling facilities. local
contractors at lee mechanical in park hills, missouri, and schneider electric in st. louis were responsible for
installing the new bsn equipment.

our battery recycling process
more than 99 percent of lead batteries are recycled in the u.s., which keeps 2.4 million tons of batteries out of
landfills. see diagram below of how doe run employees recycle the lead and other materials from used automobile
batteries, giving those components new life.


designed for safety

to power a vehicle or store energy from solar panels, lead batteries need to be compact, but powerful. a chemical
reaction in the battery occurs whenever it generates or stores electricity. that’s why safety is an important factor in
improvements to resource recycling operations. during the recycling process, workers could be exposed to the
elements that cause the chemical reaction, like battery acid, which is collected and neutralized in the bsn by adding
hydrated lime.

“the safety of our employees was key in the new bsn design, which uses automation and electronic controls to
reduce exposure to materials from the batteries,” said rick white, bsn manager of doe run’s metals division. “the
new bsn protects employees and improves equipment reliability.”

the system design also includes shields that limit potential spillage of plastic and lead-bearing materials being
shredded. these improvements are already contributing to reduced blood-lead levels (the trace amount of lead the
body may absorb through exposure) in resource recycling employees in 2017.

designed for the future

other design features of the new bsn system prepare resource recycling for changes in the battery industry. the
updates mean doe run can now recycle increasingly popular absorbed glass mat (agm) batteries. the industry
expects demand to increase for these lighter, long-lasting lead-based batteries over the next decade, particularly for
vehicles and storage of renewable energy.

as innovation drives changes in lead battery technologies, doe run continues to invest in plant improvements.

“lead-based batteries start 1 billion cars worldwide and store energy from the growing wind and solar industries.
doe run plays a critical role in powering our global economy,” said chamberlain.

lead recycling fast facts

lead batteries are the most recycled and sustainable consumer product in the u.s.

    lead batteries are recycled at a rate of 99 percent, compared to just 67 percent of paper, 55 percent of
    aluminum and 34 percent of glass, according to the environmental protection agency (epa).
    by comparison, only a few companies can recycle lithium-ion batteries, and less than 1 percent of lithium is
    recycled.
    approximately 90 percent of the lead doe run mines goes into lead-based batteries.
    since it opened in 1994, doe run’s resource recycling facility has recycled approximately 324 million
    batteries, enough to circle the globe.
    each year, doe run recycles enough batteries to cover about 137 football fields, keeping used batteries out
    of landfills.

rethinking water management
   sustainability2016.doerun.com /rethinking-water-management/

brushy creek mill employees faced a challenge when the quality of its lead and zinc concentrates unexpectedly
declined. an investigation discovered that poor process water quality was to blame. thanks to collaboration within
the team, and with water partner neo solutions, doe run discovered a sustainable solution located 1,200-feet
underneath the mill.

brushy creek mill processes approximately 50,000 tons of lead concentrates each year. the lead ore also contains
smaller amounts of zinc and copper. processing these other elements helps doe run diversify its revenue streams
and fulfill its sustainability commitments, getting the most from all the natural resources in its mining operations.

however, a decline in concentrate quality was caused by the process water being used in flotation, which separates
lead, zinc and copper minerals from the mined rock. as good stewards of the estimated 38 million gallons of water
that flow into doe run’s six mines and other facilities, brushy creek mill was using water pumped from the mine and
held in its tailings ponds for the flotation process to separate the minerals.

“over time, the use and reuse of the process water made the quality too poor to filter lead concentrates effectively,”
said brian mangogna, mill manager at the southeast missouri mining & milling division (semo). “the lead
concentrates contained too much moisture, so they had to dry longer before being shipped. it affected our business,
our transportation partners and our customers.”




                                             managing water underground and above
                       brian mangogna, semo mill manager, also oversees water management projects at the site, such
                                                  as this diversion path for stormwater.




a solution right under their feet

doe run and neo solutions, a water management partner, evaluated a number of solutions that would both improve
the quality of lead and zinc concentrates and maintain the company’s stewardship of the water at its property.
instead of reusing process water after it reaches the tailings ponds, they developed a system that enables them to
tap the high quality, naturally occurring mine water directly from brushy creek mine below.

an adjustment in the piping now allows the mine water to enter directly into the mill. not only was the quality better

suited for the flotation process, the year-round 65-degree water temperature has provided unexpected benefits.

“we know temperature plays a role in the quality of outputs for our mill,” said mangogna. “but the switch to using
mine water improved zinc recovery and mill efficiency more than anticipated, especially during the winter months
when the outdoor tailings pond is very cold.”

today, a cross-functional team at the mill stays in communication to make the process work. they monitor water
within the mines, in the tailings pond and in the mill process and make adjustments as needed. for example, during
heavy rainfall, the mill may need to draw more water from the tailings pond than the mine to help balance the
increased volume caused by the rain.

“we often celebrate when we make substantial leaps by building new technologies, but simple changes and
improvements can create significant positive change,” said mark yingling – vice president, environment, health and
safety. “with the new mine water process, in combination with the capabilities of the water treatment plant added to
that site in 2014, brushy creek mill serves as an example of how we can optimize our infrastructure to be a better
steward of our natural resources and environmental responsibilities.”

the team from brushy creek mill has shared its knowledge about managing water systems for sustainable reuse of
water resources with doe run’s other locations. in 2017, fletcher mine and mill began similar work to pump
underground water for use at the mill.

additional water management efforts

in 2017, doe run will complete a $75 million overhaul of its water management program at semo. the five-year
program to upgrade and advance the company’s water management adds high-tech water treatment plants that use
a chemical process to treat mine and mill water to meet permit limits. two water treatment plants, costing $28.6
million, opened in 2016 at sweetwater mine and in viburnum. a final plant at west fork mine is scheduled to be
completed in the summer of 2017.

the new plants improve flexibility and treatment options at the facilities. the plants can treat up to 10,000 gallons of
water per minute, 5,500 gallons more than the first plant, which was constructed at brushy creek mine. the final
plant at west fork mine will be able to process up to 18,000 gallons per minute.

“we’ve learned that we needed more flexibility in our water capacity given the types of weather we encounter in
missouri, and made the necessary adjustments,” said samantha anderson, senior environmental scientist at semo.

the four completed water treatment plants processed more than 5 billion gallons of water in 2016.

remediation for revitalization
   sustainability2016.doerun.com /remediation-for-revitalization/

when the industrial revolution transformed the american economy, communities blossomed around new jobs and
emerging industries. major employers, like the lead smelter in herculaneum, missouri, drove economic growth and
prosperity in these company towns. nearly 100 years later, those company towns now face a common challenge.
how do you drive economic growth after business changes and environmental regulations have altered the
landscape, closing 70,000 u.s. factories, and eliminated more than 5 million manufacturing jobs since 2000?

doe run and the city of herculaneum are determined to overcome those hurdles and use the former smelter site as
a catalyst for renewed economic vitality in the community.

“we have a unified vision among the city of herculaneum, our residents and doe run to work together to improve
the city by creating new jobs, growing our tax base and providing quality of life for our community,” said jim kasten,
city administrator for herculaneum. “today, doe run owns some of the biggest pieces of property in the city, and our
hope is that these areas can be repurposed and transformed for industrial business opportunities over the next 10
years.”

from a state-of-the-art port on the mississippi river to an all-abilities playground in herculaneum, doe run
remediation work embraces a responsibility to bring new opportunities to the sites and communities once occupied
by its mining and metal operations.

preparing for future economy

doe run and its predecessor, st. joseph lead company, were a big contributor to building and expanding the river,
rail and road infrastructure that spurred development in the town of herculaneum. thanks to investments in
remediation at the lead smelter and updates to the on-site infrastructure, doe run helped to bring new industry to
the area through the riverview commerce park llc (rcp) shipping port.

in 2016, doe run sold 18 acres of previously leased riverfront property to rcp, securing a long-term commitment to
herculaneum. rcp also increased shipping capacity in herculaneum by opening a second loading dock.

“we are pleased that our work to repurpose the property helped draw new opportunities to the area,” said chris
neaville, doe run’s asset development director. “as we continue the cleanup process at the smelter, we hope to
identify additional ways the land can benefit local businesses and the herculaneum community.”

doe run remediation efforts continue at the former smelter property and surrounding area. in 2016, crews removed
5,000 tons of lead-bearing materials from the plant for recycling. other work at the site included moving slag (a
glassy, sand-like material leftover from smelting) situated on the north end of the property to a new slag storage area
at the south end, and the next step will be to cap it with soil. all remediation work is done under guidance from the
environmental protection agency.

as part of its remediation commitments, doe run continues work on the land, houses and public buildings located
immediately next to the smelter property. several houses and other buildings already have been removed, including
assumption catholic church, so the company can prepare those properties for reuse.

                                                           part of the community
                       dennis mitchell, supervisor at doe run’s herculaneum smelter, visits with his grown daughter and
                              granddaughters at kade’s playground, an all-abilities playground in herculaneum.




bringing value to the community

when dennis mitchell began his job at the herculaneum smelter fresh out of high school he never imagined that 43
years later he’d prepare nearby property for a playground that he now visits with his own grandchildren.

mitchell spent his entire career with doe run and called herculaneum home for most of that time. for 12 years,
mitchell served as general maintenance supervisor at the smelter. today, mitchell oversees doe run remediation at
the site. this includes soil remediation and landscaping of land once owned by doe run to create kade’s
playground, an all-inclusive playground that is accessible to children of all ages and abilities.

“for people who have spent their lives in herculaneum, doe run has always been the cog in the wheel that kept
this city viable,” mitchell said. “even a small contribution to support a playground helps make herculaneum an
attractive community that can sustain families for years to come.”

mitchell and his wife raised their daughter in herculaneum. now, when she visits with mitchell’s two
granddaughters, they go to kade’s playground together.

the playground opened in 2015 and is named in memory of kade bauman, a local child who used a wheelchair and
wanted to bring an inclusive playground to jefferson county. kade’s playground was designed so that children of all
abilities can play together. all structures include ramps so wheelchairs can access them. the playground also has
high-back swings, a spongy playing surface and musical instruments.

“doe run helped build this town. as a good neighbor, we are doing everything we can to maintain herculaneum as
a place where people want to live and raise their families,” mitchell said.

                                                           glover remediation
                        doe run continued remediation at the former smelter, including removing lead material from the
                             blast furnace building and capping the slag storage area with soil and native grass.




additional remediation projects

as the last remaining lead mining company in the area, doe run manages remediation of several historic mine sites
that once belonged to its predecessor companies.

doe run continues remediation at the former smelter in glover, missouri. glover currently serves as a facility for
storing and shipping doe run’s ore concentrates, but could one day have the potential to serve as an industrial
park. in 2016, crews removed lead material and equipment from the glover blast furnace building and baghouse.
crews also capped the slag pile and planted grass to cover it.

“our hope is that the glover facility – when it’s decommissioned and ready for repurposing – will be a good site for
other employers,” said neaville. “the area has railroad access and is remote, with about 4,000 acres of buffer land.
we think it offers many benefits that would be attractive to several industries.”

doe run also oversees remediation at the block p mine site in montana. block p was owned by doe run’s
predecessor, st. joseph lead company. in 2017, the company will reroute a stream near the mine. doe run crews
also are working to cover chat piles to minimize contact with mine waste in treece, kansas. the chat piles were left
by kansas exploration, a st. joseph lead company subsidiary.

environmental spending
   sustainability2016.doerun.com /environmental-spending/


en31: total fiscal environmental spending

                                                                    2014         2015          2016

 total capital spending and operating expense                       63,420,053   50,189,445    61,118,393

 remediation spending

   historic properties                                              5,533,608    4,299,618     1,065,582(1)

   operating properties                                             4,901,332    8,690,056     8,891,423

 total remediation spending                                         10,434,939   12,989,674    9,957,005

 total fiscal environmental spending, including remediation         73,854,992   63,179,119    71,075,398

(1) remediation spending decreased in 2016 following the completion of major projects on historic properties in
jasper county in 2015.

environmental performance
   sustainability2016.doerun.com /environmental-performance/


indicator key

numbers within each green bar represent the quantifiable gri indicators included in our level c report. see the full
gri index for details.

en1 (301-1) materials consumed (fiscal year)

units and substances key
metric ton(s): mt

direct/indirect

 source (mt)               2014         2015         2016

 direct materials used     57,120(1)    43,084(1)    31,489

 indirect materials used   60,394(1)    43,711(1)    54,043

 total materials used      117,514      86,795       85,532




renewable/non-renewable

 source (mt)                         2014           2015        2016

 renewable materials used            115            101         97

 non-renewable materials used        117,399 (1)    86,528(1)   85,435

 total materials used                117,514        86,795      85,532

(1) overall reductions in the 2014 and 2015 totals reflect reduced production due to the closure of the herculaneum
smelter.

en2 (301-2) direct recycled input materials (fiscal year)

units and substances key
metric ton(s): mt

 source (mt)                                                             2014      2015         2016

 slag                                                                    14,036    20,600       13,480

 batteries (mt of pb)                                                    82,860    97,582       86,091

 lead-bearing material                                                   33,621    37,582       36,622

 iron-containing material                                                   15,142        13,906        8,812

 total                                                                      145,659 (1)   169,670 (1)   145,005 (1)

 percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials             55%           66%           63%

(1) overall fluctuation in materials recycled reflects the availability of materials.

en3 (302-1) energy consumption (calendar year)

direct non-renewable energy source
units and substances key
gigajoule(s): gj

 source (gj)                               2014            2015           2016

 coke                                      509,071 (1)     472,232        529,612

 explosives                                29,289          28,275         24,486

 natural gas                               218,910 (1)     151,726        131,663

 petroleum fuel                            321,992         277,685 (2)    265,809

 propane                                   587,933         532,992        486,552

 total direct energy consumption 1,667,196(1)              1,462,910(2)   1,438,122




indirect non-renewable energy source

 source (gj)           2014         2015            2016

 electricity           1,489,964 1,490,784 1,434,721

 total energy use 3,157,160 2,953,694 2,872,843

(1) reductions following 2014 are due to the closure of the herculaneum smelter.
(2) decrease reflects increased fuel efficiency and decreased production at southeast missouri mining and milling
division.

en5 (302-3) energy intensity of all sources (calendar year)

units and substances key
metric ton(s): mt
gigajoule(s): gj
ore: ore milled at mining operations
pb: lead produced at alloying, casting, and secondary smelting and fabricating operations

                         division                                  units           2014 2015 2015

 southeast missouri mining and milling division (semo)      gj/mt ore milled       0.29    0.28    0.35

 metals division (resource recycling, herculaneum)          gj/mt pb produced 9.2          9.0     10.4

 fabricated products inc. (fpi)                             gj/mt pb produced 1.2          1.2     1.4


en15 (305-1 [scope 1]) total direct greenhouse gas emissions (calendar year)

units and substances
metric ton(s) of carbon dioxide equivalent (mt co2e)

                                                                                     2014         2015       2016

 scope 1 (direct emissions of greenhouse gases, carbon disclosure project,           159,400      154,411    144,778 (1)
 e.g., direct combustion of fuels)

(1) overall reduction in 2016 is due to reduced fuel needs due to curtailed production and a warmer winter than
usual.

en16 (305-2 [scope 2]) total indirect greenhouse gas emissions (calendar year)

units and substances
metric ton(s) of carbon dioxide equivalent (mt co 2e)

                                                                         2014       2015           2016

 scope 2 (emissions from direct purchase of energy, e.g., electricity)   304,700    289,612 (1)    293,131

(1) overall reduction in 2015 is due to lower production rates in herculaneum.

en17 (305-3) other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions (calendar year)

units and substances
metric ton(s) of carbon dioxide equivalent (mt co2e)

                                                                                     2014        2015        2016

 scope 3 (indirect emissions from transportation and employees’ commute, etc.)       13,500      11,275(1)   13,197


(1) reduction in 2015 is primarily related to reduced travel budgets in that calendar year.

en18 (305-4) greenhouse gas emission intensity

units and substances key
carbon dioxide equivalent: co2e
ore: ore milled at mining operations
pb: lead produced at alloying, casting, and secondary smelting and fabricating operations

                           division                                 units           2014 2015 2016

 southeast missouri mining and milling division (semo)     mt co 2e/mt ore milled   0.05   0.05   0.06

 metals division (resource recycling, herculaneum)         mt co 2e/mt pb produced 1.2     1.1    1.4

 fabricated products inc. (fpi)                            mt co 2e/mt pb produced 0.08    0.08   0.09


en21 (305-7) significant air emissions (calendar year)

units and substances key
metric ton(s): mt

 source (mt by type and weight)       2014     2015        2016

 ammonia (nh3)                        0.11     0.06        0.06

 antimony (sb)                        0.01     0.00        0.00

 arsenic (as)                         0.26     0.25        0.26

 cadmium (cd)                         0.19     0.18        0.17

 carbon monoxide (co)                 10,181   11,406(1)   15,497(2)

 copper (cu)                          0.39     0.42        0.33

 hazardous air pollutants (hap)       0.79     0.65        1.08

 lead (pb)                            8.6      5.7         5.1

 nickel (ni)                          0.04     0.03        0.03

 nitrogen oxides (no x)               136      43 (3)      36 (3)

 particulate matter (pm)              188      178         199

 sulfur dioxide (so 2)                1,649    2,539(1)    2,199

 sulfuric acid (h 2so4)               2.5      2.4         2.6

 volatile organic compounds (voc)     9.4      9.4         8.0

 zinc (zn)                            1.1      1.2         0.85

 total                                12,178   14,187      17,950

(1) an updated emissions factor was used to calculate carbon monoxide and sulfur dioxide emissions in 2015.
(2) increase reflects a change in production requirements, which can vary year to year.
(3) a change in test methodology in 2015 resulted in an updated nox emission factor.

en22 (306-1) total water discharge (calendar year)

units and substances key
ppb: parts per billion

 source (average ppb/year) (1)                    2014     2015     2016

 lead                                             124      132      56

 zinc                                             444      431      336

 copper                                           6        6        4

 total water discharge (million gallons/year)     14,349   19,333   19,837

(1) all data sources represented are reported in average ppb/year to be consistent with permit reporting
requirements.

lead’s late rebound
   sustainability2016.doerun.com /leads-late-rebound/

lead-based batteries start nearly 1 billion vehicles every day. they also provide energy storage for mobile
communications, data centers and emergency equipment, and help to move commercial products in warehouses
across our country. lead batteries are truly foundational to the energy needs of modern society. at the end of their
life, lead batteries are the single most recycled consumer product, their lead metal and plastic cases recovered,
recycled and reused for new batteries. given the value of lead in modern society, tracking the changes to the global
market is a daily function of doe run.

2016 was a fickle year for lead with the lead metal prices dipping to $0.73 per pound in january before making a
late comeback toward the end of the year. the long-awaited lead rebound meant mining companies like doe run
that had taken measures over the past two to three years to weather low lead prices could breathe a sigh of relief.

looking back

lower lead metal prices seen particularly in 2015 and 2016 were driven by a cooling-off period in global economic
growth brought on by loan defaults in portugal, spain and greece, and a softening of the chinese economy.

during the last decade, china’s double-digit economic growth spurred the global economy and the lead market. but
in 2015 and 2016, china’s growth moderated to a more sustainable rate of 5 to 6 percent annual growth. as a
result, we entered a period of oversupply in the global lead market.

“as a global business, the economies around the world impact our company,” said steve batts, vice president –
southeast missouri operations. “we adjusted our output to adapt to the market and enable us to operate
sustainably.”

doe run was not the only company that adjusted its mine output. several other large mines also curtailed
production, including mines in ireland and australia. globally, newly mined lead output declined 2.8 percent year-on-
year and refined production (primary and secondary) increased by 2.7 percent.

newly mined lead supplies about 45 percent of the global demand for lead. the remaining nearly 55 percent of
refined lead is supplied from lead recycling. in 2014 and 2015, there was tightness in the scrap lead metal market,
which supplies north american battery recyclers (secondary smelters). for battery recyclers like doe run, this
meant increased costs for scrap lead and narrower margins. the closure of a secondary smelter in california in
2016 did not completely ease the tightness since the market is further complicated by exports of lead battery scrap.

lead demand on the rise

                                                          sustainable energy growth
                        the use of lead batteries in wind and solar energy storage, the expansion of cellular networks in
                       developing countries, and hybrid electric vehicles represents growing demand for this versatile and
                                                                 recyclable metal.



future demand for lead will be driven by growing demand for mobility in developing countries, greater electrification
of vehicles and the rapid expansion of renewable energy storage around the globe. these technological changes –
powered by lead batteries – have analysts forecasting global demand to grow by 2 percent year-over-year. after
years of depressed prices because of an oversupply of lead, companies like doe run should benefit from increased
demand, and analysts expect demand to outpace supply of newly mined lead ore by 2023. anticipated new mine
projects will be required to meet the demand.

today, global lead demand remains driven largely by china. in 2016, vehicle production in china increased 14.5
percent year-over-year for a record production of 28 million vehicles. china also continues to expand its mobile
network, adding on nearly 2 million new transmission stations in 2016. each cellular base station uses more than a
metric tonne of lead in standby batteries, which provide emergency power.

in the u.s., ford motor company’s 2016 decision to forego plans for an automotive assembly plant in mexico and
instead expand one of its michigan plants, bodes well for doe run and the battery manufacturers we supply.
separately, the country’s largest battery producer, johnson controls inc., also announced it will invest $245 million
in new battery production in the u.s. and mexico between 2016 and 2020.

a promising future

lead is the most recycled metal on the planet. in fact, more than 99 percent of lead batteries are recycled in north
america and europe primarily as a result of the closed-loop supply chain and the intrinsic value that spent lead
batteries retain. their lead can be recycled and returned to its main purpose infinitely. the plastic casings are also
recycled and reused as are nearly all materials used to build this highly efficient and affordable energy storage
device.

but not everyone agrees that the battery of the past will meet the needs of the future. other battery chemistries
using often more expensive metals (such as lithium, cobalt and rare earth minerals) are competing to be the
preferred energy storage for electric vehicles, home emergency power, and other motive and stationary uses. in
most cases, these other battery chemistries cannot be economically recycled when they are no longer suitable for
their original use. for example, less than 1 percent of lithium is recycled. this creates a glut of spent or partially

spent batteries (primarily lithium batteries) that are being stored in warehouses or refitted for other, temporary uses.

conversely, affordable lead batteries are produced, recycled and manufactured over and over again. the industry is
working to advance the understanding of this quiet workhorse and help establish industry standards for battery
manufacturing and recycling, so that society can use and reuse its natural resources in the most economical fashion
possible. learn more about how batteries are made and recycled here.

next-generation lead batteries

lead’s high density, durability in punishing climates and untapped energy potential are some of the reasons
researchers are exploring next-generation lead-based batteries. some of this research is taking place here in
missouri at missouri university of science and technology (missouri s&t) in rolla.

“missouri s&t is exploring the future of energy storage, electric grid stability and the application of renewable
energy for a more sustainable energy future,” said angie rolufs, director of the center for sustainability, missouri
s&t. “doe run participates in and supports this research through its membership on missouri s&t’s microgrid
consortium and its research projects, including the design, management and measurement of the efficacy of lead-
based battery energy storage and deployment in a small, multi-use campus community.”

around the world, the advanced lead acid battery consortium (alabc), of which doe run is a member, is
researching methods to improve lead battery performance and lifespan for micro-hybrid vehicles and renewable
energy storage. for example, recent alabc vehicle demonstrations with ford, hyundai and kia have shown that
48-volt lead batteries in micro-hybrid applications can result in fuel savings and carbon dioxide reductions of up to 16
percent. advanced lead batteries are helping car manufacturers meet increasingly stringent standards for fuel
consumption and emissions around the world.

the alabc and its partners plan more than $4 million in research projects with universities, national laboratories
and members from across the globe during its current program period.

“while the outlook for lead in the long term remains strong, fluctuations in metals pricing caused by social, political
and economic influences are apt to continue to keep things interesting,” said jose hansen, vice president sales and
marketing at doe run.

doe run’s business also is impacted by the global market for other metals found in its mines. read more about the
market performance and everyday uses of zinc here.

zinc in the spotlight
   sustainability2016.doerun.com /zinc-in-the-spotlight/

of the three major metals contained in the ore that doe run mines – lead, copper and zinc – in 2016, zinc stole the
show reaching pricing levels not seen since early 2010. because zinc is widely used in galvanized steel for
construction and the automotive industries, this mineral is playing an important role in everyday life, contributing to
its high market demand. the year of zinc started with prices in the mid-60 cents per pound range for most of
january. but by mid-july, the price reached $1.00 per pound and continued to climb throughout the year reaching its
peak at $1.32 per pound in late november.

u.s. zinc use has grown due to a strong performance in the automotive sector. the extended period of strong
demand with diminished resources has created a dramatic decline in zinc concentrate reserves to meet global
needs. global inventories of zinc concentrates have fallen from more than 1.1 million metric tonnes in 2014 to 0.2
million metric tonnes at the end of 2016.

“global demand significantly outpaced supply in three of four quarters of 2016. the limited supply was the result of
mine closures, as well as a smelter closing in china, as the country continues to address environmental impacts
and government corruption,” said john likarish, manager of marketing at doe run. “as with most commodities,
demand from china drove the market with analysts reporting that zinc imports to china were up 8 percent year on
year.”

major zinc mine closures in 2016 in australia and ireland followed the downsizing of mine operations at peru,
australia and kazakhstan in late 2015. in total, zinc contained in concentrates declined by 850,000 metric tonnes in
2016.

“for the next few years, we can expect to see less zinc metal availability and further increases in zinc prices and
regional premiums,” likarish added.

zinc: essential for life

as one of the most versatile minerals, zinc plays an important role in infrastructure, like bridges, buildings and
transportation, but also is essential to life as an important micro-nutrient for productive crops and essential dietary
mineral requirements in both humans and animals.

more than 65 percent of zinc sold is used to galvanize steel used in the construction, automotive and machinery
industries to prevent corrosion, providing longer life to steel and the structures that depend on it.

as lawmakers look at updating aging infrastructure across the u.s., domestic zinc producers could play an important
role. americans overwhelmingly support using domestically sourced minerals for infrastructure projects, according to
a poll from morning consult. roughly 83 percent of zinc from galvanized steel is recycled, returning this valuable
metal to its varied uses.

zinc is an important mineral for both plant and human health. a lack of zinc in soil prevents plants from reaching
their full root and foliage potential, decreasing the amount of food it can produce. these deficiencies in the soil also
correlate to insufficient zinc in humans and negative health impacts. for example, zinc has been promoted to boost
the immune system, helping people fight colds and ear infections, and can be used to help treat malaria, skin
conditions, asthma, diabetes, adhd and other conditions.

adequate levels of zinc reduce childhood illnesses, enhance physical growth and decrease mortality in developing
nations. that’s why the international zinc association and its members partnered with unicef to combat global
zinc deficiencies through the nonprofit zinc saves kids initiative. each year, 1.5 million children die from diarrhea.

adequate zinc can reduce the severity and occurrence of this acute disease in developing countries.

programs to improve childhood health through adequate zinc consumption show tremendous progress in countries,
including peru, mexico and drc (democratic republic of the congo). health centers in peru report a 25 percent
reduction in diarrhea episodes and a 40 percent reduction in the duration and severity of diarrhea cases as a result
of providing zinc supplements to children.

2 bil

people worldwide have inadequate zinc in their diet

800,000

people at risk of dying each year from zinc deficiency

450,000

children at risk of dying every year due to zinc deficiency

5 mil

children who die each year from diarrhea, a condition that can be easily addressed with zinc supplements

financial highlights
   sustainability2016.doerun.com /financial-highlights/


ec1 (201-1) financial highlights (fiscal year)

 (dollars in thousands)                                            2014      2015      2016

 property taxes                                                    $7,368    $6,727    $6,818

 compensation                                                      $144,202 $131,424 $114,005

 community investment(1)                                           $157      $197      $211

 environmental spending                                            $73,855   $63,179   $71,075

 research and development                                          $1,803    $1,564    $1,405

 royalties to governments                                          $10,565   $10,108   $7,924

 capital spending (excluding environmental capital expenditures)   $24,089   $12,350   $24,165

(1) includes donations, scholarships and tuition reimbursement.

corporate governance
   sustainability2016.doerun.com /governance/corporate-governance/

the doe run resources corporation, doing business as the doe run company (doe run), is privately held by the
new york-based renco group inc.

as a global supplier of lead, copper, and zinc concentrates and lead metals and alloys, doe run is guided by a nine-
member executive team. the team consists of the president and chief executive officer; vice president – finance and
chief financial officer; vice president – information technology; vice president – law; vice president – sales and
marketing; vice president – human resources and community relations; vice president – exploration; vice president –
environmental, health and safety; and vice president of semo operations. the executive team is 88 percent male
and 88 percent caucasian, and encompasses an age range of 46 – 68 years. the team includes one female and
one person of hispanic heritage. their compensation is determined using market-based data and standard industry
practices.

these individuals are responsible for setting the business strategy and organizational structure of doe run, as well
as the company’s economic, social and environmental policies, goals and performance with input from a
sustainability governance committee led by the vice president – environmental, health and safety. in this role, the
vice president – environmental, health and safety, along with the president and chief executive officer and the vice
president – human resources and community relations, review and approve doe run’s annual sustainability report.
the sustainability governance committee designates a team of employees to compile data and content for the
annual sustainability report.

doe run’s board expects management to keep pace with best practices in corporate governance. to accomplish
this goal, doe run utilizes a stringent set of corporate governance policies, procedures and practices to ensure that
the business is properly directed, administered and controlled. for example:
    as a privately held company, doe run is not legally bound to meet the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley
    act. this act was passed by congress in 2002 to help restore confidence in publicly traded companies after
    several major corporate and accounting scandals. however, doe run has chosen to adopt certain sarbanes-
    oxley requirements that can be applied to privately held companies. these include good documentation
    procedures, rigorous internal accounting controls based on a proper segregation of duties, and strong internal
    audits and reviews. we also undergo annual external audits by the accounting firm of crowe horwath llp,
    which adheres to generally accepted auditing standards (gaas) as established by the american institute of
    certified public accountants. our decision to take these steps is consistent with our desire to conduct
    business ethically and responsibly. following this control framework also supports our efforts to maintain
    international organization for standardization (iso) certifications at several operating sites. our herculaneum
    site, resource recycling facility and vancouver, washington, fabricated products inc. site are certified under
    iso 9000 programs, which verify that strong, quality procedures are in place. doe run’s sweetwater mine
    and mill, fletcher mine and mill, brushy creek mine and mill, and resource recycling facility also hold iso
    14001 certification, which focuses on environmental management. specifics related to these certifications are
    included on our website. doe run has written procedures and policies in place to ensure the accuracy and
    completeness of our financial records and the effectiveness of our internal control systems, particularly in
    such areas as accounting, purchasing, vendor receipts and customer transactions. in addition, the legal
    department reviews contracts for business risks and potential conflicts of interest.
    as a federal subcontractor, doe run adheres to the requirements of the office of federal contracts
    compliance program (ofccp). in doing so, doe run develops an annual affirmative action plan, which
    supports the principles of equal employment opportunity and affirmative action in all of its employment policies
    and practices, including recruiting, hiring, compensation, benefits, transfers, training, promotions, social
    recreation programs, company sponsored events, and in other terms and conditions of employment.

    doe run strives to maintain open communication with important audiences both inside and outside the
    company. as described within the reporting process, doe run regularly surveys stakeholders through third-
    party surveys of community stakeholders and employees (conducted most recently in 2014 with plans for a
    2017 survey). through our corporate office, doe run provides our operating sites with guidance and
    education about community engagement. sites then implement programs based on the specific needs of
    local communities. these programs include regular community outreach, facility tours, public meetings and
    ongoing dialogue with local communities. you can share feedback with the company through any of these
    forums, or by contacting communityinfo@doerun.com.
    we also provide our employees with a mechanism by which they can anonymously share issues or concerns
    via a hotline system managed by an outside third party. once an employee makes a report, the third-party
    firm sends an email to the vice president – human resources and community relations and the vice president
    – law. timely investigations are conducted for all reports made to the hotline, with issues of safety given
    highest priority. any necessary communication between the reporter and the company is handled through the
    third-party firm to maintain confidentiality.

potential employees begin learning about the company’s expectations, values and sustainability policy from our
website and in hiring ads. in addition, the company’s standards of business conduct and company values, vision,
mission and business strategy are reviewed formally during the onboarding process. employees also are required
to sign an acknowledgment that they have received and understand the doe run employee handbook and
standards of business conduct.

our core values were redefined in 2011 by the executive team and are reinforced daily in conversations, business
processes, and internal and external communications.

we believe we can enhance the quality of life through:

    safety: protecting one another.
    integrity: demonstrating transparency and honesty in all we say and do.
    collaboration: working together with employees and external stakeholders to realize shared goals.
    respect: recognizing that every employee has a voice and opinion that matters; diversity of experience,
    thought and ideas is encouraged.
    stewardship: conserving, managing and making the most of the natural resources in our care.
    sustainability: balancing social, environmental and economic considerations with a relentless focus on
    improving our processes.

to ensure that we stay current on corporate governance and corporate responsibility trends, we maintain
memberships in several industry-related trade associations. these associations support and educate members
about such issues as community engagement, environmental stewardship and sustainability. company leaders hold
committee and/or board positions in many of these organizations. doe run employs an award-winning project
management office (pmo) that utilizes a rigorous process to plan for, manage and evaluate projects. the pmo has
quantified improvements in areas such as project completion times and budget accuracy. by utilizing outside
resources and proven programs, we help ensure we are looking at, and implementing as appropriate, best
practices.

we believe that corporate governance is an evolving process. we are committed to continuous improvement in
setting sustainability targets and in our reporting so we can continue to operate responsibly and with integrity.

reporting process
   sustainability2016.doerun.com /governance/report-parameters/

based on the global reporting initiative (gri) definition of materiality, the doe run company (doe run)
determines what information to include in its sustainability report based on a variety of methods, including third-party
quantitative and qualitative research, one-on-one conversations, community meetings, tours, and special events.
we include progress we have made on projects, processes, or challenges that have significant economic,
environmental and social impact (both positive and negative) on our company, our stakeholders and the industries
that depend on lead-based products.

doe run initially adopted the gri framework in 2009 as a response to research that indicated audiences wanted to
know more about the company, its efforts to operate safely and its investments to minimize its environmental impact.
a sustainability governance committee, established in 2012, is charged with implementing programs and
processes to further integrate sustainability into doe run’s operations, including the indicators and processes
reported in the sustainability report. the committee chair also approves the material topics, content and indicators
chosen for the reports.

several steps have helped doe run’s senior management and functional managers determine and improve
materiality for our sustainability reports.

    in 2012, doe run conducted extensive quantitative and qualitative research within the missouri communities
    in which it operates to improve how it communicates with stakeholders, including through this report. the
    research identified the major issues facing citizens in the community to be the local economy, job
    opportunities, environmental responsibility and community involvement.
    in 2014, doe run again conducted research within the missouri communities surrounding its operations to
    determine any changes to the major issues facing the communities, and inform the reporting aspects material
    to stakeholders outside our organization. the research indicated that the local economy, job opportunities
    and environmental responsibility continue to be top concerns to community stakeholders, as well as the
    safety of doe run operations and the company’s involvement in the community. in addition, the company has
    received non-solicited phone calls from citizens across the u.s. expressing concerns about the closure of the
    last primary lead smelter in the u.s. and its potential impact on access to lead material for security and
    outdoor activities.
    the sustainability governance committee and doe run’s general managers also identified the main
    challenges, accomplishments and progress within the company, including a reduction in workforce, progress
    on environmental projects, workforce safety and the global market’s impact on business decisions.
    doe run then prioritized which gri aspects and data indicators were material both inside and outside the
    organization to focus on in the report:

         environmental capital investment and performance, which relates to all operations
         workforce data for all operations
         direct and indirect economic impact
         community involvement
         employee health and safety at all operations


identification and selection of stakeholders

based on input and continued dialogue with our employees, communities, industry groups, and regulatory bodies,
we’ve determined our stakeholders consist of the following: community groups and leaders; property owners;
neighboring residents; current and retired employees; local, state and federal government; business groups; nearby
schools; regulatory agencies; and industry organizations.

stakeholder group

community groups and leaders

key interests and concerns

seek information related to local jobs, taxes and other support.

engagement methods

    conducted community surveys in 2014 and 2012; 2017 survey was completed in may 2017.
    provide feedback mechanism via annual sustainability report.
    maintain ongoing engagement through a number of community events.
    maintain involvement in various community organizations, including viburnum economic development area
    corporation, viburnum lions club, washington county chamber of commerce, salem chamber of
    commerce, sustaining partners of salem (the community resource center), reynolds county rotary club,
    dent and reynolds county relay for life, local school district organizations, and community sports teams.
    share company updates via news releases and annual sustainability report.

property owners and neighboring residents

key interests and concerns

seek information related to the impact of doe run’s operations on their land, such as environmental precautions,
traffic, noise, etc. also interested in employee safety.

engagement methods

    conducted community surveys in 2014 and 2012; 2017 survey is currently underway.
    communicate directly with nearby residents if a situation arose.
    share company updates via news releases and local newspaper and radio interviews, and annual
    sustainability report.

current and retired employees

key interests and concerns

seek information about business goals, operational performance, employee training, and health and safety.

engagement methods

    conducted employee communications survey in 2014 and 2012.
    hold regular employee meetings with managers.
    established cascading flow to share information with employees through managers, and to surface feedback

    from employees.
    publish quarterly employee newsletter mailed to homes to share company updates.
    provide free tours annually on old miners’ days.
    hosted retiree pancake breakfast in 2014 and 2016.

local, state and federal government

key interests and concerns

seek information about operational performance, specifically around environmental impact and health and safety.
local and state government is deeply interested in the company’s economic impact, including jobs and taxes.

engagement methods

    hosted doe run day at the capitol to interact with legislators in jefferson city, missouri, in 2015, and again
    in march 2017.
    sit on lead industry task force in missouri to help inform legislators about the lead mining industry.
    regularly invite local and state legislators to tour operations.
    participated in a survey for the federal government accountability office, to help the u.s. senate committee
    on energy and natural resources understand the impact of federal policy on the industry.

business groups

key interests and concerns

seek information related to the company’s economic impact in the area, including supplier partnerships.

engagement methods

    maintain involvement with local business groups, including viburnum economic development area
    corporation, viburnum lions club, washington county chamber of commerce and salem chamber of
    commerce.
    share company updates via news releases and the annual sustainability report.

nearby school districts and colleges

key interests and concerns

seek information related to funding, including local taxes and donations that benefit schools. also seek information
to expose students to mining and minerals, and training for students who want to enter the mining profession.

engagement methods

    maintain ongoing partnerships with local colleges, such as the missouri university of science and technology
    and mineral area college, including donations toward key programs.
    offer minerals education programs at local school districts.
    offer internships and job training.
    engage in informal conversations with teachers and administrators through involvement in mineral education

    workshops, backpack donation programs, career days and other partnerships with schools.
    share company updates via news releases and the annual sustainability report.

regulatory agencies

key interests and concerns

seek information related to company’s performance against environmental and health and safety regulations.

engagement methods

    submit annual reports with detailed data on environmental, health and safety performance.
    meet regularly to discuss current performance and the state of the business, and to address legacy issues
    with missouri department of natural resources, region 7 epa and natural resources trustees.

industry organizations

key interests and concerns

seek information and best practices related to economic, environmental and social performance.

engagement methods

    hold board or executive committee positions on:

        ila; abr; bci; alabc; mining industry council; sme

    assist industry organizations with initiatives to further the industry.

open communications with our internal and external stakeholders helps us share achievements and challenges. it
also helps doe run understand what actions and information our stakeholders need from us. we strive to maintain
open communication with stakeholders both inside and outside the company. our sustainability reports and our
online survey are two channels for this communication.

to share feedback with doe run, contact communityinfo@doerun.com, and please consider answering a few
questions via our online survey.

gri index
   sustainability2016.doerun.com /governance/gri-index/

this report contains standard disclosures from the gri sustainability reporting guidelines. a list of the reported
standard disclosures is listed below. all information is fully disclosed, unless otherwise indicated.


strategy and analysis

g4-1

statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization

message from the ceo

organizational profile

g4-3

name of the organization

the doe run resources corporation/dba the doe run company

g4-4

primary brands, products, and services

organizational profile

g4-5

location of the organization’s headquarters

st. louis, missouri, united states

g4-6

countries where the organization operates

united states (missouri, arizona and washington)

g4-7

nature of ownership and legal form

the doe run resources corporation is a corporation, which is an indirect subsidiary of the renco group, inc.

g4-8

markets served

primary customers served include battery manufacturers in the u.s.; concentrates are sold globally.
organizational profile

g4-9

scale of the reporting organization

organizational profile
financial highlights
as a private company, net sales, net revenue and total capitalization is proprietary information and viewed as
business confidential.

g4-10

total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender

workforce summary

g4-11

percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements

only 0.17% of employees are covered under collective bargaining agreements.

g4-12

organization’s supply chain

doe run partners with its local vendors to create a more sustainable supply chain and support local economic
vitality where possible. its supplier practices guided more than $140 million in spending to missouri-based suppliers
in 2016, representing 42 percent of doe run’s overall supplier spending.

g4-13

significant changes during the reporting period

letter from the ceo

g4-15

externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which
the organization subscribes or which it endorses

the doe run company, through its membership with the international lead association, subscribes to the principles
of the shared lead action 21 program . we aim to ensure the safe production and use of lead now and in the future
while safeguarding human health and minimizing operational impact on the natural environment. in addition, many
of doe run’s operations have achieved and maintain iso certifications to minimize our environmental impact.

g4-16

memberships of associations or organizations

identified material aspects and boundaries

g4-17

entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents

all doe run entities have been reported.
organizational profile

g4-18

process for defining report content

reporting process

g4-19

material aspects identified for defining report content

reporting process

g4-20

aspect boundaries inside the organization

all doe run entities have been reported. all sizeable economic, environmental and social impacts are included
either in the stories or the data.

g4-21

aspect boundaries outside the organization

reporting process

g4-22

restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such

environmental spending

g4-23

report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries

none


stakeholder engagement

g4-24

list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization

reporting process

g4-25

basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage

reporting process

g4-26

approach to stakeholder engagement

reporting process

g4-27

key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement

reporting process


report profile

g4-28

reporting period

2016 calendar (fiscal year reporting is noted where appropriate.)

g4-29

date of most recent previous report

published in august 2016

g4-30

reporting cycle

annual

g4-31

contact point

corporateinfo@doerun.com

g4-32

in accordance with guidelines

this report contains standard disclosures from the gri sustainability reporting guidelines.

governance

g4-34

governance structure of the organization

corporate governance

g4-35

process for delegating authority to address economic, environmental and social topics

corporate governance

g4-36

position responsible for economic, environmental and social topics

corporate governance

g4-38

composition of the company’s highest governing body

corporate governance (partially disclosed)

g4-39

indicate whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer

no

g4-42

report the highest governance body’s and executives’ roles in developing, approving and updating the
organization’s purpose, mission, strategies, policies and goals related to sustainability

corporate governance

g4-48

highest position that formally reviews and approves the sustainability report

president and ceo


ethics and integrity

g4-56

organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior

core values

specific standard disclosures

economic

g4-ec1

direct economic value generated and distributed

financial highlights (partially disclosed)

g4-ec7

development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported

remediation for revitalization

g4-ec9

proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation

in 2016, doe run supported missouri businesses by spending more than $140 million with 632 missouri vendors.
this accounts for 42 percent of total company spending.


environmental

g4-en1

materials used by weight or volume

environmental performance

g4-en2

percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials

environmental performance

g4-en3

energy consumption within the organization

environmental performance

g4-en4

energy consumption outside of the organization

environmental performance

g4-en5

energy intensity

environmental performance

g4-en15

direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 1)

environmental performance

g4-en16

energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 2)

environmental performance

g4-en17

other indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 3)

environmental performance

g4-en18

greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions intensity

environmental performance

g4-en21

nox, sox, and other significant air emissions

environmental performance

g4-en22

total water discharge by quality and destination

environmental performance

g4-en29

monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with
environmental laws and regulations

doe run paid $16,380 in fines for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations in 2016.

g4-en31

total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type

environmental spending

labor practices and decent work

g4-la1

total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region

workforce summary (partially disclosed)

g4-la6

type and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related
fatalities by region and by gender

health and safety performance (partially disclosed)

g4-la9

average hours of training per year per employee by gender and employee category

workforce training (partially disclosed)

society

g4-so1

local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs

all operations implement a localized community engagement plan.

g4-so8

monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with
laws and regulations

in 2016, doe run paid approximately $107,509 in fines and non-monetary sanctions related to laws and regulations.

product responsibility

g4-pr9

monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision
and use of products and services

doe run paid no ($0) significant fines for noncompliance concerning provision and use of products and services in
2016.
