                               2013
                               sustainability report
                               farabi petrochemicals company




+966 13 356-5000 | esc@farabipc.com | www.farabipc.com
      farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




                                                              table of
                                                              contents




 2

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                            sustainability report 2013

about this report		                                 04     gri reporting process at a glance 		                 36


scope of the report (boundaries & limitations)		    06     participation towards global initiatives		           40


statement of the president		                        08     occupational health & safety performances 		         46


about the company		                                 10     environmental performance		                          50


our growth		                                        12     green house gas emissions		                          52


strategy & governance		                             14     engergy consumption		                                56


our products		                                      16     water consumption		                                  58


product stewardship		                               20     biodiversity impact		                                62


market/distributions map		                          22     climate change		                                     64


certificates & awards		                             24     waste disposal recycling and reuse		                 66


sustainability journey		                            26     social commitments		                                 70


sustainability key milestone 		                     30     gri index		                                          74


sustainability governance		                         32     glossary of terms		                                  80


our enablers		                                      34     contacts		85




                                                                                                                  3

                                        farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                    about
                                    this report




farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                sustainability report 2013




welcome to farabi’s first annual sustainability report. this
report not only focuses on our achievements and perfor-
mance for the 2013 calendar year, but also includes initiati-
ves started in previous years and currently ongoing.


this report has been prepared using the global reporting
initiative (gri) 3rd generation (g3.1) sustainability repor-
ting guidelines. gri g3.1 is a globally recognized framework
for reporting on an organization’s economic, social, and
environmental performance. our report is based on the
gri-g3.1 application level framework. a gri content
index is included at the end of this report.
as an inaugural sustainability report, we ack-
nowledge that certain sections require further
attention. we are committed to actively impro-
ve our existing data collection mechanisms in
future report to ensure a higher level of disclo-
sure on our performance.


we welcome your feedback on this sustaina-
bility report. please direct all question or com-
ments regarding the report to:
esc@farabipc.com


for questions and more information about this report, visit
www.farabipc.com




                                                                                                                      5

                                            farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainabilityreport
sustainability report2013
                     2013




             scope of the report
             (boundaries & limitations)




 6

                            farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                    sustainability report 2013



                                                                                                scope:

                                                                    the report covers the production activities of fpc in saudi
                                                                    arabia, petrochemical complex in al-jubail industrial city
                                                                    situated in eastern province of the kingdom.




the scope of this report has the following boundaries and limitations:

•   the report does not include data from fpc’s marketing offices.
•   contractor, supplier, and client data is not included unless specifically mentioned.
•   environmental data disclosed in this report covers all farabi’s initiatives & programs in the field of air quality, energy,
    waste and water. data on volume of water discharge, energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, in addition to
    the type, quantity and disposal
•   methods of waste for the year 2013 is included in the environment section.
•   a brief description about the global sustainability partners that are subscribed by farabi, like: carbon disclosure pro-
    jects (cdp), american cleaning institute (aci) and gulf petrochemicals & chemical associations (gpca).
•   product stewardship and stakeholder engagement
•   in this report, economic data mainly covers procurement. it does not include data on farabi’s economic performance,
    except to cover the minimum requirement of the indicators.
•   health and safety (o h&s) data includes both fpc’s direct employees and contractors, in order to cover la6 & la9 indi-
    cator requirements.




                                                                                                                           77

                                            farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013

                             “in our young and focused
                             sustainability journey, we
                             have realized a significant
                             economic value addition
                             by   operating        responsib-
                             ly; it proves that sustain-
                             ability is     a win-win for
                             everybody,          individuals,
                             business, community and
                             environment.”




                                  statement
                                  of the president




 8

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                         sustainability report 2013

while we at farabi petrochemical com-         reness committee (sheac) was estab-          where all challenging targets were
pany (fpc) are taking our position as a       lished to ensure continuous and sus-         achieved successfully. expectations, ho-
preferred world leader in surfactants         tainable contact with community and          wever, continue to rise.
industry, we are striving to provide our      government through many initiatives          sustainability requires individuals, com-
customers around the globe with top           and awareness programs, provided by          panies, governments and international
quality products and services in the          our committed employees. the purpo-          agencies commitment to act responsibly
most efficient and responsible manner.        se is to engage the local community and      to achieve the ultimate goal of preser-
our product’s main application is the         government functions in this effort and      ving our planet and conserve natural
detergents manufacturing, which aims          elevate the public awareness about sus-      resources for our children and future
to make the world cleaner through pro-        tainability and the role that everybody      generations since it is not an option, but
viding suitable substances that help peo-     supposed to play in this regard. some of
                                                                                           a way of life that we all must adopt!
ple around the globe clean themselves,        these programs are continuous i.e. hand
their cloths and equipment. this goal         hygiene campaigns, defensive driving,
can be fulfilled only if air and water con-   trees plantations, water conservation,
tamination sources that may associate         etc.
the manufacturing and transportation
process have been eliminated or minimi-       in our young and focused sustainability


                                                                                           mohammed z. al-wadaey
zed and natural resources consumption         journey, we have realized a significant
is minimized.                                 economic value addition by operating
                                              responsibly; it proves that
sustainability is considered as a core        sustainability is a win-win for everybody,
value at fpc business culture. it is in       individuals, business, community and
the heart of our business strategy, it is     environment. that encourages us to al-
integrated into the work environment          ways raise the bar and challenge oursel-
through designing robust work proces-         ves to do better and seek solutions that
ses that prevent harm to onsite working       share benefits with customers, suppliers
people, community and environment,            and community since it is not only mat-
by highly trained and developed talents.      ter of principles, it also makes a good
annual and five yearly targets have been      business.
defined and implementation strategy
has been developed to achieve these           we engage with our customers and sup-
targets. it is also part of our strategy to   pliers to share our sustainability perfor-
employ state of the art technologies in       mance and exchange ideas to promote
our future projects to construct and ope-     the overall business chain performance
rate them responsibly from the design         and maintain it at the same level of re-
phase. promotion of local community           sponsibility. we have made a lot of pro-
awareness toward sustainability is an         gress over the past few years and we are
integral part of our strategy.                happy about what we have made so far.
safety, health and environment awa-           the performance of 2013 was very good

                                                                                                                                   9

                                               farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




 farabi petrochemicals
        company
          our product
           milestones
     construction with
      hseq standards                                 about
                                                     the company




10
10

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                   sustainability report 2013




farabi petrochemicals company
fpc (cr # 2055005152) is a saudi wholly-owned private sector
company established in 2002 to produce normal paraffin (npn)
and linear alkyl benzene (lab) for the first time in saudi arabia
using uop technology. its production facility is located in the in-
dustrial city of ai-jubail in eastern province of kingdom of saudi
arabia. this integrated petrochemical complex of farabi was
inaugurated by the custodian of the two holy mosques, king
abdullah bin abdul aziz in june 2006 during his landmark visit to
jubail industrial city.


our product milestones
as envisaged, the production of npn and lab from this complex
started in july 2006, fulfilling milestone achievement in saudi
arabian petrochemical industry. the plant has the design capa-
cities of 120,000 mtpa of normal paraffin and 70,000 mtpa of
linear alkyl benzene. in line with the vision to grow the core bu-
siness, while following and fulfilling the growing customers de-
mand, farabi has set up its second production train for linear
alkyl benzene with a design capacity of 70,000 mtpa.


construction with hseq standards
since inception, the key to success of all the production and mar-
keting processes is the emphasis of the management on compli-
ance with health, safety, environment and quality (hseq) excel-
lence standards. accomplishing the 7+ million safe man hours
without a lost time injury (lti) and all the employees and cont-
ractors have fully complied with hsseq rules and regulations.




                                                                                                                         11

                                               farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




                                                      our
                                                      growth




12

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                              sustainability report 2013



                                    2018              capacity growth in
                                                        npn/lab & diversified products




 value-added                       2015
    downstreams




                                   2012                second lab capacity
                                                                           on-stream




   lab plant                       2008
    debottlenecking




                                    2007                         paraffin plant
                                                                          debottlenecking




first integrated                    2006
  np & lab capacity


                                                                                                    13

                      farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




                                                                      strategy &
                                                                      governance




14

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                         sustainability report 2013




                   commitment.
                   we are committed to promote hsseq culture throughout the or-
                   ganization by using world class hsseq standards and practices.
                   we conduct our business with a commitment-driven approach
                   to attain profitable growth by complying with the applicable hs-
                   seq laws and regulations.



                   excellence.
                   we encourage superior performance throughout our organiza-
                   tion, taking pride and joy in all that we do and constantly chal-
                   lenge ourselves to perform even better. fpc measures results,
                   rewards high performance, and assumes responsibility for all
                   our activities and outcomes. we work to evolve into a most re-
                   liable and customer-centric organization with a proficient team
                   that delivers excellent products to satisfy our stakeholders to
                   the optimum level.



                   teamwork.
                   we are committed to work together in a healthy environment by
                   sharing knowledge, ideas and talent in total alignment to achie-
                   ve our company’s vision. setting high standards by providing an
                   environment that promotes excellence, growth and teamwork,
                   we drive our employees to build trust and maintain transparen-
                   cy with our stakeholders.


                   trust & respect.
                   we offer transparency and ensure quality to build long lasting
                   relationships based on trust that in turn earns us the respect of
                   our customers and clients




                                                                                15

farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013

                                          as the proud owner and ope-
                                          rator of several world class
                                          petrochemical units, farabi
                                          manages the production of the
                                          highest grades of linear alkyl
                                          benzene, normal paraffin,
                                          heavy white oil, light white
                                          oil and heavy alkylate.




                                                                                 our
                                                                                 products




16

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                     sustainability report 2013



faralab - linear alkyl benzene (lab):
(faralab) linear alkyl benzene (lab) is an intermediate product
used to produce detergents by using uop “ detal” technology.


aplications:
•   household detergents
•   laundry powders
•   dish washing liquids
•   liquid household cleaners
•   agricultural herbicides
•   in emulsion polymerization
•   as an emulsifier and wetting agent
•   in small quantity with other surfactant in toilet soap for
    foaming




                                                                  farapar - normal parrafin (npn):
                                                                  (farapar) farabi produces c10- c13 grade normal paraffin
                                                                  (farapar) through kerosene supply from aramco shell refinery.


                                                                  applications:
                                                                  •   linear alkyl benzene
                                                                  •   manufacture of chlorinated paraffin wax
                                                                  •   barbeque starters
                                                                  •   lamp oil
                                                                  •   sealant
                                                                  •   adhesives
                                                                  •   manufacture of alcohol derivatives
                                                                  •   lube industry




                                                                                                                           17

                                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013

                                                                     farol 250 - heavy white oil (hwo):
                                                                     (farol 250) - heavy white oil (hwo) is produced between the
                                                                     boiling range of 260 deg c to 290 deg c.


                                                                     applications:
                                                                     •   printing ink industry
                                                                     •   household paints
                                                                     •   lubricants industry
                                                                     •   metal and equipment degreasing
                                                                     •   wood preservation




faol100 - light white oil (lwo):
farabi’s farol 100 - light white oil (lwo) is produced in the boi-
ling range of 80 -110deg c


applications:
•    solvent carrier for dye industries
•    adhesives, glues and etc.
•    solvents especially natural and synthetic rubber
•    used in surface coating, printing inks, and household cle-
     aners
•    degreasing agent for mechanical use




18

                                          farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                sustainability report 2013

faralure - heavy alkylate (hab):
(faralube) farabi produces heavy alkylate (hab)


applications:
•   lube industries
•   insulating oil
•   cutting oil
•   thermic fluid
•   sulphonated derivatives as fuel oil additives




                                                                                                                      19

                                            farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

          product
          stewardship

                                        p
                          w s        dev roduc
                       ra rial          elo
                                            pm
                                               t
                         t e                   ent
                      ma




                                                     end ife c
             n
            tio




                                                        l
                                                         of p ycle
          duc




                                                             rod
         pro




                               product




                                                                 uct
                             stewardship
          g
              gin
           cka




                                                         use
               pa




                      st
                    dis orag                 tin
                                                 g
                       tri e &           rke
                          bu
                             tio       ma sales
                                 n      &




farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                 sustainability report 2013

the product stewardship management system (psms) process begins
with a strong commitment from business leadership. business and cor-
porate leadership annually review the continuing suitability, adequacy
and effectiveness of the psms and makes any necessary changes to en-
hance performance. the psms also established business ps metrics with
action levels for businesses and the ps incident program. inherent in this
framework is a commitment to continual improvement.


farabi did the gap analysis and assessed all 12 best practices for product
stewardship code which are directly or indirectly fulfilled by the existing
system. we have product stewardship embedded within the farabi ma-
nagement system.


we have established product stewardship to ensure that health, safety,
and environmental protection is an integral part in manufacturing, mar-
keting, distributing, using, recycling and disposing of our products.


in 2008, farabi made a commitment to the gulf petrochemical & che-
mical association (gpca) to adopt a new management system approach
for implementing responsible care®, including mandatory independent
third-party certification.


we have implemented responsible care® management system in fa-
rabi; in addition to fulfill the rc codes requirements including product
stewardship management which are integrated/embedded within the
system.


for farabi, product stewardship is embedded and occur through busi-
ness audits as a part of responsible care management system (rcms)
certification rc 14001 which was been obtained in 2013.




                                                                                                                       21

                                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




                                                                                     turkey
                                                                                 syria & lebanon




marketing &
distribution map                                                                            morocco


                                                                                                   algeria




22

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                sustainability report 2013




                                                                            vietnam
                                                                                 philippines
                          pakistan
                        uae
                                                                                              indonesia
                       oman       india
                   saudi arabia
                 yemen
                                              thailand


                                                  malaysia


               kenya


         tanzania


south africa

                                                                                                                      23

                                          farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




                                                          certifications
                                                          & awards




24

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

the recognition received in the form of                       in recognition of our sustainability achievements,
awards and certificates of international                      farabi has earned serveral awards  and certifica-
                                                              tions including:
standards are sources of encouragement

for fpc. with our efforts to offer customer

satisfaction through continual improvement
                                                              certifications.
                                                              1.   rc 14001:2008 - responsible care management system and
of our effectiveness in meeting their requi-                       iso 14001:2004 - environmental management system
rements, we have evolved as a preferred                       2.   iso 9001:2008 - quality management system
                                                              3.   ohsas 18001:2007 - occupational health and safety ma-
world leader in surfactants industry.
                                                                   nagement system
                                                              4.   iso/iec 20000-1:2011 - information technology service ma-
                                                                   nagement system
                                                              5.   iso/iec 27001:2005 - information security management
                                                                   system


                                                              major awards.
                                                              6.   “the winning supplier in d&e market “ by unilever
                                                              7.   microsoft dynamics 2012 industry excellence award
                                                                   by microsoft corp.




                                                                                                                          25

                                               farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




                             sustainability
                             journey




26

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                      sustainability report 2013



              standard
             disclosures
                                   what to report
              sector
           supplements                                       gri reporting framework.
                                                             orientation to the gri reporting framework all gri reporting
           protocols
                                                             framework documents are developed using a process that seeks
                                     how to report
                                                             consensus through dialogue between stakeholders from business,
                                                             the investor community, labour, civil society, accounting, academia,
        principles &                                         and others. all reporting framework documents are subject to tes-
         guidance
                                                             ting and continuous improvement.


                                 g3 reporting framework




sustainability reporting is becoming more prevalent, driven by a growing recognition that sustainability related issues can ma-
terially affect a company’s performance; demands from various stakeholder groups for increased levels of transparency and di-
sclosure; and the need for companies to appropriately respond to issues of sustainable development. a sustainability report pro-
vides a balanced and reasonable representation of the sustainability performance of the reporting organization, including both
positive and negative contributions. sustainability reports based on the gri reporting framework disclose outcomes and results
that occurred within the reporting period in the context of the organization’s commitments, strategy and management approach.



              sustainability strategies                                                leadership

                                                                                          product stewardship
           stakeholders engagements
                                                                                       reporting
                   social responsibility
                                                                                           compliance
                           eco-efficiency




                                              farabi sustainability journey

                                                                                                                             27

                                              farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013

                                                       farabi’s past & future strategies.
                                                       in 2013, we have drafted and set our sustainability priorities




                         202
                                                       to ensure they are consistent with our overall business stra-




                             3
               operational                             tegy. farabi’s 2023 goal focuses on 3 strategies: operational
                strategy
                                                       strategy, health and safety of people and social commit-
                                                       ments. under operational strategy we have set priorities
                                 health &
                                  safety               for some key indicators including co2- equivalent emission
                      social
                    commitment                         intensity reduction.




28

                                    farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                    sustainability report 2013




                                                                          29

farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




                                                 sustainability
                                                 key milestones




30

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                  sustainability report 2013

        certificate for: iso9001,
        ohsas18001, rc14001
        (including    iso14001),
        iso20000 & iso27001

                                                                           20% co2-e emis-
                                                                           sion intensity
                                                                           reduction target

                                                2023




                                  2014




                   2013




       2010




2008
                                     1. gri report

                                     2. setting goals & objectives sustainability
                                     strategies

                                     3. stakeholder engagements

                                     4. participating in aci m. programs

                                                                                        31

              farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




                                                          sustainability
                                                          governance



32

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                        sustainability report 2013




operational strategy.
we have specific strategies and goals to ensure that we deliver with continuous improvement in each of our focus areas. as a
part of our operational goal strategy, we have focused all scopes considering fuel gas consumption, company owned vehicles,
purchased electricity, waste disposal, air travels, logistic aspects etc.


social commitment.
farabi is dedicated to the well-being and improvement of society lives through our social responsibility programs. as a part of this
strategy we are running some social campaigns and people/children reach out programs. in addition to that we are committed
to reduce fugitive emission and also promote green environment by growing trees.



employee health & safety.
with a commitment towards employee health and safety, we take proactive measures by putting some operation controls like
benzene exposure monitoring, ldar, radiation monitoring, noise survey. in addition to this, fpc fulfills its commitment for care
with a complete system for employee health check-up program.




                                                                                                                                33

                                               farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013

in order to deliver our environ-
mental and social programs,
we work transparently while
engaging our employees and
stakeholders to innovate with
continued freedom in a respon-
sible way. furthermore, our
objective is to equip all farabi
employees to build sustainabi-
lity thinking and practices into
their everyday work.




                                                               our
                                                               enablers




34

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                       sustainability report 2013

farabi top management.                                        sustainability steering committee (ssc).
the top management has an active re-
sponsibility and commitment for sus-                          farabi has formulated and established the sustainability commit-
tainability improvement strategies and                        tee in 2013, with members representing the different functions of
overall performance. the oversight and                        the organization’s value chain. this exclusive committee acts as a
stewardship of farabi management en-                          resource to support and promote the company’s commitments in
hances the long term value and vitality of                    line with policies towards sustainable development. it steers and di-
the company for its stakeholders.                             rectly manages all sustainability initiatives under the leadership of
                                                              the sustainability chairman. the role of the sustainability chairman,
                                                              who also serves as one of the company’s
                                                              directors for technical & projects division, is to drive internal and
                                                              external sustainability improvements.


functions of ssc.
the sustainability steering committee’s main roles and responsibilities are to:
•   conduct awareness programs on sustainability
•   develop long term plan for sustainability
•   define sustainability metric
•   nurture initiatives and steer for implementation
•   review and adopt gri frame work for reporting
•   review and ensure timely cdp reporting
•   promote environmental care aspects
•   ensure regulatory requirements are complied with
•   farabi’s annual sustainability report
•   sustainability improvement, opportunities and initiatives
•   sustainability road map and improvement action plan
•   engagement of stakeholder




                                                         farabi
                                                          top
                                                       management



                                   functions                                 sustainability
                                       of                                      steering
                                      ssc                                     committee

                                                                                                                               35

                                               farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




                                    gri reporting
                                    process at a glance




36

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                       sustainability report 2013

reporting process kick-off meeting

the kick-off meeting is an important event for starting the reporting process. it is the time when we communicate the action
plan and ideas with colleagues. it is also the time to better understand the organizational impacts and possible sustainability/or
business goals; most importantly time to take reporting process decision.


we as a sustainability team went outside of premises and dedicatedly did assessment for our business goals, and identify the
main positive and negative economic, social, and environmental impacts of day-to-day activities. we have also discussed actions
which can help to counterbalance these impacts, and through this analysis, started to identify material aspects upon which we
wanted to act and report.


by the end of the meeting, we have reached on following consensus:
•    main economic, social and environmental impacts related to pursuing business goals.
•    list of aspects/related indicators identified that would be addressed and reported as a part of strategy for contributing to a
     sustainable future.


sustainability team discussion are vital to the reporting process, but also critical are the discussions with stakeholders. the
gri sustainability reporting process must take into account both internal and external discussions; so in line with this we have
involved our prioritized stakeholders (one internal and one external) and considered their inputs under sustainability report
contents.




                                        sample report




                                                                                                                               37

                                              farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013

stakeholders engagement                                                 chamber of commerce                                community
                                                                                                                              zakat
                                                                               customers
stakeholders are individuals or groups who af-                                                                                   vendors
                                                                                 gpca
fect- or are affected by- organization activities.                  service providers                                             lenders




                                                                                                               m
a business does not exist in isolation. it relies




                                                                                                                an
                                                                         sabtank                                                      licensors




                                                                                                       e




                                                                                                                    ag
                                                                                                    ye
on a multitude of relationship with customers,




                                                                                                                      em
                                                                                                plo
                                                                         act/jcp                                                      insurance
employees, suppliers, communities, inves-                                                                  farabi




                                                                                                                      en
                                                                                              em
                                                                          jama’a                                                       rc




                                                                                                                       t
tors and others. as an output of stakeholder                           consultant                                                     hciss
                                                                                                      shareholders
engagement, we should be able to come up                                    media                                                     moh
with a clear report highlighting stakeholders’                         civil defence                                               moi
expectations and issues they face to deal with                    ministry of transport                                          kacst
organization.                                                                port authority                                   coast guard




                                                                   farabi petrochemical             stakeholder directly     stakeholder indirectly
                                                                         company                    affected | effected      affected | effected

by using the above diagram we have visualized and identify our all stakeholders and classify them in groups and individuals as
direct and indirect stakeholders. we have a long list of stakeholders after identifying so it was difficult to consult all of them; th-
erefore we have followed the gri guidelines to determine which groups to engage on our sustainability context by adopting the
concept of prioritization. as shown below a template for example.




                                             sample report


while engaging stakeholders we focused 2 factors “what to ask and how to engage”. farabi did the engagement process with
prioritized stakeholders by doing a survey through a set of questionnaires covering sustainability aspects related to the business
goals.


for this report we are limiting ourselves to engage with 2 stakeholders only (employee & customers).


we received feedback from engagement process and ensure to include them as a part of report contents by checking complete-
ness through materiality principle check.

38

                                            farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                                                                                      sustainability report 2013

materiality principle
                                                                                                                                                                                                           high

the information in a report should cover topics and indicators that:




                                                                                          influence on stakeholder assessments and decisions




                                                                                                                                                                                             ty
•    reflect the organization’s significant economic, environmental, and social im-




                                                                                                                                                                                           ri
                                                                                                                                                                                      g s
                                                                                                                                                                                         io
                                                                                                                                                                                 rt pic
                                                                                                                                                                                       pr
     pacts or




                                                                                                                                                                               po to
                                                                                                                                                                                   in
                                                                                                                                                                            re ial
•    would substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakehol-




                                                                                                                                                                         ve ter
                                                                                                                                                                             a
     ders.




                                                                                                                                                                           m
                                                                                                                                                                            ti
                                                                                                                                                                          la
                                                                                                                                                                       re
material topics for a reporting organization should include those topics that have




                                                                                                                                               n
                                                                                                                                                             low




                                                                                                                                               on
                                                                                                                                                   -m
a direct or indirect impact on an organization’s ability to create, preserve or erode




                                                                                                                                                    at
                                                                                                                                                        er
                                                                                                                                                        ia
economic, environmental and social value for itself, its stakeholders and society




                                                                                                                                                          lt
                                                                                                                                                             op
at large.




                                                                                                                                                               ic
                                                                                                                                                                s
                                                                                                                                                   significance of economic, environmental and social impact




it is necessary to apply tests for materiality. determining which aspects are “material” for organization will help to choose the best
gri performance indicators to report against.


materiality is determined by considering both:
•   the importance of the organization’s impact and
•   the priorities of the stakeholders.


we did this exercise to prioritize and determine our issues which are addressed in this report are based on materiality princip-
les. after determining issues/material aspects we did further completeness principle check in order to select material indicators
which are included under this report.




                                                                                                                                                                                                               39

                                               farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




                             participation towards
                             gobal initiatives




40

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                      sustainability report 2013

                                            carbon displocure projects (cdp)
                                          the cdp supply chain program provides a global system that allows companies with
                                          vast supply networks to collect business-critical climate change information from
                                          their suppliers. cdp collaborated with members to gather information on green-
                                          house gas (ghg) emissions from their collective suppliers. global suppliers coope-
                                          rated with this information request, the questionnaires were sent to far more com-
panies, leading to a more comprehensive picture of supply-chain emissions among members. in addition, cdp and accenture
conducted an in-depth formal survey of member companies to better assess the current state of supplier engagement on climate
change. the number of member companies responding to each question varied from 29 to 49, depending on their ability to
provide information. therefore, percentages stated relate to the number of member companies who answered each question.
finally, selected members were interviewed to draw additional qualitative insights. a team of experts extensively analyzed all of
these sources and conducted outside research supporting to produce this report.


scoring methodology
information request were scored on two factors:
1. transparency, in the form of a numeric disclosure score.
2. action on climate change, in the form of a letter grade performance band.


performance bands are not published for companies who attain disclosures scores below 50 as cdp believes there is insufficient
information on which to base a performance band while disclosure scores under 50 do not necessarily indicate poor performan-
ce, rather they indicate insufficient information to evaluate performance.


farabi is participating in carbon disclosure projects from last 3 years as a part of cdp supply chain member of unilever. we
have shown our transparency through reporting at maximum and got the disclosure scores by touching ceiling of 2nd largest
band of disclosure as compared to other reporters (e.g.; industry group scores, region scores and overall scores). as a part of
cdp format, we reported our governance structure, strategy of climate change and described what our initiatives are, how we
set the objectives & targets, what are the possible ways for communication. farabi has furnished all required information in the
cdp report that explains and talks about risk and opportunity assessment followed by consequences of climatic change. as per
cdp report format requirement, “emissions accounting” is a key parameter for evaluating company’s performance especially
about green house gas (ghg) accounting. ghg emission for farabi operation has been accounted for scope-1 (fuel gas & fuel
oil consumption & company owned vehicles mileage), scope-2 (purchased electricity) and scope-3 (waste disposal, air travels).




                                                                                                                             41

                                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013

american cleaning institute
farabi is a signatory and member company for american cleaning institute (aci) since 2013 and we
have committed to participate in their aci annual metric program. we have published one of our events
- “hand hygiene campaign” – in aci annual report which was conducted in 2013 as a part of our social
commitment and covered almost 50,000 people reach out, majority of them were children. owned ve-
hicles mileage), scope -2 (purchased electricity) and scope-3 (waste disposal, air travels).




responsible care
responsible care is a global, voluntary initiative developed autonomously by the chemical industry. it stands for the chemical in-
dustry’s desire to improve health, safety, and environmental performance. the signatory chemical companies agreed to commit
themselves to improve their performances in the fields of environmental protection, occupational safety and health protection,
plant safety, product stewardship and logistics, as well as to continuously improve dialog with their neighbors and the public,
independent from legal requirements. it runs in 57 countries whose combined chemical industries account for nearly 90% of
global chemical production.


launched in 1985 by the canadian chemical producers’ association, this dynamic initiative is constantly evolving to meet the
challenges faced by chemical manufacturers and all those in the value chain. at global level, that evolution was demonstrated
with launch of the responsible care global charter in 2006 at the un-led international conference on chemicals management
in dubai, uae.


through the participation of nearly 60 national chemical manufacturing associations – and through them, thousands of chemical
sites worldwide – responsible care forms an essential part of icca’s contribution to the united nations’ strategic approach to
international chemicals management (saicm).


as part of responsible care initiative, the international council of chemistry introduced the global product strategy in 2006.
responsible care has fostered the development of the icca global product strategy (gps) which seeks to improve the industry’s
management of chemicals including the communication of chemical risks throughout the supply chain. through responsible
care, the chemical industry is reporting and tracking its progress on critical elements of product stewardship and is making
further improvements to its current processes.




42

                                         farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                       sustainability report 2013

at national level, member associations are responsible for the detailed implementation of responsible care in their countries.
individual country programs are at different stages of development with different emphases, and are monitored and coordinated
by our icca responsible care leadership group.


the network continues to expand to new regions, countries and companies, fostering capacity building, the sharing of health,
safety and environmental information and employing an increasingly rigorous system of checklists, performance indicators and
verification procedures.


participation in responsible care is a condition of membership for acc members and responsible care partner companies, all of
which have made ceo-level commitments to uphold the program elements. the responsible care guiding principles are at the
heart of the responsible care commitment—through these principles, members and partners pledge to improve ehs&s perfor-
mance for facilities, processes and products throughout the entire operating system.




                                                       responsible care @ gpca
                                                       gulf petrochemicals and chemicals association (gpca) adopted the re-
                                                       sponsible care initiative in 2009, thereby, bringing this important initi-
                                                       ative to the gulf and middle east region. gpca’s responsible care pro-
                                                       gram is aligned with the initiatives of the international entities like unep,
                                                       undp, and international council of chemical association (icca).


gpca has designed its responsible care program, keeping in view the experience gained by international associations in their
journey towards responsible care issues. gpca has created alliance with american chemistry council (acc), the european che-
mistry council (cefic), and the canadian chemical producers association (ccpa) to address the global issues in a concerted
manner.



responsible care @ fpc
we are committed to the implementation of responsible care as broadly as possible within the chemical and allied industries.




                                                                                                                                43

                                            farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




                                                     =
                                                                                       responsible care
                                                                                      management system
                                                                                            rcms




            product stewardship
                     |
               sustainability




                                                                                        health & safety



                                                     +
                                                                                      management system
                                                                                         ohsas 18001




                 security



                                                     +
            management system
              security codes




                                                                                        environmental



                                                     +
                                                                                      management system
                                                                                          iso 14001




44

                                  farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                    sustainability report 2013




                                                                          45

farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




                             occupational health
                             & safety performances




46

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                         sustainability report 2013

at farabi, we continually strive to aline our oh&s managements systems and processes to international best practices. our
oh&s systems and processes are regularly assessed and audited internally as well as independently by third parties. in addition,
hse performance and programs at farabi are reviewed at board level.



following aspects are the hall mark of the oh&s systems at farabi.

process safety:
at farabi, process safety information and operating and maintenance procedures are designed to identify and understand the
hazards posed by processes involved in operating the plant. we use structured inspection and quality assurance programs to
ensure safety of our operations. for all modifications at the plant, all the changes to process technology & facilities are duly con-
trolled through a robust change management system and we ensure that the fabricated and installed equipment is suitable for
process application. incidents related to process safety are recorded separately and investigated to eliminate the root cause(s).
process safety incidents frequency & severity is also stewarded as a kpi.


behavior based safety
at farabi, we believe that everyone working at plant whether direct employee or third party contractor should have the under-
standing of the hazards at the plant and how to protect himself against these hazards. this is accomplished by a set of programs
related to safe work practices ranging from basic safety orientation to job specific safety training, job hazard analysis, behavioral
audits of the working personnel, verification of health of tools and equipment used, adequate measuring of safe working condi-
tions.


safety performance & track record is strongly considered during employee appraisal and contractor qualification.


workplace health
the workplace health program at farabi includes all aspects related to industrial hygiene and occupational health related to ha-
zards at our facility, focusing primarily on reducing health risks of employees.
we have developed a comprehensive health risk assessment and monitoring program involving measurement of exposure to
toxic chemicals, radiation, and high noise. employees’ health is assessed through a rigorous annual medical checkup.


risk management and emergency preparedness
farabi’s direction on emergency response and planning is two-fold: to strengthen systems and procedures according to world
class safety standards and to conduct the business in a socially responsible manner. we employ comprehensive emergency plans
at our sites which include defining key roles in case of release of hazardous chemicals; simulation exercises to ensure prepared-
ness involving external agencies such as jama’a; and surprise drills to respond to emergencies.




                                                                                                                                 47

                                               farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                  recordable injury rate -osha trir


          0.8


          0.6


          0.4                                          0.46



          0.2


            0      0                 0                                         0
                 2010              2011                2012                2013
                                             injury rate


                 fatalities                                   0

                 lost time injuries (lti)                     0


                 restricted work case (rwc)                   0

                 medical treatment case (mtc)                 0

                 recordable injuries*                         0


                 lost days rate                               0


                 occupational disease rate                    0


                 absentee rate                                1012

                 safe man-hours without lti                   1,004,552


     *recordable injuries are defined as per us osha, it is sum of lti, rwc & mtc

48

                           farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                         sustainability report 2013


                   60.00


                   50.00

                                                                                 49.65
(hrs / employee)   40.00
 training hours

                            41.93

                   30.00
                                                       32.32


                   20.00


                   10.00


                      0
                              1                      2                             3
                                              employee category

                           note: farabi employees consist of 100% male population




                                    farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




                                                      environmental
                                                      performance




50

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                  sustainability report 2013

as part of the farabi culture of being a responsible corporate citizen,
we continuously strive to reduce our ecological footprint by identifying
material areas and focusing on each of them strategically. we have de-
fined processes and systems in order to identify, quantify and reduce
the impacts on the environment, including the water, energy and waste
footprint. our commitment is to grow sustainably and also help our
customers achieve sustainable growth through our service offerings.


we give a high priority to ensure compliance with relevant laws and re-
gulations at all our operating divisions. we emphasise on every emplo-
yees responsibility in environmental performance and promote aware-
ness among our value chain partners and stakeholders.


we are committed to reducing the amount of pollution generated at
source and conserving our natural resources. we continue to maintain
our focus on water efficiency and reducing our demand on fresh water
through wastewater treatment and closed loop recycling. effective was-
te management aligned to the 3r principles.


we design our operations in a way that mitigates environmental im-
pacts. we strive to achieve the highest standards when it comes to
making our processes environment friendly. our environment policy
entails a systematic approach to environmental management planning
to achieve continual performance improvement.


we have established, implemented and are maintaining our manage-
ment systems through meeting the requirements of the iso 14001 and
iso 9001 international certifications. internal audits are scheduled for
each of our environmental procedures on regular basis with all findings
reported and addressed immediately. furthermore, we undergo an-
nual external environmental audits to maintain our iso 14001 and rc
14001 certifications.




                                                                                                                        51

                                              farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




                                                              green house
                                                              gas emissions




52

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                  sustainability report 2013

direct green house gas (ghg) emmissions.
emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by farabi petrochemicals company (fpc). ghg accounting source for direct
emissions in fpc inventories are as follows:
•   fuel gas consumption
•   fuel oil consumption
•   company owned vehicles



our direct ghg emissions by weight:
                                                                 co2-e emissions scope - 1




                                                                                                                     2014 target
            fpc’s total direct co2-e
            emissions (kmt) for the                                                259.4                  258.09
            year 2012 and 2013 are
            214.38 and 259.4 respecti-                  214.38
            vely. we intend to cut our




                                                                                                2013
                                                                     2012
            direct ghg emissions to
            reach the target of 258.09
            in 2014.




                                                                   co2-e intensity (mt/mt)




                                                                                                                     2014 target
          fpc’s total direct co2-e
          emissions (kmt) for the
                                                         0.709
          year 2012 and 2013 are
          214.38 and 259.4 respecti-
          vely. we intend to cut our                                               0.684
          direct ghg emissions to
                                                                                                2013
                                                                    2012




          reach the target of 258.09
          in 2014.                                                                                         0.637



                                                                                                                         53

                                            farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013

in-direct green house gas (ghg) emissions:
emissions from sources as a consequence of farabi energy needs but are not owned or controlled by farabi. since 2010, expres-
sed as carbon dioxide equivalents. ghg accounting source for indirect emissions in fpc inventories are as follows:
•    purchase electricity
•    waste disposal
•    wastewater generation
•    air travels



our indirect ghg emissions by weight:

                                                                       co2-e emissions (kmt)




                                                                                                                      2014 target
          fpc’s total indirect co2-e
          emissions (kmt) for the
          year 2012 and 2013 are
                                                                                    64.61
          64.22 and 64.61 respecti-
                                                           64.22
          vely. we intend to cut our
                                                                                                            63.7




                                                                                             2013
                                                                      2012
          indirect ghg emissions to
          reach the target of 63.7 in
          2014.




                                                                     co2-e intensity




                                                                                                                      2014 target
          fpc’s total direct co2-e
          intensity (mt/mt) for the
                                                           0.211
          year 2012 and 2013 are
          0.211 and 0.171 respecti-
          vely. we intend to cut our                                                0.171
          indirect ghg emissions to
                                                                                             2013
                                                                      2012




          reach the target of 0.157 in
          2014.                                                                                            0.157



54

                                         farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                                 sustainability report 2013

2013 ghg inventories:
the following chart depicts fpc’s green house gas emission comparison for the year 2013 and 2014:




           2013 ghg emission comparison with planned year 2014:


                             323386.6


                                        320938.5




                                                                          485.48




                                                                                                        211.18
                                                                                              211.18
                                                       167.4

                                                               166.3




                                                                                   479.8
                                   co2                    ch4                 n2o               other

                                                   2013 - actual           2014 - plan


initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions:

2023 sustainability goals for co2-e emission intensity:
since 2012 farabi began taking action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and in 2013, farabi established our greenhouse gas
emissions goal and committed to reduce 20% intensity for a period of 10 years by 2023 from our benchmark (0.856).


2023 sustainability goals for energy intensity:
farabi has established energy intensity goals and committed to reduce 20.91% energy intensity index for a period of 10 years by
2023 from our benchmark (14.25).


2023 sustainability goals for water intensity, hazardous and non-hazardous waste intensity:
farabi has established various subsequent intensity goals and committed to reduce the targeted intensities in 10 years in line
with main organizational sustainability context of 20% reduction of co2-e emission intensity.

                                                                                                                                       55

                                                    farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




                                                            energy
                                                            consumption




56

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                                                              sustainability report 2013

our energy consumption.
from 2011 through 2013, fpc has tracked its total primary energy consumption by recording the usage of its direct sources of
energy, which are fuel gas and fuel oil and its indirect sources of energy are electricity and steam.




                                                                                                 direct energy consumption
                   direct energy consumption.




                                                                                                                                    4604854
                   in 2012, fpc’s fuel gas and fuel oil consump-




                                                                                                                                                                 4548476
                                                                                                                          4361194
                   tion was increased by 1074794 gj (1017923




                                                                                                                                                       4307799
                   mmbtu) and 127086.9 gj (118618.5 mmbtu)




                                                                                                        3530060
                   respectively. in 2013, while there was an in-




                                                                                            3343271
                   crease of 104921 gj (101113 mmbtu) of fuel
                   oil, we worked towards reducing the consump-
                   tion of fuel gas by 56378 gj (53395 mmbtu).




                                                                                                                                               2012
                                                                                                                   2011




                                                                                                                                                                           2013
                                                                                                        203267.1
                                                                                            192511.5




                                                                                                                                                                 435275
                                                                                                                          311130

                                                                                                                                    330354




                                                                                                                                                       412243
      indirect energy consumption
                                                                                                       mmbtu fuel gas                         gj fuel gas            fuel oil
                                                                            414115
                                                  400279




                                                                                                              indirect energy
                     285443.3




                                                                                                              consumption.
                                                                                                              the consumption of elec-
                                                                   115032




                                                                                                              tricity by fpc increased to
                                       111188.7




                                                                                                              114835.7 gj (31898.9 mwh)
                                                           2012
                                2011




                                                                                     2013
       0 79289.8




                                                                                                              and 13836 gj (3843.30
                                                                                                              mwh) in 2012 and 2013 re-
                                                                                                              spectively.
                    0




                                       0

                                                  0




                                                                   0

                                                                            0




                   mwh electricity                    gj electricity           steam

                                                                                                                                                                            57

                                                                  farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




                                                           water
                                                           consumption




58

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                           sustainability report 2013

our water withdrawals.
from 2011 through 2013, fpc has tracked                                       water withdrawals
and recorded its total water withdrawals
from portable, surface and ground water
sources. our portable water withdrawals for                                                                    218.8
the year 2011, 2012, 2013, are 184 km³, 215.7                                           215.7
km³ and 218.8 km³ respectively.
                                                                    184.0




                                                                                                    2012
                                                                             2011




                                                                                                                       2013
                                                                     0%                  0%                     0%
                                                                     0%                  0%                     0%

                                                                   ground water        surface water        portable water



water discharge: how we do?
in relation to water discharges, farabi discharges water into the central waste water treatment facility (cwtf) which is owned
by marafiq and governed by the royal commission (legal authority). as per regulations, all jic affiliates shall not discharge was-
tewater to the wastewater system if it exceeds the pretreatment standards at the point of discharge from their facility. further
treatment (secondary & tertiary if needed) is being given by marafiq cwtf prior to its final discharge for recycling in landscaping
and irrigation purpose.




  total water discharge      uom           quality


      average flow          m3/hr.           9.80

           tds               ppm            238.61

          toc                ppm            84.82                             discharge by quality:
                                                                              in 2013, fpc’s quality of the total
      oil & grease           ppm             0.31
                                                                              water discharge at different facility
           tss               ppm            125.58                            points are depicted as follows:

          nh3                ppm             0.21

       phosphorus            ppm        not detected

          cod                ppm            188.00

                                                                                                                                 59

                                                farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013

                                                                           total water discharge      uom   quality


                                                                               average flow           m3    85878

                                                                                   tds                mt    20.49

                                                                                   toc                mt     7.28
              discharge by quantity.
              in 2013, fpc’s quantity of the total wa-                         oil & grease           mt     0.03
              ter discharge at different facility points
                                                                                    tss               mt    10.78
              are depicted as follows:
                                                                                   nh3                mt     0.02

                                                                               phosphorus             mt     0.0

                                                                                   cod                mt    16.15




water recycled / reused:
fpc’s percentage of water recycled for the year 2011-2013, are 42.4%, 38.4% and 39.3% respectively.




                               water recycled and reused


                                                                                     39.3%
                                                           38.4%

                                42.4%
                                                                      2012
                                            2011




                                                                                                   2013

                                  0%                        0%                         0%

                                                reused water            recycle water

60

                                         farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                    sustainability report 2013




                                                                          61

farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




                                                         biodiversity
                                                         impacts




62

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                  sustainability report 2013



                                                                  environmental stewardship is a core
                                                                  value for farabi. we will continue our
managing impacts on biodiversity:                                 efforts to conserve and protect natural
strategies, current actions & future plans                        resources in our communities in colla-
                                                                  boration with sustainability partners
                                                                  such as the gulf petrochemicals & che-
                                                                  mical associations (gpca). we are also
                                                                  working with stakeholders and organi-
                                                                  zations such as the royal commission,
                                                                  local municipality and community for
                                                                  sustainable development, business for
                                                                  social responsibility and enhance our
                                                                  understanding of ecosystem services.




                                                                                                        63

                           farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




                                                        climate
                                                        change




64

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                                    sustainability report 2013

climate change.
fpc has a number of initiatives underway - both internal and external - focused on addressing climate change in our own ope-
rations. farabi has an internal climate change leadership structure called “sustainability steering committee” (ssc) that includes
teams focused on identifying and addressing the short- and long term business related risks and opportunities associated with
climate change and its policy. the steering committee, chaired by farabi technical & projects division director, is made up of all
key functions from all interfaces and provides overall leadership and guidance. this committee makes recommendations and/or
brings issues to the office of the president (oop)/management committee (mc) for consideration.




our air emissions.
fpc has tracked and recorded nox, sox and other significant air emissions by type and weight for he years 2011, 2012 and 2013
as follows:


nox, sox, and other significant air emissions by type and weight:


                                                           air emissions
                      300


                      250


                      200
                               199.11




                                                                                           184.22


                      150
                                                               137.49




                      100
                                                                                                    66.55
                                                                        63.07




                       50
                                         50.72

                                                 26.85




                                                                                                            22.17
                                                                                 16.99




                         0
                                        2011                            2012                        2013

                                                  particulates                  so       no
                                                                                    x       x
                                                                                                                                          65

                                                     farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




                                          waste disposal,
                                          recycling & reuse




66

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                       sustainability report 2013

our waste:
fpc’s waste, classified into hazardous and non-hazardous / municipal, is tracked and recorded for the years 2011, 2012 and 2014.



                       water disposal, recycling & reuse

                 400                                              hazardous

                 350                                              non-hazardous / municpal
                         334.32




                 300




                                                            311
                                   249.72




                                                                                       249
                 200


                 100
                                                   31.57




                                                                               42.4
                   0
                                  2011                     2012                       2013
disposal method:
farabi waste is disposed in accordance with rcer guidelines, and the waste reduction program was implemented throughout
2013. our hazardous waste is generally being disposed through “beea’h”, a facility approved by the royal commission that
receives, manages, treats and disposes hazardous waste either by physical chemical treatment, landfill-i, or even by incineration.
other waste management companies also provide the same service. we do not import and export hazardous waste from or
through international borders. our nonhazardous waste, which consists of industrial waste, office waste, cafeteria waste, food
waste, landscaping cleaning waste, housekeeping waste, gardening waste etc, is sent to the municipal waste handling facility
(risal) that landfills all its waste.


hazardous waste quantity was increased by 34% while non-hazardous waste quantity was decreased by 20% in 2013 in compari-
son to previous year, and this is associated with the expansion and increase of production at our existing facility




                                                                                                                              67

                                              farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013


                                                                 recycling and reuse of waste:


                                                                   farabi emphasizes to do the recycling and
                                                                   reusing of generated waste rather than di-
                                                                   sposal. we use all our slop oil generation
                                                                   in hot oil heater furnace as fuel which is
                                                                   being replaced and alternate source of fg
                                                                   consumption, which paralelly reduces car-
                                                                   bon footprint load.


                                                                   on the other hand all accumulated waste
                                                                   oil/lube oil are sent for further use by local-
                                                                   ly situated oil processing company “united
                                                                   lube oil company (unilube)” for its recy-
                                                                   cling treatments.




68

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                    sustainability report 2013




                                                                          69

farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




                                                        social
                                                        commitments




70

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                        sustainability report 2013



social responsibility must go hand-in-hand. that’s why touching and improving lives is at the heart of our business model, and
it’s what motivates us to make a difference in communities around the world. we’re demonstrating that doing well and doing
good can flow from the same purpose.


to eliminate or manage hazards & practices in our business that could cause accidents, injury or illness to people, damage to
property or unacceptable impacts on environment.


we (farabi) are committed to social responsibility through our sustainability programs for children development, people reach
out and promoting green environment by growing trees.


some of the reach out programs we have conducted in 2013 as described below:




                hand hygiene campaign.
                in line with company’s commitment towards social responsibility, fpc president had approached american cle-
                aning institute (aci) by personally visiting their office in states and committed to be a part of aci sustainability
                program. followed by this, fpc launched a “hand hygiene campaign” on 01-mar-13 in farabi petrochemicals




                                                                                                                                71

                                              farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013

the intention of the campaign was to create awareness among public particularly children about the benefits and importance of
hand hygiene. hand hygiene campaign was conducted in following major public events:




one of such events was the “al-deffi - national project for fifth scout environmental protection” organized by the royal commis-
sion for 4 days starting from 13-mar-13. during this campaign over 2000 children were educated about hand hygiene and proper
way of hand washing.


during the campaign hh prince faisal bin abdullah (ministry of education) visited fpc stall and appreciated the participation. he
gave a go ahead approval for participation for all levels of schools in eastern province as well.




•fpc has been in coordination with ministry of health (moh) delivering lectures and awareness on importance of hand washing
by visiting various schools.



72

                                         farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

farabi also participated at “scitech” exhibition organized at sultan bin abdul aziz science & technology center (http://scitech.
sa/en/contactus.php) for 5 days starting from 24-mar-13. in addition to general awareness through brochures and delivering lec-
tures, people were demonstrated on proper techniques of hand washing at our stall. over 25000 visitors attended the campaign,
majority of which were children




proper method of hand washing technique is being demonstrated:
•   light scanning of hands to show the presence of germs which are invisible for naked eye.
•   proper method as how to clean & wash.
•   re-scanning of hands after demonstration
•   message emphasized for proper hand washing leads to in minimizing germs.




during seven months of campaign we have effectively reached out about

27,000 people/ children.
we have created more awareness among the employees through various campaign on world earth day, environment day and
anti-smoking campaign. we have started to engage our stakeholders on sustainability context to demonstrate our commitment
maintaining transparency. the management approach has been finalized to set our focus for future.




                                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




                                                           gri
                                                           index




74

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                                  sustainability report 2013

   gri
                                                                                                               reference
section /                               description                                          comments
                                                                                                                 page#
indicator


1.0                                                     strategy and analysis


1.1         statement of the most senior decision-maker of the organization              fully covered         8,9


1.2         description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities.                      partially covered       15,33


2.0                                                     organizational profile


2.1         organization name                                                            fully covered         5,11


2.2         main brands, products &/or services                                          fully covered         16-19,25


2.3         operational structure of the organization                                   partly covered         12-15


2.4         headquarters                                                               partially covered       85


2.5         countries of operations                                                      fully covered         11


2.6         ownership structure and type of legal entity                                 fully covered         10-11


2.7         markets served                                                               fully covered         22-23


2.8         scale of the organization                                                  partially covered       9,11,13


2.9         significant changes                                                        partially covered       13,15




                                                                                                                          75

                                         farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013

      gri
                                                                                                                reference
   section /                                description                                       comments
                                                                                                                  page#
   indicator


   2.10          awards received                                                             fully covered      24-25



   3.0                                                             profile


   3.1           reporting period                                                            fully covered      5


   3.2           previous report’s date of publication                                       not applicable


   3.3           reporting frequency                                                         fully covered      5


   3.4           contact point for information on report                                     fully covered      5


   3.5           report scope                                                                fully covered      6-7


   3.6           modifications compared with previous report                                 not applicable


   3.7           significant changes compared with previous report                           not applicable


   3.8           assurance                                                                   not applicable


   4.0                                                           governance


   4.1           governance structure                                                       partially covered   32-33,15


   4.2           indicate whether chairman also holds an executive role                      fully covered      35




76

                                        farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                           sustainability report 2013


4.3   mission, values, codes of conduct & principles                             partially covered      27-28,31


4.4   list of stakeholders engaged                                                 fully covered        38


4.5   principles for stakeholder’s identification & selection                      fully covered        37-38


4.6   approaches to stakeholder engagement.                                        fully covered        37-39


      key topics & concerns that have been raised through stakeholder
4.7                                                                                fully covered        38
      engagement.


                                             (b) gri indicators


5.0                                         economic performance indicators


      financial implications & other risks & opportunities due to clima-
ec2                                                                              partially covered      37,8-9
      te change.


ec3   coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations            partially covered      8-9


                                                                                  no assistance
ec4   significant financial assistance received from government                     received



6.0                                                    environment


en1   materials used by weight or volume.                                         partly covered        56-59


en2   percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials.            partially covered      60


en3   direct energy consumption by primary energy source                           fully covered        56-57




                                                                                                                   77

                                   farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013


   en4           indirect energy consumption by primary source                               fully covered      56-57


   en5           energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements.              partially covered   55


   en8           total water withdrawal by source                                            fully covered      59


   en10          percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused                   partially covered   60


   en16          total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight.               fully covered      52-54


   en17          other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by wight.                  fully covered      54


   en20          nox, sox, and other significant air emissions by type and weight.           fully covered      65


   en21          total water discharge by quality and destination                            fully covered      59-60


   en22          total weight of waste by type and disposal method.                         partially covered   66-68


   7.0                                                labour practive and decent work


                 percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint ma-
   la6           nagement worker health and safety committees that help moni-               partially covered   46-47
                 tor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes.


                 rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost day’s, absenteeism
   la7                                                                                       fully covered      46-49
                 and total number of work related fatalities by region.

                 health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with
   la9                                                                                       not applicable
                 trade unions




78

                                        farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013




                                     glossary of terms
                                     & abbreviations




80

                             farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                             sustainability report 2013



     s.no   terms | abbreviations                                       description



01          fpc                                               farabi petrochemicals company


02          ssc                                          farabi – sustainability steering committee


03          sheac                               farabi – safety health environment awareness committee


04          lab                                             linear alkyl benzene (main product)


05          np                                                   normal paraffin (product)


                                         green house gas - is a gas in an atmosphere that absorbs and emits radi-
                                         ation within the thermal infrared range. the primary greenhouse gases in
06          ghg
                                        the earth’s atmosphere are water vapour, carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous
                                                                      oxide, and ozone.

                                        scope 1 emissions are direct ghg emissions from sources that are owned
                                        or controlled by the entity. scope 1 can include emissions from fossil fuels
07          scope-1
                                        burned on site, emissions from entity-owned or entity-leased vehicles, and
                                                                    other direct sources.


                                       scope 2 emissions are indirect ghg emissions resulting from the generation
                                       of electricity, heating and cooling, or steam generated off site but purchased
08          scope-2
                                       by the entity, and the transmission and distribution (t&d) losses associated
                                                                with some purchased utilities.


                                        scope 3 emissions include indirect ghg emissions from sources not owned
09          scope-3
                                           or directly controlled by the entity but related to the entity’s activities

                                         stakeholder, an accountant, group, organization, member or system who
10          stakeholders
                                            affects or can be affected directly or indirectly by an organization’s.




                                                                                                                      81

                                    farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013



        s.no      terms | abbreviations                                           description


                                                 product stewardship is an environmental management strategy that means
                                                 whoever designs, produces, sells, or uses a product takes responsibility for
   11            product stewardship
                                                 minimizing the product’s environmental impact throughout all stages of the
                                                                            products’ life cycle.


   12            psms                                             product stewardship management system


                                                  carbon disclosure projects, cdp works with 3,000 of the largest corpora-
                                                 tions in the world to help them ensure that an effective carbon emissions /
                                                reductions strategy is made integral to their business. this effort is imagined
   12            cdp                            as taken seriously because of the size of the shareholdings backing cdp - 655
                                                  institutional investors with $78 trillion under management. cdp operates
                                                   from berlin, new york and london and has partners in 18 of the world’s
                                                           major economies which help deliver the program globally.

                                                 american cleaning institute, aci sustainability definition is the ability to im-
                                                 prove the quality of life for this and future generations, by creating products
   13            aci
                                                  that promote hygiene and cleanliness, are environmentally sound, and are
                                                                             economically successful.

                                                 global reporting initiative, gri is a leading organization in the sustainability
                                                 field. gri promotes the use of sustainability reporting as a way for organiz-
   14            gri
                                                 ations to become more sustainable and contribute to sustainable develop-
                                                                                       ment.

                                                 the g3.1 guidelines are an update and completion of the third generation of
   15            gri g3.1
                                                                gri’s sustainability reporting guidelines, g3.


                                                the gri application level check confirms that a sustainability report has the
   16            gri application check          required set and number of disclosures to meet the organization’s self-decla-
                                                                           red application level.


   17            co2                                                            carbon dioxide




82

                                         farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                               sustainability report 2013



     s.no   terms | abbreviations                                       description



18          co2- e                                               carbon dioxide equivalent


19          ch4                                                           methane


20          n2o                                                        nitrous oxide


21          gpca                                      gulf petrochemicals and chemicals associations


22          rcms                                          responsible care management system


23          nox                                                      oxides of nitrogen


24          sox                                                      oxides of sulphur


25          ipcc                                        intergovernmental panel on climate change


26          ppm                                                       part per million


27          gj                                                           giga joule


28          mmbtu                                               million british thermal unit


29          kwh                                                        kilowatt-hour


30          mwh                                                       megawatt-hour




                                                                                                                     83

                                    farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

sustainability report 2013


   31            mt                                                      metric ton


   32            m3                                                     cubic meter


                                      materiality principle: the report should cover aspects that reflect the organi-
   33            materiality          zation’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts; or substanti-
                                              vely influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.




84

                               farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

                                                                                    sustainability report 2013




contact details:

farabi petrochemicals company
jubail industrial city,
po box 11763,
ksa 31961.


tel: +966 13356 5000
fax: +966 13356 5005/6
web: www.farabipc.com
e-mail: esc@farabipc.com




                                                                                                          85

                                farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

 farabi petrochemical company; all rights reserved

released by sustainability steering committee (ssc) |  designed by www.imuhandis.com
