                 2017
sustainability
       report




                    64

corporate philosophy




corporate creed

corporate creed
“sincerity” has been the foster group’s corporate creed since its establishment.
by the term “sincerity,” we mean the act of treating all concerned parties of the company with a sincere approach.
the concept of csr, which shares the same basic philosophy as the corporate creed of “sincerity,” has always
governed the company’s corporate management and business operations since its foundation.
to continue to grow in the coming age. we believe it is important for each member of the foster group to act in
accordance with the csr philosophy, or the corporate creed of “sincerity,” which we have adhered to since our
establishment.




    corporate creed                                vision                               mission


    sincerity                                     to make
                                            contributions for
                                                                               through acoustic
                                                                               products or its solutions,
                                                                               a total commitment to
                                                                               help create a comfortable
                                              future society                   life and pleasure of
                                           through acoustics                   communication around
                                                                               the world. a truly global
                                                                               enterprise our future
                                                                               society counts on.




contents

corporate philosophy                          1            governance                                   19
top message                                   3           society                                       27
interview                                     5           environment                                   37
foster group csr management                   7           corporate profile and financial               43
                                                          information
united nations global compact (cop)          17
                                                          corporate history                             45
                                                          data table                                    47




1

                                                                                               corporate philosophy




foster rhythm


“foster rhythm” is our guide to ensure we all move in the same direction to achieve our goals and dreams so we
always move closer to our inspiring “vision.”
our “mission” motivates us to help people achieve new happiness via acoustic technology, and our “values” are
guides to filter our choices so our actions support of all stakeholders.
our “principles” conduct us to create perfect harmony and achieve the best results together.
our “management system” of processes and tools helps us to practice, learn and grow as members of the foster
family, evolving new habits for future success.




                                - principles & values -


                 i                                      ii                                   iii
    the leading                                     always                            ever more
   sound-to-life                                  improving                           global and
     solution                                                                          inclusive
     company
 strive to be number one in               create a more efficient,               embrace diversity and
 the global acoustic fields.              effective, profitable and better       pursue more global synergy
 innovate to support ever                 place to work. always seek             at all management levels.
 wider market needs.                      new market categories and
                                          opportunities.

 1. trusted: earn trust of users and      4. fast and flexible: be fast-         8. open-minded: be open–
    partners.                                moving and flexible                    minded and inclusive
 2. expert: take pride in our             5. reliable quality: deliver totally   9. responsible: fulfill our duty
    expertise in acoustic                    reliable quality via ever more         to protect people and the
    technology                               efficient systems                      environment.
 3. inspiring: add unique value,          6. proactive: embrace learning         10. team: respect others as
    motivate partners and excite             and proactive leadership                part of a team with shared
    customers.                                                                       goals.
                                          7. steadfast: show steadfast
                                             dedication in going beyond our
                                             promised goals



                                                                                                                    2

               top message




               top message




fostex speaker system g2000a


               3
                               hiromi yoshizawa president

                                                                                                                                  top message



corporate social responsibility and management
as we fulfill our corporate social responsibilities, foster group sincerely wishes to be a corporate citizen that is relied on
and loved by our various stakeholders. it seeks to do this by maintaining the consistent spirit of doing business for society
and people based on our corporate creed of “sincerity.”

omi shonin (merchants from modern shiga prefecture), used to say that in business you should have “three goods”—good
for the seller, good for the buyer and good for the society. i believe that many corporate entities that have been operating
for more than 100 years secure these “three goods” by making reasonable profits and returning them for the good of
society. securing these “three goods,” we also aim to be a centennial company that has a shining presence in the coming
new society.

society is currently experiencing major changes. with the industrial revolution being brought about by iot (internet of
things), cars with automated driving capabilities, the growing use of drones, the development of ai and many other
advances, we feel that the development of technologies with the potential to fundamentally change our way of life, and
other changes in society, are progressing undeniably, at a pace that far exceeds anything that we anticipated.
in order to realize our corporate vision “to make contributions for future society through acoustics” and provide thrilling,
heart-moving experiences that resonate with people around the world, we must continue to uphold the basic philosophy
of “sincerity” that foster has adhered to since its founding, while simultaneously making major changes ourselves as
we move forward. the key players who have a central role in achieving this are people, the tens of thousands of foster
group employees around the world. in addition to producing higher-caliber human resources, increasing opportunities
for personnel exchange to achieve greater globalization and improving and enhancing our training programs, we will also
make proactive efforts to utilize and promote a wider range of human resources within our organization. we will accelerate
reforms to our working method to enable a greater number of valuable human resources to overcome various constraints,
to excel and to play an active role within the foster group. we will seek to achieve diversity, in the true meaning of the
word.

to unite people with digital technology through acoustics and become a company that is loved by all, foster will continue
to be a specialist in acoustics that pursues better quality sound to delight music-lovers worldwide.
in addition, the foster group will continue to maintain compliance and promote environmental activities as part of our
csr activities, to ensure thorough quality control and risk management, and conduct our business operations based on
the values of discipline, responsibility and social contribution.
foster group has signed the “united nations global compact” to represent our commitment to csr activities. we have
also defined “foster rhythm” to clearly describe “principles & values,” penetrate the concept of our corporate philosophy
to our employees, and strengthen and hand the foundation of the corporation on to future generations.
we will continue to strive to become an enterprise that is loved by society and that offers satisfaction for its various
stakeholders.



technologies involving interfaces between
acoustic signals and human beings
strengthen vibration components initiative                                           iot                       ai
- develop “making sound” into “making vibrations” -                            (internet of things)   (artificial intelligence)




                                                   wearable            robotics               drones
                                                   devices



                                          autonomous            vr              develop actuators that enable tactile
                                                                                interactivity in gaming, manufacturing,
                                          driving/adas     (virtual reality)
                                                                                and medical settings


                                            develop new products equipped
                                            with vibration components
                                                                                                                                            4

interview




interview

challenges of foster to become a
centennial company
foster group will mark its 68th anniversary in july of this year. we have responded to the expectations of our customers
all over the world, “enjoying sounds,” through the oem business specialized in acoustic products since our founding.
those products have been born from “the power of approximately 50 thousand employees” who are working around the
world.

looking forward, we have started to become a corporation with a history of 100 years, a centennial company. the bridge
between the foster of the past and the future foster targeting its 100th year anniversary depends mostly on the power of
each employee.

to achieve these goals and dreams, approach the “vision” of “making
contributions for future society through acoustics” and to align the vectors
of all members, foster employees played a central role in developing the
“foster rhythm guidebook.” this so-called manual provides guidance
for our daily behavior. currently, employees around the world have the
“principles & values” card, which has been translated into nine languages.

together with the “foster rhythm,” the skills that will lead us to the future
are nothing less than the acoustic technology that we have accumulated                           foster rhythm card
over more than 60 years. we have especially focused on acoustic quality
to improve our technology.

it is said that the most important part that determines the quality of a speaker’s sound is generally the one made of a
saucer-shaped thin material, called the diaphragm. this diaphragm is the part that converts the sound signals input via
various means such as a cd or a smartphone into vibrations and outputs them as audible sounds. in other words, for us
to hear any sounds from the speaker, the diaphragm plays the role of an interface between acoustic signals and human
beings.

the diaphragm that produces sounds is generally called cone paper. relying on the fact that sounds differ depending
on the selection and manufacturing method for cone paper materials, we test the possibilities of various materials at the
development division in akishima headquarters in tokyo and develop the materials that are the most suitable for these
respective sounds.

                                                              it is said that the materials most suitable for the cone paper
                                                              should have the following three elements: 1. lightness,
                                                              2. strength, and 3. internal loss (vibration energy damping). in
                                                              addition to the conventional paper pulps, we combine a wide
                                                              range of materials such as non-wood pulp (kenaf); natural
                                                              materials including mitsumata, which is also used for bills, and
                                                              ganpi, which is also used for japan paper; and high-modulus
                                                              fibers including aramid and carbon to explore the possibilities of a
                                                              limitless expanse of sounds.

                                                              cellulose nanofiber is a material that our development engineers
                                                              have employed to actual cone paper in collaboration with
                                                              a material manufacturer. there are various types of cellulose
                                                              nanofibers such as one made of wood and one produced
        takashi mikuniya, material development section,
    speaker engineering department 3, sp business division    with the help of bacteria. the thickness of a single fiber is
    in charge of the development of the diaphragm materials

5

                                                                                                                    interview


approximately 1/5000 to 1/10,000 of human hair, yet it is five times stronger than iron. while maintaining that strength,
the internal loss (vibration energy dump) performance of this fiber contributes to the production of quality sounds that are
obviously different from the other materials.

as you see with the case of the cellulose nanofiber, our development engineers who keep exploring suitable materials are
like “cooks” who create recipes of materials that will produce quality sounds, from various materials. using those recipes, we
manufacture cone paper at our internal factories in china and myanmar. this is because we deeply understand that different
recipes for cone paper create different sounds that are desired by customers, which is to say, those recipes are the source
of our value creation.

speakers generally consist of a small number of parts. with
such a limited number of components, which create the different
sounds, we closely examine materials with a strong persistence
for each of those parts to create the recipes of the materials.
the recipe created by a “cook” (development engineer) is
then handed over to another “cook” (design engineer), who
combines such parts to produce the sounds that are desired
by our customers.

our customers deliver the sounds we have produced through
various types of products, including automobiles, smartphones,
and audio products to their end-users as top-level companies in
each field. they are located in not only japan but also in a wide         masahiro miwa, diaphragm engineering section,
range of regions such as asia, america, and europe. therefore,         speaker engineering department 3, sp business division
                                                                                 in charge of developing diaphragms
they have different cultural backgrounds and substantially
different target “sounds.” to catch the subtleties of those desired “sounds” is very much a part of the technology we have
accumulated.

                                                            in the section “foster rhythm” above, “steadfast” and “expert”
                                                            are listed as “principles & values.” while focusing on the
                                                            analog area (using sounds to appeal to hearing, which is one
                                                            of the five senses of human beings), we continue our steady
                                                            efforts to sincerely produce the “sounds” that are desired by
                                                            our customers as specialists. we will continue to recognize its
                                                            value.

                                                            like many other excellent companies, we will continue to work
                                                            towards our ambition of being a centennial company while
                                                            appreciating our corporate culture of the “three goods”—good
                                                            for the seller, good for the buyer and good for the society—
                                                            (“we do our best for our customers and other stakeholders
                                                            while keeping in mind that a proper attitude as human beings
                                                            is more important than acquiring income from the business”).

                                                            we will also continue to develop as a specialist of sounds and
                                                            fulfill our social mission with “sincerity” to contribute to the
                                                            continuous development of society.
       yuji yokota, speaker engineering department 2,
                     sp business division
        in charge of designing speakers for customers




                                                                                                                            6

foster group csr management




csr management

since its founding, the foster group has aimed to become indispensable
to society, and has continued to grow and develop under its corporate
philosophy of “sincerity.” for more than half a century since its founding,
the group has continued its activities in the spirit of its corporate creed of
“sincerity,” the essence of which remains unchanged to date.
with the 70th anniversary in 2019, while “aiming to be a centennial
company” the group recognizes it as the key to continue to adhere to
the management that is based on its corporate creed of “sincerity,” that
is, “always convey the truth and offer human- and environmentally friendly
services to all stakeholders with cordiality.”

the foster group’s corporate governance code, which was established
in 2015, presents “appropriate cooperation with stakeholders other than
shareholders” as one of its basic principles. this reflects the ever-increasing
social demand for the environmental, social and governance (esg) activities                    atsushi narikawa
of a business entity. the foster group and all of its directors, officers and       officer in charge of csr, senior managing director

employees hereby declare that we will engage in “corporate activities with
sincerity” in accordance with the csr charter below. we will also continue to seek greater corporate value by addressing
the needs and expectations of our stakeholders in the most appropriate way.



foster group csr charter
foster group’s activities are under the corporate creed of “sincerity”, and vision of “to make contributions for future
society through acoustics” and its mission “through acoustic products or its solutions, a total commitment to help create
a comfortable life and pleasure of communication around the world. a truly global enterprise our future society counts on.”

a subject of “corporate social responsibility” itself is a universal proposition in the deployment of corporate management
at foster groups. as shown in the corporate creed, a csr way of thinking has lied beneath in this company from the
time of its foundation.

csr or csr management that suit foster groups, who extends business activities globally, are “to concentrate on
its core business based on the corporate creed for the purpose of sustainable development of a company as a global
corporation, and to fulfill its social responsibility by enhancing the corporate value while raising the stakeholder satisfaction
not only in financial aspect, but also in the harmony of environment and society aspects”. the csr management means
that the corporation fulfills its social responsibilities through such activities.

in achieving this objective from global perspectives, the foster group and all of directors and employees will initiate csr
activities based on followings.
1. we stand and act on our corporate creed, vision and mission.
2. we act in accordance with the “foster group corporate action guideline” that a company should comply, and the
   “foster group code of conduct for staffs” that all directors and employees of the group should abide by.
3. we regard variety of stakeholders including customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders and investors, and local
   communities as the subject of our csr activities, and pay respect to diversified sense of “value”, “culture” and
   “economic, environmental or social” circumstances that vary depending on countries or areas.
4. we act in accordance with laws, regulations of home and abroad, and international rules by responding to various
   requirements. those requirements are compliance to corporate ethics, security of product quality and safety,
   environmental protection, improvement of work environment, maintenance of employment, development of human
   resources, respect to human rights, fair competition, contribution to society and community, and proper tax payment.


7

                                                                                                  foster group csr management


5. we perform proper risk control, disclose information timely and adequately with accountability to support the reliability
   of csr, and put value on having dialogue with stakeholders.
6. we identify company representatives responsible for ensuring implementation of the management systems and
   associated programs in order to comply with this csr charter. status review, with personnel designated by
   managements, is held on a regular basis.
by conforming to this csr charter, we hereby declare to engage in the “corporate activity with sincerity.”



foster group csr promotion
foster group csr systems
as shown in the following “csr system,” foster group has established the csr committee with representatives of related
sections as core members at its headquarters. csr committee meetings are held monthly to ensure the monitoring and
collaborative promotion of csr activities on a group-wide basis, including overseas business locations, each of which
has an appointed person responsible for the promotion of csr activities.


                                               general meeting of shareholders

             board of statutory auditors             board of directors                accounting auditor

                                                             president

             internal audit department

                                                  officer in charge of csr

            csr promotion department
                                                                                   relevant committees
                                                                                     compliance committee
                                                       csr committee                 risk and crisis management committee
                                                                                     environment committee, etc.


                                                    csr representative



                corporate divisions and business divisions                       group companies




                                                                                                                            8

foster group csr management


conceptual drawing of csr management
the underlying concept of the csr management is a triple bottom line, which evaluates the corporation from the three
aspects: economy, environment and society. csr management provides improved corporate value and new value
to stakeholders not only in the financial (economic) aspects, but also in the sustainable development of non-financial
(environment and social) aspects.


                                                                                                                                stakeholders
                                                                                                 sustainable development
                                                                                                                                   clients
                                                                                                                                 consumers
                                                                provision of new value                 engagement
                                                            improvement of corporate value                                       shareholders
                                                                       sustainably                                                 investors
                                                                   developing domains
                                                                                                                               directors/officers
                                                           ideal centennial company                                               employees
                                                back casting
                                                             with a century of history
                csr reflecting our                                        the ten principles of the united
                                                  respond to                                                                      suppliers
                 corporate value                social demands             nations global compact
                                                                          eicc code of conduct
                                                                                                                                 communities
                                                              socially valuable domains                                       future generations


                                                                  environment                human rights                     governmental
                                     risk management                                                                              agencies
                                                                  anti-corruption            industrial safety and health
                                     compliance with laws
                   basic csr           and regulations
                                                                  corporate governance       quality and product safety
                                                                  disclosure of information  information security, etc.          industry

                                                                    business domains
                     triple
                                        economy                          environment                      society                    sustainability
                bottom line




core of csr activities
the foster group issued the first version of its csr charter in 2006, and updated it to pursue global versatility and
universality in 2010, by incorporating the eicc®* code of conduct, the csr standards established by u.s. electronic
industry citizenship coalition, as our basic policy. items originally set out by the company have also been added to
the code for reinforcement of the group’s csr management. in addition to these efforts, we also implement our csr
activities in compliance with the united nations global compact and the iso 26000 standards.
* electronic industry citizenship coalition


development of csr materiality
the foster group developed the csr materiality for the first time in 2016. the development method and procedures
were determined by extracting the important items for csr from the policies and their items set out by the company.
the basic policies and extracted items are:

1. the major policy “to establish a base of global business and create a profitable structure toward the year 2020” from
   “2016 managerial policy.”
2. the following two items were extracted from “annual tqm (total quality management) policy for fiscal year(2016)”:
    ∙ draw and execute an improvement plan suitable for the maturity of each site for “customer claim reduction” measures.
    ∙ establish a global environment management system and embody and promote the orientation of “energy
      management” targeting 2020.
3. the following two items were extracted from “environmental policy”:
    ∙ conserve the global environment by promoting resource and energy saving in product development and design.
    ∙ prevent contamination and reduce co2 emissions in all phases of business activities including manufacturing and
      disposal.
4. the item “raise the awareness of environmental protection and biodiversity and thereby develop human resources
   who contribute to society” was extracted from the “medium-term environmental policy.”




9

                                                                                                                                                                                                              foster group csr management


the extracted materiality items are as follows:
1. responsibilities in the value chain: decent work, quality, customer-oriented and environmental conservation
2. global human resource development and utilization
3. csr-based global group governance
for item 1, we consider the entire value chain as a primary body and divided it into items for “strengthening positive
effects” and items for “minimizing negative effects.” from each of those items, we extracted the detailed items.

                                                                                                                                                            quality and sustainable product supply




                                        influences on stakeholders' evaluation and decision making
                                                                                                                     scope 3: ghg reduction                decent work
                                                                                                                  lca (life cycle assessment)          organization's global system establishment and
                                                                                                                                                       governance strengthening

                                                                                                                                                       penetration of our philosophies
                                                                                                                                                       global human resource development




                                                                                                             degrees of economic, environmental and
                                                                                                               social influences of the organization



csr materiality-based pdca
          goal                            materiality                                                                                           results and progress                                                 future plan
                                                                                                                                    we implemented various                                           we will conduct hearings on a
                                                                                                                                    activities such as reduced                                       periodic basis and perform usefulness
                                                                                                                                    working hours in the first year of                               assessments.
                                                                                                                                    the working style innovation.
                                                                                                     decent work                    we signed the united nations                                     we will continue to collect information
                                                                                                                                    global compact and started                                       through subcommittee activities and
                          strengthening                                                                                             considerations on activities                                     further strengthen our activities in the
                          positive effects                                                                                          regarding human rights and labor                                 supply chain.
 1. responsibilities in                                                                                                             for 10 principles in four areas.
    the value chain:                                                                                                                we maintained a record of zero                                   we will maintain a record of zero failures
    decent work,                                                                                     quality and                    failures that would have serious                                 that would have serious influences on
    quality, customer-                                                                               sustainable                    influences on society (human life,                               society (human life, property, environment
    oriented and                                                                                     product supply                 property, environment and so on).                                and so on) and reduce customer
    environmental                                                                                                                                                                                    complaints.
    conservation                                                                                                                    we started considerations                                        we will develop an activity plan for the
                                                                                                     lca                            aiming to define the life cycle                                  future using the results of consideration
                                                                                                     (life cycle assess)            range and set kpis.                                              on the definition of the life cycle range and
                          minimizing                                                                                                                                                                 setting of the kpis.
                          negative                                                                                                  in addition to scopes 1 and 2,                                   we will develop an activity plan for the
                          effects                                                                                                   which we already had started                                     future using the results of consideration on
                                                                                                     scope 3: ghg
                                                                                                                                    implementing, we started                                         scope 3: ghg reduction.
                                                                                                     reduction
                                                                                                                                    considerations for reducing
                                                                                                                                    ghg in scope 3.
                                                                                                                                    to further promote diversity,                                    we will continue to implement our current
                                                                                                                                    we started consideration on                                      activities. in addition, we will conduct
                                                                                                                                    the introduction of a global                                     global leadership training on a regular
                          global human resource
                                                                                                                                    grade system, which enables                                      basis.
                          development
 2. global human                                                                                                                    employees at group companies
    resource                                                                                                                        worldwide to work more
    development and                                                                                                                 globally.
    utilization                                                                                                                     we developed the “foster                                         we will adapt the philosophies of foster
                                                                                                                                    rhythm guidebook” to penetrate                                   rhythm to concrete activities for their
                          penetration of our philosophies                                                                           our philosophies, and started                                    penetration into the entire group.
                                                                                                                                    distributing it to all employees in
                                                                                                                                    our group.
                                                                                                                                    we selected the persons                                          we will continue the csr promotion
                          organization's global system                                                                              in charge of csr at the                                          activities for group companies based on
 3. csr-based global
                          establishment and governance                                                                              headquarters and seven group                                     the established csr promotion system.
    group governance
                          strengthening                                                                                             companies, and established a
                                                                                                                                    global csr structure.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10

foster group csr management



csr assessments and audits
csr internal audits
in order to penetrate csr at the manufacturing sites, the foster group is implementing csr internal audits. we
implemented 43 total internal audits at the facilities in the last fiscal year. we implemented the audits by basically using
the local laws as the standards and guidelines and also by referencing various social requests such as the eicc code of
conduct, eicc vap(validated audit process), sa8000 and customer standards to confirm compliance of the activities
and check for any measures beyond the laws.


customer audits and assessments
to meet various requests from customers, the foster group accepts audits by customers at its manufacturing sites. in
terms of the environment and occupational safety and health, our production facilities in china and vietnam received 16
on-site audits by 4 corporate customers during the period from april 2016 to march 2017. over the course of the year,
we also received 20 requests (from 11 different customers) to complete and return self-assessment questionnaire, and
we responded to these requests accordingly.
we will continue to focus attention on the environment and safety in our manufacturing practices and address requests
from customers with sincerity.




                external view of the factory in vietnam                        customer audit closing meeting (china)



surveys from external organizations
the foster group also responded sincerely to the csr surveys received from external investigatory bodies. last year, we
received and responded to eight surveys regarding csr, environmental management, esg, sri and others.
among them, as a result of the “csr company ranking survey,” which was conducted by toyo keizai inc., we ranked
248th, which was a significant improvement from 323rd two years ago. we will continue to address the survey requests
from external investigatory bodies with sincerity.




11

                                                                                          foster group csr management



expansion of csr in-house education
holding the global csr communication conference
we held the “global csr communication conference” on november 15 and 16, 2016. a total of 29 directors, officers
and employees involved in csr gathered from the headquarters and 10 overseas sites on penang island, malaysia,
where the southeast asia procurement center is located, in order to exchange their opinions through the accumulation
of knowledge, information sharing, team building and other initiatives to accelerate the foster group's csr activities.
we will continue to provide places for periodic communication to deepen mutual understanding beyond cultural, ethnic
and regional borders and unite as the foster group to actively promote in-house csr education.




                                                   people holding discussions




                                                   group photo of participants




                                                                                                                    12

foster group csr management



contributions to the community
policies
with our mission “through acoustic products or its solutions, a total commitment to help create a comfortable life and
pleasure of communication around the world. a truly global enterprise our future society counts on,” the foster group
will seek to build the trust of the community through our business activities to evolve jointly with inhabitants in local
communities.


code of conduct
we actively participate in social contribution activities as a good corporate citizen to contribute to the development of
society.
we continuously conduct social contribution activities such as support for culture and the arts, cooperation with local
society, participation in volunteer activities and contributions to international society to play the role of a corporate citizen.


activity promotion structure
the foster group's social contribution activities are promoted by the csr promotion department in cooperation with all
departments, including general affairs, manufacturing, engineering and sales.


main activities
communicating with the community
we continued the naming rights contract with akishima city regarding akishima community hall, which is known locally
as kotori hall by the citizens of akishima city. the kotori brand name was given to the hall by foster in april 2014.
in october 2016, foster hosted the seventh “screen music-no-utage” music festival. at the event, foster exhibited
and sold kotori brand products. it built bridges between people in the local community and the company with the
corporate philosophy of contributing to future society through acoustics.




                                              products being exhibited at kotori hall




13

                                                                                                  foster group csr management


as a company that regards harmony with the environment as one of its highest priority issues in its business management
activities, foster held environmental studies class sessions and invited elementary school students in akishima city to take
part in october 2016. these sessions enabled the children who will play a role as the next generation of adults to learn
about the importance of environmental preservation, and about the care for the environment that goes into our products.




     our product being explained at the gallery of our headquarters   session about our care for the environment (headquarters)

as a member of akishima city’s environmentally friendly business operator network, we took part in the akishima
industrial festival, where we promoted our environmental activities and eco-friendly products, and also heard the valuable
opinions of members of the local community in relation to our activities.




                           exhibition booth                                 our products being introduced at the booth

investing in human resources for the future
in december 2016, we held a speaker study class for general citizens at the citizen's college forum and a winter
vacation parent & child crafts class for sponsoring the event as a part of the akishima crafts classroom community
course as a winter holiday event for parent-child interaction. the event was well received by local citizens as an event that
created good memories for the winter holidays.




               trainers who taught at the crafts class                                   making speakers

                                                                                                                                  14

foster group csr management


in march 2017, we held a speaker making class, which was the first event sponsored for children by our consumer brand
fostex company, at “anfelit” showroom, where the fostex products were exhibited. eight children, between late
elementary to junior high school students, learned the mechanism of sound making and enjoyed making speakers that
play melodies.




                      making speakers                             listening to sounds from the speakers that the children made

sponsoring community development
in addition to these activities, foster is promoting activities for exposing people to local traditional cultures through
akishima showa no mori organization and akishima tourism & city planning association, in which our headquarters
participates. foster is also deepening communications with the local community through efforts such as cooperation with
the akishima location service to engage in activities for revitalizing the local area and donations to the social welfare
council to contribute to welfare in the local community.

crime prevention and disaster readiness initiatives
wishing the success of 2020 tokyo olympic and paralympic games, foster is cooperating with the tokyo metropolitan
police department’s antep (anti-terrorism partnership, tokyo) initiative, conducting disaster drills under fire department
oversight, and otherwise bolstering its crime prevention and disaster readiness initiatives in the local community.


future plan
based on the foster group's policies, we will continue to conduct activities for communicating with not only the people
in the community, but also a wide range of stakeholders through our acoustic products and solutions.




15

                                                                                                foster group csr management



community contribution activities at overseas sites
                                              foster group's overseas manufacturing sites are active in local human
                                              resource development. we accept students from universities and career
                                              colleges in the local communities for internship placements, providing students
                                              with opportunities to deepen their expertise by learning through practice and
                                              acquiring techniques that have not been taught in schools. the foster thilawa
                                              in myanmar not only accepted students for internships but also donated
                                              machines for learning to thanlyin technological university so that the students
   students from thanlyin technological       can learn techniques and practice at school too.
     university visiting foster thilawa



                                                      in 2016, central vietnam suffered flooding and the inhabitants suffered
                                                      extensive damage. our subsidiary in vietnam is conducting support
                                                      activities for the disaster victims. clothes, rain coats, blankets,
                                                      drinking water containers and other items were delivered to the
                                                      disaster victims. our subsidiary also donated money collected from
                                                      employees to the victims.
    employees of group company in vietnam and
            people in the affected area

                                                                                 foster group's overseas companies are
                                                                                 engaged in various volunteering activities.
                                                                                 our subsidiary provides support to match the
                                                                                 needs of inhabitants in local communities;
                                                                                 such as donation activities for children in
                                                                                 low-income households and the distribution
     donation activity for children             donation activity for deprived
      in low-income households                       areas conducted by          of essential daily supplies for impoverished
     conducted by the employees                 the employees at our group       families.
  at our group company in vietnam                     company in china
                                                                                 our subsidiary has also actively participated
                                                  in the blood donation activities held by the red cross in that area.
                                                  some overseas sites also conduct blood donation activities held within
                                                  the company on a regular basis every year and many employees have
                                                  participated.
                                                  every year since 2004, under the corporate vision “to make contributions
                                                  for future society through acoustics,” estec corporation, a group
    blood donation activity conducted             company in south korea, cosponsors the eom jeong haeng south korea
   by the employees at foster indonesia           national choir contest.
                                                  in line with the thinking of the company's officers—that if everyone works
                                                 together and combines their power, it is easy to help at least one person—
                                                 the collected donations are being conveyed, via the inhabitant life support
                                                 office, to people in need of support in the yangsan area in february and
                                                 september 2016.
                                                 on december 3, 2016, all the employees at estec attended the “with
                                                 compassion—share kimchi” campaign, and donated 1,500 kg of
                                                 handmade kimchi for the coming winter to a volunteer center in yangsan
                                                 city. these donation activities have been carried out every year since 2010.




  “with compassion—share kimchi” campaign
     in which the chairman and president of
       estec corporation also participated


                                                                                                                           16

united nations global compact




un global compact

united nations global compact
the foster group signed and joined the “united nations global compact (ungc),” the world’s largest corporate
sustainability initiative promoted by the united nations, in january 19, 2017.
as a company that operates globally, we support the 10 principles of the ungc of “human rights,” “labour,”
“environment” and “anti-corruption” and conduct activities for compliance, decent work, care for the environment, and
csr procurement, etc.
to report the progress of those activities, we prepared the communication on progress (cop) for fiscal 2017.


ungc communication on progress (cop) 2017
 human rights                                                              the foster group's commitments to human rights,
                businesses should support and respect the protection of    labor, environment and anti-corruption are defined in
 principle 1                                                               the foster group code of conduct for staffs. this code
                internationally proclaimed human rights; and
                                                                           covers the provisions of the eicc (electronic industry
                make sure that they are not complicit in human rights      citizenship coalition) code of conduct and rev. 4,
 principle 2
                abuses.                                                    which was revised in april 2017, is currently effective.
 labour                                                                    the items that correspond to the 10 principles are:
                businesses should uphold the freedom of association
                                                                           human rights
 principle 3    and the effective recognition of the right to collective
                                                                             10. responsible sourcing of minerals
                bargaining;
                                                                             23. respect to human rights and no discrimination
                the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory      labour
 principle 4
                labour;                                                      23. respect to human rights and no discrimination
 principle 5    the effective abolition of child labour; and                 27. compliance with labor-related laws
                                                                           environment
                the elimination of discrimination in respect of              17. preservation and protection of environment
 principle 6
                employment and occupation.                                 anti-corruption
 environment                                                                 2. compliance with laws and norm
                                                                             8. prohibition on bribes to foreign officials
                businesses should support a precautionary approach to
 principle 7
                environmental challenges;
                                                                           in addition, our commitments to the environment are
                undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental     defined in the foster group environmental policy.
 principle 8
                responsibility; and
                encourage the development and diffusion of
 principle 9
                environmentally friendly technologies.
 anti-corruption
                businesses should work against corruption in all its
 principle 10
                forms, including extortion and bribery.




                                           ■ foster group's activities regarding ungc:
                                             http://www.foster-electric.com/csr/ungc/index.html
                                           ■ foster group code of conduct for staff:
                                             http://www.foster-electric.com/csr/governance/pdf/coc_for_staffs.pdf
                                           ■ foster group environmental policy:
                                              http://www.foster-electric.com/csr/environment/index.html




17

                                                                                           united nations global compact


sustainable development goals (sdgs)
in line with the signature of ungc, the foster group will continue to promote the sustainable development goals (sdgs),
which are proposed by the united nations, and conduct other csr activities through the ungc framework.

we will promote the following items among the 17 goals through our business activities to support societal change.




■ sustainable development goals (sdgs):
  united nations website: http://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals/




                                                                                                                     18

governance




governance

the corporate management division is carrying out
its operations regarding finance, accounting,
ir (investor relations), legal affairs and intellectual
property.
it has a function that governs not only the headquarters
in japan but also the subsidiaries around the world.




corporate governance                                                                          tatsuhito tanaka
                                                                                executive officer and head of corporate management division
policies
to maximize our corporate and shareholder values, we recognize the importance of establishing a fair and sound corporate
management system and a managerial structure that enables quick and accurate decision making to accommodate an
ever-changing business environment, and the execution of legitimate and appropriate business operations. to that end,
we are currently working to improve and enhance our approach to corporate governance.


corporate governance structure
board of directors
meetings of the board of directors are held regularly on a monthly basis and whenever necessary to discuss and decide
important agenda items and the execution of important business concerning the group’s management policies and
strategies. it supervises the management from an independent and objective standpoint.

board of managing directors
the board of managing directors mainly consists of representative directors, managing directors, executive directors,
senior executive officers and statutory auditor. they hold discussions at the meetings before making decisions on the
execution of business operations.

management meeting, etc.
mainly comprising the president and the head of the company’s business divisions (including those who serve concurrently
as director or executive officer), the management meetings and the division head meetings are held to report and discuss
matters concerning the execution of businesses at the business divisions, in order to expedite decision making processes
and ensure that unified decisions are reached.
on a group-wide level, twice a year, in order to facilitate consolidated management within the group, the domestic group
company meeting is held by the top executives responsible for the management of the domestic group companies;
the global budget meeting is held by the top executives of the overseas group companies to discuss their budgets;
and the global strategy meeting is held to discuss global strategies with regard to sales, technology, quality control and
manufacturing. through these meetings, we share and reaffirm the direction in which the entire foster group is heading,
and reinforce collaborative efforts within the group.

nominating committee and remuneration committee
the company has established nominating and remuneration committees as advisory organizations offering voluntary
advice to the board of directors. these committees are designed to enhance fairness and transparency in selecting and
appointing people to managerial positions, and in determining the details of their remuneration, etc. each committee


19

                                                                                                                                    governance


consists of representative directors, managing directors, directors, standing statutory auditors, and statutory auditors
(currently a total of six members including two independent officers).
                                                          general meeting of shareholders

                                                                     statutory auditors/
                                   board of directors                                                       accounting auditor
                                                                  board of statutory auditors
                                                       management monitoring
                                                                                                            (internal control)
                                                              president

                                       board of                   management meeting
                                   managing directors
                                                                   division head meeting                        audit office

                                                                                                          internal control office

                                                                                                             corporate staff
                                                           business divisions                                 departments


                                 domestic group company meeting       csr committee
                                 global budget meeting, etc.          compliance committee
                                                                      risk and crisis management committee                hotline
                                                                      environment committee
                                                                      personal information management committee, etc.




corporate governance guidelines
the foster group has established corporate governance guidelines that express our basic way of thinking and framework
with regard to corporate governance. details of these guidelines can be viewed via our website (japanese).
http://www.foster.co.jp/csr/foster_group/pdf/20160401_corporate_governance_guideline.pdf


corporate governance report
this report describes the concept and structure of our corporate governance in accordance with the regulations of the
japanese stock exchange.


foster group corporate action guideline
the foster group has established corporate action guideline that express our actions with public decency in compliance
with laws and regulations inside and outside of japan, international rules, and their spirit and intent as well as corporate
ethics.
■ foster group corporate action guidelines:
  http://www.foster-electric.com/csr/governance/pdf/corporate_action_guideline.pdf



compliance
policies
the group emphasizes compliance (with laws, regulations and corporate ethics) as a core element of its csr philosophy
and promotes a compliance program—setting internal rules and building a structure for management—to all group
companies.


compliance structure
the foster group places emphasis on the internal whistleblowing system to promote compliance. such system is under
operation through the compliance hotline that connects whistleblowers to corporate lawyers or the highly independent
internal audit office to early detect violations of compliance. the whistleblowing hotline is extensively available to
employees and officers of the entire group as well as to their families and the employees of business associates.
for the protection of whistleblowers, internal regulations are established and disseminated to ensure that are treated fairly
or not involved in any trouble as a result of the their act.
another specific effort is to reinforce the development and operation of internal control systems, with a focus on meeting
the internal control requirements of the financial instruments and exchange act, the j-sox requirements, for the reliability
of financial reports. currently, the business operational processes at the group’s headquarters and 11 major business
locations are under supervision for compliance with the j-sox requirements.

                                                                                                                                           20

governance


■ organization of the compliance committee (the same applies to the risk and crisis management committee)
                                                              chief executive (president)

                                                        chairperson (senior managing director)

                                                         vice chairperson (executive officer)

                                         consultation contacts / hotline                    secretariat

                                committee members from the headquarters / committee members from group companies




compliance committee
compliance efforts are led by the compliance committee based on the respective internal regulations.
in fiscal 2016, a compliance test was conducted to help improve awareness of compliance among employees, and in
an initiative led by the compliance committee, an outside expert (lawyer) was invited to lecture to employees with the
objective of making compliance related issues known and ensuring thorough observance.


future plan
the foster group will continue to promote activities such as the enrichment of in-house training and provision of
information on related laws and regulations, which are led by the compliance committee, established based on the
foster group code of conduct for staff, to enhance and improve the compliance structure.


risk management
policies
the risk management activities of the foster group are focused on predicting risks and taking preventive measures so
that such risks will not materialize. they also focus on minimizing damage to the company should a risk develop and
materialize, resulting in the occurrence of danger. specifically, we have established a structure for prompt response in
the event of a crisis and a response structure for any serious risk or incident when it is predicted. meanwhile, we are
strengthening the risk management structure for usual conditions under our basic operation policy of enhancement and
global expansion of risk management ability and crisis responsibility.


risk management structure
as the foundations for the foster group's risk management structure, we have established the rules on risk and crisis
management and the risk and crisis management committee with the president as the chairman to identify risks using
a checklist, analyze such risks and promote preventive measures on a group-wide basis.
in the event of any incidents or accidents, we will set up a task force, mainly consisting of the risk and crisis management
committee members, and take prompt measures to minimize damage, ensuring restoration of the original state as early
as possible and preventing any recurrences.


risk and crisis management committee
as the basic operation policy in fiscal 2016, we promoted the enhancement and global expansion of risk management
ability and crisis responsibility and established a structure for prompt responses in the event of a crisis and a response
structure for any serious risk or incident when it is predicted, and enhanced the risk management system for usual
conditions. specifically, we also held the risk and crisis management committee meeting in fiscal 2016 to review the
measures for the safety of the manufacturing facilities and inspection rooms on a foster group-wide basis. in addition
to those activities, we extracted important items to be monitored in fiscal 2017 at the risk and crisis management
committee, aiming to enhance the risk and crisis management structure.


future plan
we will continue to improve the structure for prompt responses to an accident or incident in the event of its occurrence
and conduct periodic monitoring of important items at the risk and crisis management committee to further enhance
the risk and crisis management structure.


21

                                                                                                                                                                                                              governance



our stance on tax matters
basic stance
the foster group works to maintain and improve tax compliance and perform proper filing and payment of taxes
in accordance with the local tax-related laws and international rules.

dealings between affiliated companies
the foster group determines prices for dealings between its affiliated companies based on the principles of pricing
between independent companies. taxes are paid in a timely and appropriate manner according to the earnings
based on tax laws and agreements in each country.

relationship with tax authorities
the foster group works to reduce tax uncertainty by responding in good faith to prior consultations and related information
disclosure to tax authorities. in addition, it uses the advance pricing agreement (apa) to obtain prior agreement with tax
authorities.


transparency
the foster group prepares and discloses its financial statements in compliance with the financial instruments and
exchange act and related laws. it also discloses tax information in the financial statements based on the related laws and
regulations.
the foster group also understands that the beps(base erosion and profit shifting) project by oecd is essential to
preventing international avoidance of taxes and abusive tax planning and to secure the transparency of taxes through the
disclosure of tax information. as such, it supports the project.



business continuity plan (bcp)
policies
the foster group is taking steps to prevent and avoid various business risks and crises as risk/crisis control and to
minimize the damage to the company and avoid inconvenience to customers should a risk occur or be embodied, with
the highest priority given to preventing the recurrence of risks/crises.
in these activities, the company has developed the “business continuity plan” in order not to suspend important business
operations in the event of disaster and even when operations are suspended, resume them as quickly as possible to
minimize the effects on customers and other stakeholders and enable a smooth response to an emergency.


activity promotion structure
the foster group promotes business continuity through the function recovery activities undertaken by each function
department of headquarters and through collaboration with the task forces at each site in accordance with the decisions
made by the risk and crisis management committee consisting of its senior management.

                                                                                                      chairperson of the risk and
                                                                                                     crisis management committee
                                                                                                               president


                                                                                                       executive chairperson



                                                                                                     vice executive chairperson                         secretariat




           committee members              committee members              committee members               committee members                                                committee members
         from the new business                                                                                                          committee members                                               committee members
                                       from the global corporate          from the corporate          from the quality assurance                                           from the corporate
          development division                                                                                                      from the internal audit office                                     from group companies
                                            support division             management division                   division                                                   planning department




                                                                                                                                        committee members                  committee members
          committee members               committee members               committee members              committee members           from foster micro acoustic       from the corporate information
      from the ma business division   from the sp business division   from the production division          from fostex                      company                       strategy department




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              22

governance


main activities and measures
operation of the emergency-contact network (safety confirmation system)
∙ to keep the headquarters functional, foster group has introduced a safety confirmation system using mobile phones
  that allow headquarters to issue an emergency notice to confirm the safety of its employees and their families when an
  earthquake, disaster, or other emergency occurs.

disaster drills conducted by headquarters and domestic offices
∙ once a year, the foster group conducts disaster drills involving all employees at headquarters and domestic offices.
  at headquarters, the drill was conducted in october 2016. firefighting training was conducted by the fire-extinguishing
  team of the self-defense fire-fighting force on the day.




                     all employees evacuating to the parking lot                                firefighting training
                          next to the headquarters building


∙ the company provides an opportunity to participate in the
  self-defense fire-fighting examination board hosted by the
  relevant fire department to improve the skills of the self-
  defense fire-fighting force members. in past examination
  boards, the team has achieved impressive results, with our
  women’s team winning first prize for instance.



                                                                                    self-defense fire-fighting examination board
disaster drills at overseas sites
the foster group appoints a person in charge of bcp for each overseas
site. in addition, overseas sites conduct disaster drills on a regular basis to
encourage employee awareness of disaster defense.




                                                                                                 chemical substance treatment practice (vietnam)




     firefighting training (vietnam)                           fire drill (china)                      fire drill (south korea)



future plan
the foster group plans to implement the jointly hosted business continuity plan (bcp) drill this term by increasing the level
of disaster drills that have been held at each site in japan and other countries/regions to further strengthen the system.



23

                                                                                                            governance



information security and personal information
protection
policies
the foster group recognizes the importance of securing the trust of its customers, suppliers, shareholders, employees,
and other stakeholders based on its corporate creed “sincerity,” and appropriate management of information assets is
an important part of the management agenda.
to appropriately protect and handle the information assets possessed by the group, we define the information security
policies as follows:
∙ establishment of an information security management system			
∙ development of internal regulations regarding information security		
∙ implementation of information security measures
∙ provision of information security education
∙ implementation of continuous improvement activities


activity promotion structure
for protection and appropriate management of all information assets possessed by the foster group, it has established
the information security committee, which mainly consists of management, to maintain the system for understanding the
management status of information security and prompt implementation of required security measures according to the
risk analysis results.


main activities and measures
the foster group takes security measures as organizational, human, physical, and technical safety management initiatives
to prevent unauthorized access, damage, leakage, falsification and other accidents involving information assets.
in addition, when the group outsources all or part of its business, it implements thorough reviews on the appropriateness
of the outsourcing companies, requests them to maintain the same or higher security level as the group, and works on
periodical reviews of the outsourcing companies and strengthening of the agreements with them.


future plan
∙ enhancement of the infrastructure for information protection and promote implementation on a global basis.
∙ conduct of risk analyses and plan of concrete preventive measures based on the business continuity plans (bcps).
∙ assurance of the awareness on the information security guidelines.

details on our personal information protection can be viewed at our website (japanese):
■ personal information protection:
  http://www.foster.co.jp/privacy/index.html




                                                                                                                      24

governance



responsible procurement
the foster group makes efforts to trade with suppliers that are not only superior in terms of quality, technologies, and
delivery time, but also makes efforts to trade with suppliers that carry out social responsibilities such as csr (green
procurement, human rights, labor, safety, and compliance).
we will continue to build sound relationships with our suppliers through agreement with our csr procurement policies,
deepening of mutual understanding, and sharing of our goals.


basic principles of procurement policy
in its global expansion, the foster group has developed the “basic principles of procurement” for the supply chain,
including the group and its suppliers, based on which it builds fair and healthy relationships.
1. to observe laws, regulations and social norms		             2. fairness and impartiality
3. green procurement					4. confidentiality
5. csr procurement					                                        6. focus on quality, delivery time and stable supply
details can be viewed at our website:
http://www.foster-electric.com/procurement/basic.html


csr procurement
the foster group recognizes that across-the-board csr procurement along its entire supply chain is essential in
developing its global materials procurement activities. to this end, we have established the foster group supplier csr
code of conduct, based on our csr-related regulations and basic principles of procurement. based on this standard,
we distribute csr-related questionnaires to our suppliers, and ask that they cooperate with us on our csr initiatives.
in fiscal 2016, the company conducted a survey on all procurement sites in japan, china, vietnam, indonesia, and
myanmar. many of our suppliers considered csr as a social trend and we received positive replies from 97% of them.
we are now considering the possibility of requesting our suppliers to fill in the “check sheet” to acquire a more detailed
understanding of csr in the future.
details on the “foster group supplier csr code of conduct” can be viewed at our website:
http://www.foster-electric.com/procurement/index.html


response to conflict minerals
in recent years, the illegal mining and smuggling of minerals
by armed forces/groups in the democratic republic of the
congo and its surrounding countries—and the fact that
these activities not only provide a source of funding for
these groups, thereby fueling further conflict, but also lead to
forced labor, human-rights violations and other issues—has
become a major social problem; and it is being demanded
that companies making use of mineral resources should take
responsibility for the problem.
the foster group has established a basic policy on conflict
minerals, and conducts investigations into the production
areas and distribution processes used in relation to minerals
in its supply chain. in fiscal 2016, we achieved a 99%
                                                                                in-house briefing (headquarters)
response rate for investigations into conflict minerals carried
out on a group of 389 suppliers.
going forward, the group will continue to conduct detailed investigations as the refinery certification status changes
(addition and deletion), and to work actively towards ensuring the responsible procurement of minerals.
details can be viewed at our website:
http://www.foster-electric.com/procurement/csr.html




25

                                                                                                                  governance


green procurement
the group has established and revised its “green procurement standard” governing the chemical substances contained
in procured parts and raw materials, and asks our suppliers to provide parts and materials that do not contain harmful
substances, in compliance with various national regulations and the demands of customers. in order to verify that such
substances are not contained in supplied parts and materials, we ask suppliers to submit constituent analysis results and
certificates. the group will continue in its efforts to ensure the procurement of eco-friendly materials.
details on our green procurement can be viewed at our website: http://www.foster-electric.com/procurement/green.html


education
in fiscal 2016, our company held nine study sessions (basic
and advanced) on csr procurement and green procurement
for domestic and overseas sites.
for csr, we held the global csr communication meeting
in penang, malaysia to share the opinions and future policies
of csr procurement among csr-related personnel. for
green procurement, our company is fostering human
resources who can acquire the knowledge needed to reduce
environmental risks and conduct procurement operations in
                                                                         lesson in the global csr communication meeting 2016
a socially responsible way.


global procurement structure
the foster group is promoting the global development of business activities, local procurement, and local production for
local consumption. in doing this, we consider it vital to share a mutual understanding with our suppliers and we therefore
hold procurement, environment, and csr briefings to promote a strong and healthy relationship with them.




        training across sites by using the tv conference system          technological exchange with our suppliers headquarters
                      (headquarters and vietnam)




       social gathering at the procurement briefing 2017 (china)         conference held at the procurement briefing 2017 (china)



future actions (request to fill in the csr self-assessment questionnaire)
we have started requesting our suppliers to check the status of their activities regarding human rights, safety and health,
environment, and ethics.
we analyze and evaluate risks on our suppliers based on the self-assessment results and conduct interviews and/or
audits if necessary.

                                                                                                                              26

society




social

the global corporate support division works with
members from each site to promote not only regional
activities, but also global csr activities, human
resource development and utilization, creation of
work-friendly worksites, as well as health and safety
activities, mainly in the fields of csr promotion,
human resources, and general affairs.



                                                                                                   iwaki tsugane
human rights protection                                                                 deputy head of global corporate support division


policies
in 2003, we established the “foster group corporate action guideline” and the “foster group code of conduct for
staff”, which define our respect for human rights in compliance with all laws and regulations, international rules and their
spirits and concepts. we have also requested our business partners in the value chain to show a similar respect for
human rights.
an outline is provided below.

respect for employees’ humanity
under our labor-management mutual trust and responsibility, we seek to create safe and work-friendly worksites, aiming
to help our employees enjoy comfortable and affluent lives. we also respect our employees' human rights, personalities,
individuality, and abilities. in addition, we do not support any form of forced labor and child labor.

respect for human rights and anti-discrimination
working to maintain healthy worksites at all times, we respect the human rights of each employee and do not conduct
any actions that lead to discrimination.
we do not engage in irrational discrimination based on place of birth, nationality, race, origin, creed, religion, gender, age,
disability of various kinds, hobby, academic background, etc.
we do not conduct any actions that might lead to human rights violations such as violence, ridicule, defamation, slander,
forcible working by threat, or bullying.

sexual harassment
we do not engage in any act of sexual harassment or any act that could be misconstrued by others as sexual harassment.
we do not engage in any sexual speech or acts that are offensive to another person and prevent other persons from
engaging in such acts.

protection of personal information and privacy
with respect to personal information and privacy of foster group directors and staff or for persons outside the company
that become known to foster group directors and staff during the course of work, we only use the personal information
for the work and control it strictly. we control it strictly so that it will not be divulged outside the company.

worksite health and safety
we give priority to the provision of safety and health, endeavor to maintain a safe and healthy workplace environment,
understand the laws and orders concerning work-related safety and health and comply with them. if any work-related
disaster arises under any circumstance, foster group directors and staff strive to carry out the prescribed procedures


27

                                                                                                                        society


such as the creation of an immediate report in order to minimize and prevent the recurrence of such accident in a reliable
manner.

compliance with labor-related laws
we comply with the labor-related laws and endeavor to maintain a comfortable and healthy workplace environment.
in order to ensure that the working conditions stay within the limit set forth in the “labor standards act,” we strictly control
working days and working hours.
we do not force labor that compels excessive work or over-time work and so on.
managers take into consideration the condition of the physical and mental health of subordinates at all times.


activity promotion structure
we have established the csr committee and compliance committee to promote all relevant foster group initiatives. in
addition, we have established the compliance hotline and the sexual harassment helpline as contacts for consultation
and reporting and provide advice to various stakeholders.



diversity and inclusion
policies
the foster group seeks to create the systems and environments that maximize the abilities of a diverse workforce,
regardless of personal attributes such as gender, age, nationality, and background. it aims to encourage a vigorous
approach to work, accommodating needs for a diversity of work styles at each life event, such as raising children and
providing nursing care.
through those activities, we aim to build a “win-win relationship” between the company and its employees and create
synergies with the realization of enjoyable personal lives for each employee, the creation of new value, and improvement
in the company's creativity and competitiveness.


activity promotion structure
we have established the diversity management section as a special organization in the human resources department
and are involved in multifarious activities.


main activities, measures, and development
<supporting employees raising children and providing nursing care>
to promote a working environment where employees who are raising young children can work at ease, we have improved
our system to support the balance between work and child care. in addition to implementing flex-time for employees with
young children, we also formally introduced the work-at-home program in march 2017 to support employees who are
raising children or providing nursing care.
going forward, we will expand work options and provide a place for communications among employees who are working
while providing child care or nursing care, so that they can obtain useful information.

<promoting women's active participation>
by providing female employees with planned cultivation and supporting their career development, we are aiming to have
female managers represent 30% of all managers by the end of march 2021. we will continue to support the continuous
career development of female employees and establish in-house network events such as communication meetings.

<our activities for lgbt (sexual minority)>
currently, the human resources and csr departments are carrying out activities to deepen understanding of lgbt and
increase the number of allies (those who show understanding and support for lgbt people). in the future, we will increase
allies company-wide through activities designed to foster understanding.




                                                                                                                             28

society


<global human resource employment>
the foster group employs a variety of human resources regardless of their nationalities, and is actively promoting
international communications in the group to cultivate human resources and enhance the functionalities.


future plan
∙ female manager rate: to increase the female manager rate to 30% of all the managers.
∙ foreign employee rate at headquarters: to increase the foreign employee rate to 30% of all employees working at
  headquarters.
∙ employment rate of persons with disabilities: to keep the employment rate above the mandatory rate required by law.
∙ displaced worker for nursing care: aim to be zero.




upgrading and expanding our support for trainees and transferred employees from overseas sites
the foster electric accepts many trainees and transferred employees from overseas sites at the headquarters every year. in fiscal 2016,
we accepted 12 trainees and transferred employees from vietnam for periods of 6 to 12 months. in circumstance where many employees
from overseas experience a long stay in japan for the first time, we have prepared the “living and working at foster in tokyo” guidebook to
minimize their concerns about life and work.
this guidebook was prepared mainly at the initiative of vietnamese employee working at headquarters. this guidebook is written in
vietnamese and consists of 14 chapters in 43 pages. it covers a wide range of information from the general information required to stay in
japan, including the way to headquarters after arrival, to information required to work at headquarters. with this guidebook, even employees
visiting japan for the first time can prepare for their stay in japan with confidence.
the guidebook was completed in march this year and distributed from the human resources department at the vietnam site to their local
employees. it is already being used as a guide for visiting japan. we will review the contents on a regular basis to further upgrade and
expand our support for employees from overseas.




                 cover page of the “living and                              guidebook preparation team
             working at foster in tokyo” guidebook


29

                                                                                                                    society



labor (labor practices and decent work)
policies
we put a high value on creating an environment in which each employee can grow through work and display their
capabilities in a rewarding work. to realize this, we believe it is important to create an “work-friendly” environment where
employees with various backgrounds support each other spontaneously through daily communications and give ideas
to each other. under labor-management trust and mutual cooperation, we seek to create an organizational culture and
develop various institutions, aiming to create an environment where employees with various lifestyles and aspirations can
work in the style that suits their situation.


activity promotion structure
in addition to the promotion activities conducted by the diversity management section, we have established the innovative
working style project, which is involved in a wide range of activities with cooperation between labor and management.


main activities, measures, and development
<work-style reforms>
since september 2016, we have started a trial-run diverse working
style project, such as a flex-time system and individual working
shift system, to promote diversity and realize a work-life balance.
we have also shortened the predefined working hours by 15
minutes a day.
since march 2017, as phase 2 of the trial-run diverse working style
project, we have started a trial-run of a new flex-time system and
fully introduced a work-at-home program.
in addition, along with the private-public initiative of the premium
fridays, which is promoted by the ministry of economy, trade and
industry, we have set a premium friday every month and started
activities to encourage employees to leave at 3:00 p.m. or obtain        encouraging employees to go home on premium friday
a paid holiday.                                                                            (headquarters)

<health enhancement>
mental and physical health is essential for employees to feel job satisfaction and work with vigor. we position the
enhancement of employees' health as an important management measure and conducted a trial run of the “health point
system,” in which we give points and provide health incentives to employees depending on their health check results.
this system gave employees an opportunity to review their health check results, which are often forgotten after they have
received.
in january 2017, we issued the “declaration of healthy company” sponsored by the tokyo promotion conference of
heath company declaration. going forward, we will actively promote activities to prevent an increase in the severity of
lifestyle diseases, antismoking measures, mental health measures and other activities.


future plan
∙ to improve the rate of paid holidays taken
∙ to reduce overtime work
∙ to improve the rate of periodic health examinations taken




                                                                                                                         30

society



health and safety
policies
we have established a rule to “prioritize securing of health and safety, and endeavor to create a safe and healthy working
environment.” based on this rule, we are advancing redressing activities, which are carried out mainly by the health and
safety committee, which governs health and safety, and the health and safety management organizations at respective
sites.
abstract from the “code of conduct”
(1) understand laws and orders concerning work-related safety and health and comply with them. and minimize and
    prevent a recurrence of an accident in a reliable manner.
(2) employee exposure to potential safety hazards is to be controlled through the proper design, engineering and
    administrative controls, preventative maintenance and safe work procedures.
(3) procedures and systems are to be in place to prevent, manage, track and report occupational injury and illness.
(4) employee exposure to chemical, biological and physical agents is to be identified, evaluated, and controlled.
(5) employee exposure to the hazards of physically demanding tasks is to be identified, evaluated and controlled
(6) production and other machinery is to be evaluated for safety hazards.
(7) employees are to be provided with ready access to clean toilet facilities, canteen with suitable drinking and eating
    environment.


activity promotion structure
the health and safety activities carried out by the foster group are operated by the health and safety committee at
headquarters in corporation with industrial doctors under the supervision of its upper-level organization, risk and crisis
management committee. by sharing information among the health and safety management organizations at each site,
the group is working as one to create an appropriate working environment.

                                                                                      president


                                                                               risk and crisis management
                                                                                       committee


                                                                                  health and safety
                                                                                                                         industrial doctor
                                                                                    committee




                                                 fire controller                                                                             health and safety
                  outsourced contractor                                           health supervisor         organic solvent manager     management organization
                                          (self-defense fire-fighting force)                                                             at each group company



                     building health        hazardous material                     chief press                 specially controlled
                                                                                                                                        safe driving administrator
                      administrator          safety supervisor                   machine operator           industrial waste manager




main activities
the health and safety initiatives carried out by the foster group are separated into initiatives to address group-wide
issues, which are conducted mainly by the risk and crisis management committee, and initiatives to address site-
specific issues, which are conducted by the health and safety management organization at each site.

we are carrying out initiatives to address the “group-wide issues” based on the foster group corporate action guidelines
and the foster group code of conduct for staff.
in the next fiscal year, we will start initiatives to address issues common to the group by using iso 45001-occupational
health and safety, which will be established as part of the mid-term plan.

the foster group implemented safety inspections of the inspection facilities as an issue common to the group for
preventive maintenance.
the headquarters has developed and promoted the implementation plan of the policy of the health and safety committee,
“prepare for disasters,” as an initiative to address site-specific issues.
particularly in response to the revision of the industrial safety and health act, we launched the chemical substance risk


31

                                                                                                                        society


assessment project in 2015 and have worked to reduce the risks of chemical substances. we will enhance initiatives for
mental health care this year, aiming to create a mentally and physically healthy working environment for our employees
through a stress check system.
in addition, our health and safety committee implemented the 5s inspection at headquarters in cooperation with senior
management and industrial doctors to raise employees' safety awareness in offices, an area that tends to receive less attention.


future plan
we will expand the global industrial health and safety project based on iso 45001-occupational health and safety
management system and share the information.


our activities at overseas sites
we have allocated a health and safety person in charge at each site. each site holds lectures on health and safety (such as
handling of chemical substances) on a regular basis to promote activities for raising employee awareness of health and safety.




                                            lecture on handling of chemical substances (vietnam)




human resource development
policies
our human resource development is based on our policy of “continuously implement development while organically
cooperating with various personnel systems depending on the individual human resource development goals determined
based on the mid- and long-term business strategies and each employee's personality (strength and weakness).”
the ideal for human resource development is as follows:
∙ personnel who embody our business philosophies and corporate creed through their duties and who have a “strong
  will” and “activity” to work toward their realization.
∙ personnel who do not remain complacent about the current situation but utilize every opportunity to improve their own
  abilities and grow with ingenious attempts and efforts.
∙ professional personnel who use their expertise to play a key part in strategy formulation and implementation and who
  can create value continuously.
∙ self-directing personnel who are conscious about their expected and assigned roles and missions and who can take
  responsibility for their own actions and results.


activity promotion structure
those human resource development measures are advanced mainly by the human resources department. in addition,
we have launched the “foster rhythm project,” which introduces our corporate philosophy penetration activities
globally. we are striving to develop human resources who can embody those corporate philosophies and create a lively
organizational environment.



                                                                                                                             32

society


main activities, measures, and development
∙ to promote philosophy-focused management (way management), enhance the power of human resources and
  organization, and transform the organization, the foster group developed the action guidelines by redefining “the ideal
  company.” we summarized those into the “foster rhythm guidebook” and “foster rhythm card” and distributed them
  to our employees across the world. we will also continue to expand awareness raising activities in the future.
∙ we are working to promote diversity and foster and enhance the global mind of our employees by regularly conducting
  “inter-cultural communication training” at various levels.
∙ to ensure that effective human resource development continues globally, we have introduced the online-based “learning
  management system” and the “talent management system” for skills management and the planned development of
  successors.
∙ to promote localization of overseas site management, we have also actively worked on the nurture of the local managing
  staff at each site. specifically, we ran the global leader’s training and facilitated human resources exchange by the
  overseas trainee program and the international employee reassignment within group companies, etc. to develop
  human resources globally.


future plan
∙ further instilling our corporate philosophies (understand -> empathize -> perform)
∙ promotion of use of the learning management system and expansion of its contents
∙ full-scale use of the talent management system and enhancement of the talent management
∙ establishment of global human resource utilization base and development of global leaders



customer satisfaction
foster group sales department
policies
the foster group sales department mainly sells speakers and headphones for cars and audio devices. to realize our
vision “to make contributions for future society through acoustics,” we are working every day to create good sounds that
can impress people across the world through our products and parts. the only thing we must do to achieve this mission is
to “create customers,” as a wise person once said. needless to say, customers can be created by continuously satisfying
someone’s needs. we consider it as the origin and made our primary responsibility “customer satisfaction,” which we
believe is the principle of all our activities.


structure
we have sales offices in japan (headquarters), the u.s., europe, and other asian countries/regions beside japan. this
tetrapolar structure is the base of the framework that enables our flexible responses not only based on the local time,
languages, but also a deep understanding of business customs and cultures. in addition, through personnel interchanges
among regions, we have established a structure to develop global human resources as true cosmopolitans, regardless of
where they were born, and deliver our quality sounds to people all over the world.


activities
the current economies and corporate activities are connected around the world and do not stop. through our tetrapolar
structure described above, we have realized a 24-hour response system globally and are conducting activities to quickly
respond to every customer.




33

                                                                                                                                                                 society


future plan
∙ we provide our products equally in the fields of cars, entertainment, and communications and deliver happiness to
  people around the world through our sounds.
∙ as new markets for cars, entertainments, and communications are growing at an accelerated pace and surrounding
  fields are getting involved accordingly, the markets are being integrated into a comprehensive living field. under these
  circumstances, we provide new products that meet changing needs and deliver greater satisfaction to people around
  the world.


fostex company
policies
the fostex company provides high quality products at appropriate prices to deliver an enriched and comfortable life to
customers who purchase those products. in addition, the company always seeks to develop products that lead to the
peace of mind and satisfaction of the customers who select and own them. in its after-sales services, the company also
pursues customer satisfaction by always promptly providing services from the customers’ perspective.


activity promotion structure
we always listen to our customers’ voices and seek what product they need now to offer products our customers can
use with satisfaction and peace of mind. based on these activities, we have established a project promotion structure
across our sales and technical units. in addition to the domestic market, we also identify needs in each country and region
around the world and strive to develop products specific to each region.


main activities
as domestic activities, we share information with the dealers who are constantly in contact with our customers and
also make efforts to listen to as many customers’ voices as possible at exhibitions and trial listening events. in overseas
markets, we aim to identify the needs of customers from overseas countries/regions through cooperation with our
contracted sales agencies.


future plan
we will continue to supply our trusted original brand, fostex brand products, to introduce our high technical competences
and the high competitiveness of our products. in addition, we will continue to develop products (mainly speaker units,
speaker systems, and head phones) that can deliver greater listening pleasure to our customers through the sound.




  etc audio guidance                        e-call audio guidance                                 alarm buzzer and speaker products for
                                                                                                  accident prevention

                                                               various types of warning sounds/
                                                                      turn signal sounds          our products are incorporated in a variety of devices to issue alarm
approximation notification sounds                                                                 sounds and audio guidance for human safety.
                                                                                                  in automobiles, our products are used to issue alarm sounds for the adas
                                                                                                  (advanced driver assistance system) function supports (automatic
                                                                                                  braking, crash prevention, lane keeping assist, etc.), warning sounds
                                                                                                  when a slide door is opened/closed, and approximation notification
                                                                                                  sounds of hv and ev vehicles.
         ecu warning sounds         opening/closing door warning sounds


                                                                                                  ■ product lineup:
                                                                                                    http://www.foster-electric.com/products/index.html



                                                                                                                                                                       34

society



quality and safety assurance
the foster group is promoting and deploying quality assurance activities based on the foster tqm (total quality
management).


our quality assurance activity policies and actual activities
under our customer-focused philosophy, the foster group considers delivery of safe, eco-friendly, products of reliable
quality by satisfying the customers’ expectations and social requirements as the basics of quality assurance.
in addition, under the basic quality policy, we globally promote comprehensive quality assurance activities to ensure that
our products are of high quality.
the product safety, reliability, and product environmental quality of our products and components are certainly taken
into account during the processes (product/process design, purchase, and manufacturing) supported by our high level
technologies.

        increasing the satisfaction, trust and reliance of customers,                                                   ● our quality assurance activity system (main process) and mechanism
         contributing to the community and society and preserving/
                          protecting the environment                                                                                                               process

                                                                                                                                     market needs, customers’ expectations, requirements
                                                                foster tqm
                                                          (total quality management)
                                                                                                                                                              contract check
                                                                                    quality and environmental policy
                                                                                    tqm regulations/quality
                                                                                    management manual                                              product feasibility review (dr-0)
           continuous improvement (activity)




                                                                    creation
                                                                                    quality system-related rules
                                                                   of system        and/or regulations
                                                                                                                                                     design, prototype production
                                                            product creation
                                                            quality creation
                                                                                                                                      design/prototype validation and review (dv, dr1/2)
                                                              quality to be
                                                          accomplished by the
                                                           across-the-board     human
                                               technology     efforts of the   resources                                           mass-production of prototype, validation, and evaluation
                                                creation       employees      development


                                                 product development technology     development of
                                                                                                                                                         quality certification
                                                 environmental and safety-related   human resources
                                                 technologies
                                                 production technology                                                                   mass-production, product inspection, shipment


                                                                                                                                                           customers, markets
                                                                                                                       note) dr-0: product feasibility review, dv: product design validation, dr1/2: product design review
                                                            basic quality policy



foster tqm and quality management system (qms)*
▲ as for the quality management system of the company, quality assurance and management activities have been developed under its
     customer-focused philosophy on quality since the company’s foundation.
▲ in 1975, we formulated the total quality control (tqc) regulations in accordance with the philosophy of foster total quality control (tqc).
     in may 2006, the tqc regulations were upgraded as the total quality management (tqm) regulations.
▲ since 1998, all the group companies have successfully acquired the certification of the quality assurance (system) standards (including the
     iso9001: 1994).
▲ in 2004, all the group companies successfully acquired the certification of the iso/ts 16949, a quality standard based on the iso9001:
   2000, which has continued to be renewed to date.
* qms: quality management system



global quality assurance structure
the group has developed global quality assurance systems, connecting                                                                                the group guarantees product quality in all
                                                                                                                                                   of the products it supplies worldwide through
the headquarters, overseas factories and sales companies to improve
                                                                                                                                                       its global quality assurance structure
the quality of our products to be supplied worldwide.




35

                                                                                                                   society


maturing quality awareness
our headquarters has made november the “quality month” and holds a variety of events to improve quality awareness.


main events held last fiscal year
■ holding the quality lecture presentation
  the quality lecture presentation was held by inviting outside lecturers. more than 100 employees attended this
  event, which led to an improvement in their quality awareness.




                                             quality lecture presentation (headquarters)


■ encouraging our employees to participate in quality-related forums

■ asking for a quality slogan
  we asked for a quality slogan for each division during the period. they were compiled in a booklet, which is carried with
  all employees at all times.




                                                         quality slogan card
                                     (the photo shows the card for the quality assurance division)

■ holding the global qc circle convention
  at each overseas factory of foster group, through the qc circle activities, opinions from production sites are valued
  and used to improve product quality.
  each year, more than 100 qc circles in total are conducting activities at overseas factories. among them, 12 teams
  that won the qc circle convention at each factory give presentations of their results at headquarters.




                                               qc circle convention (headquarters)


future plan
we will continue to enrich its contents and promote its global extension, aiming to mature our quality-focused corporate
culture.

                                                                                                                        36

environment




environment

in addition to the performance of duties regarding
qms (quality management system)/
ems (environment management system) and
product quality assurance for our customers,
we have overall control of the said functions over
overseas subsidiaries as well.




                                                                                                  ryoji otowa
environmental philosophy                                                         executive officer and head of quality assurance division

and policy
environmental philosophy
in pursuit of eco-friendly technologies and manufacturing, the foster group, respecting nature, contributes to the
realization of an affluent society and an environment where people around the world can fully demonstrate their humanity.


medium-term environmental policy
1. we conserve the global environment by promoting resource and energy saving in product development and design.
     · to set targets with customers and promote reduction of product’s electricity consumption and weight saving.
2. we prevent contamination and reduce co2 emissions in all the phases of business activities including manufacturing
   and disposal.
     ∙ each site to set waste reduction target and execute as action plan.
     ∙ reduction target (annual average): to reduce 1% of co2 emissions per sales unit
       (target for 2020: 7.73% or more reduction from 2012)
     ∙ to create energy saving plan at manufacturing process in order to reduce co2 emission.
     · to grasp clean energy usage rate at each site and promote clean energy utilization.
3. we strive for the continual improvement of environmental performance in compliance with environmental laws and
   regulations and other requirements.
     ∙ to reduce utilization of volatile organic compounds by setting the reduction target in order to satisfy increasing
       customer requirement.
4. we raise the awareness of environmental protection and biodiversity and thereby develop human resources who
   contribute to society.
     · to implement biodiversity protection education to employees and build a base for biodiversity protection activity
       rooted in the area of each site.
     · understanding water risks on a world-wide level, each site to grasp and control their water consumption and
       drainage.
5. we maintain and improve environmental management system and promote external communication.
     · to maintain and improve environmental management system and environmental performance by achieving smooth
       shift to iso14001:2015 at each site.




37

                                                                                                                    environment


environmental management structure
we have established an environment management system at headquarters and overseas manufacturing sites and
embody the foster group’s environment philosophies and mid-term environment policies.
at headquarters, we monitor the activities conducted at each site and check their results.


activities to reduce the environmental burden (headquarters building)
headquarters moved to a new company building in november 2012 and was reborn as an eco-friendly office building
using multifarious technologies to reduce its environmental burden. these technologies include “lighting control using
daytime sunlight,” which effectively brings daytime sunlight into the office, and removing the need for lighting; the “human-
body sensor light control,” which turns lights on and off by sensing people’s movements; “air conditioning using outside
air,” which brings in natural air to optimize the efficiency of air conditioning; an ice thermal storage air conditioning system,*
which enabled a peak cut in the daytime use of electricity; and a double-skin facade, that maximizes heating efficiency.
adopting all these technologies, the efficiency of electricity use has been maximized. in addition, thorough temperature
control through the cool biz and warm biz campaigns further helped control of electricity use, and contributed significantly
to reductions per unit of revenue.
* a system to use the air conditioner during the daytime that cold air is made from the ice produced during the nighttime.




                                        daytime sunlight brought from the top of the staircase
                                          (ceiling at 4th floor of the headquarters building)


management of chemical substances
the group has set forth its autonomous management standard, in which applicable laws, regulations and customers’
requests are reflected, for handling environmentally hazardous substances contained in its products to minimize their
impact on the environment. we eliminate any controlled substances from our products via eco-friendly procurement and
management of necessary parts and/or materials purchased.
based on the aforementioned scheme, we have established an optimum management system for the efficient search and
collection of information about chemical substances that are contained in parts and materials and precise communication
of information necessary in the supply chain. we have taken all possible measures to ensure that we do not miss to cope
with annually added chemical substances that need to be monitored in accordance with the eu’s rohs2.0 directive and
the reach regulations implemented in 2013. in addition, to ensure communications of related information, we provide
our suppliers with briefing meetings every year primarily at our overseas sites. in fiscal 2017, we monitor 41 substances
as controlled substances and banned heavy metals such as lead, cadmium, mercury and hexavalent chromium together
with other highly harmful substances from use so that our products are completely free of these substances.
in compliance with the trend of legal regulations and/or customers’ requests, some of our products are manufactured
without some chemical substances, such as certain phthalate esters which are used as plasticizing agents (referred to as
certain phthalate ester-free manufacture).




                                                                                                                               38

environment


environment management system based on iso14001
since 2000, when head office was certified iso14001, all manufacturing sites worldwide have obtained the iso14001
certification and are making continuous improvements.
in fiscal 2017, head office of foster electric (1-1-109, tsutsujigaoka, akishima city, tokyo, japan) and the miyazawa
office of the fostex company (512, miyazawa-cho akishima city, tokyo, japan), as registered organizations and addresses,
switched to iso14001: 2015. our manufacturing sites overseas are also sequentially switching to version 2015.
in addition, we present the iso14001 certification upon the request of stakeholders.


environmental education
the foster group is continuing its environment management activities,
based on the belief that such activities are vital to survive as a centennial
company. to accompany the switch to the iso14001: 2015, we provided
training on the key points of this revision to our management and all
employees working at headquarters to improve our activities.


                                                                                          training on iso14001: 2015 (headquarters)

our manufacturing sites across the world are
implementing emergency practices on site.




winning the award of “excellence in
environmental empowerment award 2016”                                          practice against leakage at china factory (nanning)

we won the encouragement award at the
excellence in environmental empowerment
award 2016, an initiative hosted by the ministry
of the environment and the environmental
consortium for leadership development
(ecolead) to honor companies that are
developing superior environmental leaders. to
respond to demands in the environment field,
which is expanding with globalization, we are      commendation certificate at the “excellence in    encouragement award ceremony
actively developing environmental leaders who        environmental empowerment award 2016”
will work globally.
■ examination results of the “excellence in environmental empowerment award 2016”:
   http://www.env.go.jp/press/103892.html (japanese)
■ projects won at the “excellence in environmental empowerment award 2016”:
   http://www.eco-lead.jp/commendation/history/winner2016/ (japanese)
■ our projects that won awards:
   http://www.eco-lead.jp/award/2016/practices/2016_foster.pdf (japanese)


zero emissions
at headquarters we are engaged in the recycling of waste, etc.,
(waste that contains recyclable elements) through the sorting
and separation of regular waste, plastics and industrial waste,
together with comprehensive awareness raising activities.
already assembled products and parts are being recycled
into raw materials through a professional recycling business
operator, as part of our continuing activities aiming to achieve
zero waste emissions from our business activities.
                                                                              recycled materials being carried out (headquarters)


39

                                                                                                                             environment


mini-clean activities
as part of our csr activities, we conduct “mini-clean” activities, cleaning the footpaths and sidewalks around our
headquarters, and develop an annual plan, which is to be implemented every month. we also participate in the akishima
cleanup movement, and are powerfully working towards the beautification of our local area.




                          “mini-clean” activities in which all our divisions participate in turn (headquarters)


iwaizumi (carbon offsetting activities)
aiming to become a company trusted by the local community, we are providing
support for global environmental preservation activities through akishima-shi
environment consideration enterprise network. we are also taking part in the
arbor day for future and other activities run by akishima city and the town
of iwaizumi (in iwate prefecture, closed the friendship city agreement with
akishima city) as part of our carbon offset initiatives.




                            participating in the carbon offsetting activity (at iwaizumi in iwate prefecture)


environmental activities at overseas sites
our vietnam factory was commended for the “binh duong green book
2016” by the department of natural resources and environment of binh
duong province as an environmentally friendly company.




                                                                                                       at the awarding ceremony (vietnam)



as one of their environmental activities, the china factory (panyu) has added the carbon filter to the exhaust equipment
to exhaust cleaner air.




                                                          carbon filter being installed to the outdoor exhaust equipment (china)


                                                                                                                                        40

environment


environmentally friendly products
the foster group designs and develops products by taking into account all aspects of product life-cycles; from the
procurement of raw materials to the manufacturing, use, disposal and recycling of its products. we strive to develop and
provide products with the least possible environmental burden, such as through the manufacture of eco-friendly products
that minimize the use of harmful chemical substances, and the creation of lightweight products engineered to reduce
co2 emissions.

lightweight speaker for in-vehicle use, eco-friendly speakers
● we developed a lightweight speaker, optimum for next-generation eco-friendly vehicles such as electric vehicles (evs).
  we reduced the weight of the speaker significantly to 140 grams for a speaker with a diameter of 17 centimeters while
  minimizing the suppression of its sound pressure level, a fundamental performance feature for speakers. its advanced
  design has taken into account the need to reduce overall co2 emissions from vehicles.
● frame is made of a specific polypropylene (pp) material and succeeded in reducing the frame weight while maintaining
  practical strength through profile optimization.
● we have employed adhesives that do not contain harmful solvents and put them to practical use with the aim of
  reducing the volume of voc remaining inside the passenger cabin of vehicles. we are taking steps to eliminate
  solvents in new models.
● the diaphragms and the center caps, made out of recyclable paper with the high waterproofing of speakers required
  for in-vehicle use.
● as one aspect of our environmental activities, we have developed and found practical application for speakers that
  reduce the use of solder. we will disseminate this activity to all group companies and expand in mass production.




                                              lightweight speaker for in-vehicle use


headphones and headsets
for headphones and headsets, we have been active in incorporating environmental considerations in our product and/
or process design. for reducing the substances in our products that burdens the environment, we address the most up-
to-date information regarding country-specific legal requirements and the rohs2 to promote proposals to our customers
and dissemination to all the group companies. we have reduced energy consumption in manufacturing and the volume
of raw materials that would be disposed as wastes. we also have been keen on measures to minimize the volume of
waste materials, reuse raw materials by introducing new equipment and developing products using natural materials
as well as addressing the manufacturing of more eco-friendly products with less use of adhesives and developing a
manufacturing method using less solder.


                                                         measure for solderless production

                                                       by applying resistance welding for
                                                       headphone frame terminals, we achieved
                                                       eco-friendly welding without using solder.

     environmentally friendly headphone and
                    headset




41

                                                                                                           environment


in-vehicle speakers that support reflow soldering sae-20d-30
these products not only achieve reductions in the mounting time required on the customer side when fitting the speakers
by automatic mounting machine, they also enable reductions in the amounts of solder used and waste flux produced,
through the use of paste solder during mounting.
moreover, connections inside the product are achieved without the use of solder, using heat and pressure joining
techniques.
in addition, acoustic-structure design is no longer required because a three dimensional sound emitting hole (duct) is
added on the back of the speakers to separate the sounds from the front and back of the speakers (patent pending).
despite their high acoustic pressure of 800 hz approximately 91 db/10 cm, the speakers are lightweight at 3 g, also
contributing to weight reduction in our customer’s products.
it employs 100% sn-plated phosphor bronze (composed of copper, tin and phosphorus) in their solder-attachment
contacts. residual materials cut out during component processing are all recycled and reused during repeat phosphor
bronze fabrication processing.
■ sae-20d-30 product information:
   http://www.foster-electric.com/products/micro-acoustic-transducers/sae-20.html




compact personal amplifier ap20d
a low power consumption power amplifier that employs a class-d digital amplifier.
this product is equipped with the auto standby function that automatically reduces power consumption after input signals
have been at a certain level or lower for a certain period of time, and allows users to turn on/off the auto standby
function and set the time before this function is enabled.
■ ap20 d product information:
   http://www.fostex.jp/products/ap20d/ (japanese)




                                                                                                                     42

corporate profile and financial information




                group                                                     the group operates 41 bases in 15 countries and regions worldwide as bases for
                companies                                                 development, manufacturing and sales bases.
                                                                          we have established a sophisticated production system integrating processes from
                                                                          components manufacturing to finished goods manufacturing.
                                                      europe
                                                                                                                        japan
                                                      3
                                                                                                                       9
                                                          bases
                                                                                                                           bases




                group                                                     the group operates 41 bases in 15 countries and regions worldwide as bases for
                                                                          development, manufacturing and sales bases.               americas
                companies
                                                                                                                                                                          8
                                                                                               asia (excluding japan)
                                                                          we have established a sophisticated production system integrating processes from
                                                                                                                                          bases
                                                                          components manufacturing tobases  21
                                                                                                            finished goods manufacturing.
                                                      europe
                                                                                                                        japan
                                                      3                                                         sales/development bases                 sales bases                manufacturing bases            others
                                                                                                                       9
                                                          bases

     japan                                                         asia (excluding japan)                                  bases                                                    americas

              company information
      foster electric co., ltd.foster electric co., (hong kong) ltd.                                                        stock information
                                                                                                                      foster electric (vietnam) co., ltd.                              foster electric (u.s.a.), inc.
      (headquarters)
                                                                          guangzhou panyu jiu shui keng                  foster electric (da nang) co., ltd.                             detroit office
         kansai sales office                                              foster electric factory *outsourcee
                   company profile (as of march 31, 2017)                                                                     status
                                                                                                                         foster electricof shares
                                                                                                                                         (quang       co.,of
                                                                                                                                                ngai)(as               2017)
                                                                                                                                                             march 31,el
                                                                                                                                                          ltd.           paso operations
         iga warehouse                                                    foster electric co., (guangzhou) ltd.
              company name                             foster electric company, limited                                           number of shares
                                                                                                                             totalelectric
                                                                                                                         foster               (bac authorized
                                                                                                                                                      ninh) toco.,
                                                                                                                                                               be ltd.                   los angeles officecompanies 2.3%
                                                                                                                                                                                                   securities
         fostex company                                                   foster electric co., (nanning) ltd.               issued by the company:
              founded                                  june 20, 1949                                                                                 domestic            san jose office                   treasury
                                                                                                                                                     corporations, etc.
        foster micro acoustic company               foster electric co., (heyuan) ltd.                               80,000,000 shares                                                                         stock
                               ¥6,770,360,135                                                               estec corporation                        4.7%                boston office                       4.5%
      foster common
              transportations  listed on thefoster
                      stock ltd.                    firstelectric
                                                             section     of(taiwan)
                                                                      co.,    the tokyo
                                                                                     ltd. stock
                                                                                                               estectotal  number of
                                                                                                                      electronics        sharesco., ltd.
                                                                                                                                     (jiaxing)       individuals
                                                                                                                                                                              distribution
                                                                                                                                                                         thomas            of
                                                                                                                                                                                   kl indústria de alto falantes s.a.
                               exchange                                                                                                              and others                                       foreign entities,
      foster electronics ltd.                    foster electric (singapore) pte. ltd.                             issued:                           13.6%                                 by
                                                                                                                                                                             shareholderscorporation               etc.
                                                                                                               estec  vina co., ltd.                                   estec america
                               1-1-109, tsutsujigaoka, akishima city, tokyo, 196-                                                                     americas                                             33.4%
      foster finance co., ltd.                      penang office                                                    26,931,051 shares                                       shareholder type
                               8550, japan                                                                     estec phu tho co., ltd.
                                                                                                                                                                          8
             headquarters                                                                   asia (excluding japan)
      estec japan corporation phone: +81-42-546-2311              (switchboard)                                estecnumber    of shareholders:
                                                    pt foster electric       indonesia
                                                                                                                      electronics    (m) sdn. bhd. financial bases europe
                               fax: +81-42-546-2317
                                                    foster electric ipo (thailand) ltd.
                               476 (total of group companies: 49,194);
                                                                                                            21       6,006
                                                                                                      bases estec corporation (cambodia) ltd.
                                                                                                                                                     institutions
                                                                                                                                                     41.5%             foster electric (europe) gmbh
             number of
                                                    i n c l u delectric
                               to t a l n u m b e r foster                e m p l o yco.,
                                                               e s t h e (thilawa)    e e sltd.
                                                                                             of our                           major shareholders                         munich office
              employees
                                                       outsourcee in panyu, china.
                                                                                                                sales/development bases                 sales bases                   office
                                                                                                                                                                              swedenbases
                                                                                                                                                                        manufacturing    number of
                                                                                                                                                                                                othersratio of
              url                                      http://www.foster-electric.com/                                                                  shareholder’s name              shares held shares held
                                                                                                                                                                                                         (thousand)        (%)

                                                                                                                             japan trustee services bank, ltd. (trust account)                             2,833       11.01
               directors andinformation
              company        statutory auditors (as of june 22, 2017)                                                       stock    information
                                                                                                                               the master trust bank of japan, ltd. (trust account)                        1,680         6.53
                                         hiromi yoshizawa
              president and representative director                   senior officer        terushige nagasawa
                   company profile (as of march 31, 2017)                                                                             of shares
                                                                                                                               statusbank,
                                                                                                                               mizuho      ltd. (as of march 31, 2017)                                     1,016         3.95
              senior managing director   atsushi narikawa             senior officer        takuro yamaguchi
                                                    electric company,
                                           fosterkishi                                                                        total number of shares authorized to be                                  securities companies 2.3%
              company         name kazuhiro
              managing director                                       seniorlimited
                                                                               officer      masatoshi kohama                   the bank of tokyo-mitsubishi ufj, ltd.                                         945        3.67
                                                                                                                            issued by the company:                      domestic
              managing director lujune      san tie20, 1949
              founded                                                                                                                                                                                                    treasury
                                                                      officer               yoichi takahashi                                            corporations, etc. account 9)
                                                                                                                               80,000,000    services bank,
                                                                                                                               japan trustee shares          ltd. (trust                                      764        2.96
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            stock
              director                     ¥6,770,360,135
                                         hidetoshi shirakawa          officer               tatsuhito tanaka                                                            4.7%                                               4.5%
              common          stock        listed     on  the   first    section       of the   tokyo stock                    government
                                                                                                                              total            of norway
                                                                                                                                    number of shares individuals
                                                                                                                                                                    distribution of 699      2.71
              director*1                 minoru matsumoto
                                           exchange                   officer               ryoji otowa                                              and others                         foreign entities,
                                                                                                                            issued:                  13.6%s.a. 380578
                                                                                                                                                                   shareholders by 693
              director  *1
                                         chieko matsudatsutsujigaoka, officer               yasuhide   takahara                j.p. morgan bank luxembourg                                   2.69 etc.
                                           1-1-109,                           akishima city,       tokyo,   196-               26,931,051 shares                                             33.4%
              standing statutory auditor tsutomu
                                                                                                                                                                   shareholder type
                                           8550,inokuma
                                                    japan             officer               naoki kanai                        dfa intl small cap value portfolio                   599      2.32
              headquarters
              statutory auditor       *2   phone:
                                         takuma ino  +81-42-546-2311  officer  (switchboard)yuji harada                       number of shareholders:
                                                                                                                                                                        financial
                                           fax: +81-42-546-2317                                                                state street bank and trust
                                                                                                                               6,006                       omnibus account om25
                                                                                                                                                        institutions                                          457        1.77
              statutory auditor*2 takashi suzuki                      officer               roy ching-sheng chen
                                           476 (total of group companies: 49,194);                                                                                      41.5%
              number        of           yasuhiro                                                                              showa aircraft industry co., ltd.                                              446        1.73
                                                  goto
                                           to t a l n u m b e r i n c l u d e s t h e e m pohl o in-yong
                                      *2
              statutory auditor                                       officer
                                                                                                 yees of our                  major shareholders
              employees
                                                       outsourcee in panyu, china.                                             treasury stock (1,201,261 shares) is excluded for the calculation of the “ratio of
                                                                                                                                                                                              number of     ratio of
              *1 minoru matsumoto http://www.foster-electric.com/
              url                  and chieko matsuda are outside directors.                                                   shares held.”      shareholder’s name                         shares held shares held
                                                                                                                                                                                                         (thousand)        (%)
              *2 takuma ino, takashi suzuki and yasuhiro goto are outside corporate auditors.
                                                                                                                               japan trustee services bank, ltd. (trust account)                           2,833       11.01
                directors and statutory auditors (as of june 22, 2017)
              information for shareholders                                                                                     the master trust bank of japan, ltd. (trust account)                        1,680         6.53
                                             hiromi yoshizawa
              president and representative director                    senior officer     terushige nagasawa
               senioryear
           fiscal                             from narikawa
                       managing director atsushi     april 1 to march 31 of each
                                                                       senior       year
                                                                               officer    takuro yamaguchi                    mizuho
                                                                                                                         inquiries      bank, ltd.
                                                                                                                                   for handling of stocks                                                  1,016         3.95
           ordinary   general                                                                                               shareholders
               managing director kazuhiro
           meeting of shareholders
                                              june ofkishi
                                                       each year       senior officer     masatoshi kohama                       the bankwho            have an
                                                                                                                                                   of tokyo-mitsubishi    theufj,    ltd. company with which
                                                                                                                                                                                securities                     945 you have3.67a
                                                                                                                            account at a securities
               managing director lu             san tie general meeting                                                                                                   business connection
                                              ordinary                    of shareholders:yoichi
                                                                       officer             march takahashi
                                                                                                   31                            japan trustee services bank, ltd. (trust account 9)
                                                                                                                            company                                                                            764         2.96
           record
               director   date               hidetoshi
                                              year-end shirakawa
                                                         dividends: march   31
                                                                       officer            tatsuhito tanaka                  shareholders who have a special account       stock transfer agency department, mizuho trust &
                                              interim dividends: september 30                                                    government
                                                                                                                            *shareholders                      make norway
                                                                                                                                           are not allowed to of      any banking co., ltd.                    699         2.71
               director       *1
                                             minoru matsumoto          officer            ryoji otowa
           number of unit (“tangen”) shares   100                                                                            stock transactions other than the purchase   2-8-4, izumi, suginami-ku, tokyo, 168-8507, japan
               director*1                    chieko matsuda            officer            yasuhide takahara                      j.p.    morgan        bank      luxembourg
                                                                                                                             of shares less than one unit (“tangen”).           s.a.  380578                   693         2.69
                                                                                                                                                                          tel: 0120-288-324 (toll-free telephone service in japan)
                                              stock transfer agency department, head office of mizuho
           transfer   agentstatutory auditor tsutomu
               standing                       trust &inokuma           officer
                                                       banking co., ltd.                  naoki kanai                            dfa intl
                                                                                                                            payment                small
                                                                                                                                           of unpaid             cap value
                                                                                                                                                          dividends
                                                                                                                                                                          head office and branches nationwide of mizuho
                                                                                                                                                                               portfolio                       599         2.32
           transfer agent branch                                                                                                                                          trust & banking co., ltd., and mizuho bank, ltd.
               statutory auditor*2 takuma             yaesu, chuo-ku, officer
                                              1-2-1,ino                tokyo              yuji harada
                                              nihon keizai shimbun (daily newspaper) issued in the                             state street bank and trust omnibus account om25                               457        1.77
           media
               statutory         notice *2 takashi suzuki
                  for public auditor                                   officer            roy ching-sheng chen
                                              metropolis of tokyo
               statutory auditor*2 yasuhiro goto                       officer            oh in-yong                           showa aircraft industry co., ltd.                                              446        1.73
                                                                                                                               treasury stock (1,201,261 shares) is excluded for the calculation of the “ratio of
              *1 minoru matsumoto and chieko matsuda are outside directors.                                                    shares held.”
              *2 takuma ino, takashi suzuki and yasuhiro goto are outside corporate auditors.
   010_0727302982906.indd                   1                                                                                                                                                                           2017/06/29   20:33:10
              information for shareholders
           fiscal year                                from april 1 to march 31 of each year                              inquiries for handling of stocks
43         ordinary general
                                                      june of each year                                                     shareholders who have an
           meeting of shareholders                                                                                                                                         the securities company with which you have a
                                                                                                                            account at a securities
                                                                                                                                                                           business connection
                                                      ordinary general meeting of shareholders: march 31                    company

                                                                                                                                                                                                corporate profile and financial information




          consolidated financial information

            consolidated financial highlights
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (millions of yen)

                                                                                                    81st fiscal year                                          82nd fiscal year                                   83rd fiscal year
                                                                                              (fiscal year ended march 31, 2015)                      (fiscal year ended march 31, 2016)                   (fiscal year ended march 31, 2017)

                                                                                            interim period             full year                  interim period                  full year          interim period                      full year

               net sales                                                                          87,481                 189,124                           96,641                   190,928                    68,342                     160,896

               operating income (loss)                                                              3,852                     9,747                           5,524                  10,351                        182                         2,963

               ordinary income                                                                      4,342                    10,398                           5,927                  10,847                          28                        3,017

               net income (loss) attributable to owners of the parent                               2,285                     4,858                           4,406                    6,833                       227                         1,088

               net income (loss) per share (yen)                                                    97.95                    206.18                        164.71                    255.44                       8.51                         41.16

               net assets                                                                         52,056                     64,944                        68,415                    67,017                    60,913                        63,901

               total assets                                                                     107,264                  104,843                         107,099                     98,735                    97,557                     102,409

               net assets per share (yen)                                                      2,089.51                 2,279.32                        2,404.39                   2,350.26                 2,138.03                      2,316.09

               equity ratio (%)                                                                      45.4                       58.2                             60.1                    63.7                     58.6                            58.2

                                                                                                                                                                                             note: all amounts less than 1 million yen are truncated.



            consolidated financial statements (summary)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (millions of yen)

               consolidated balance sheets                                                        consolidated statements of income                                                    consolidated statements of cash flows

                                              83rd fiscal year 82nd fiscal year                                              83rd fiscal year 82nd fiscal year                                                   83rd fiscal year 82nd fiscal year
                                                                                                                              from april 1, 2016 to    from april 1, 2015 to                                     from april 1, 2016 to    from april 1, 2015 to
                                              as of march 31, 2017   as of march 31, 2016                                        march 31, 2017           march 31, 2016                                            march 31, 2017           march 31, 2016


           assets                                                                               net sales                         160,896                  190,928
                                                                                                                                                                                    operating activities                  4,372                 24,057
           current assets                          69,315                  69,959               cost of sales                     143,527                  163,876
           non-current assets                      33,094                  28,775               gross profit                       17,369                   27,052
                                                                                                selling, general and                                                                investing activities               11,089                      3,946
           total assets                           102,409                  98,735                                                   14,405                   16,701
                                                                                                administrative expenses
           liabilities                                                                          operating income                       2,963                 10,351
           current liabilities                      29,390                 29,111
                                                                                                                                                                                    financing activities                  1,690                    6,676
                                                                                                non-operating income                     750                  1,072
           long-term liabilities                     9,116                  2,605               non-operating expenses                   696                    576                 effect of exchange
           total liabilities                        38,507                 31,717                                                                                                   rate changes on cash                      795                  1,499
                                                                                                ordinary income                        3,017                 10,847                 and cash equivalents
           net assets                                                                           extraordinary income                     736                    719                 net increase
           shareholders’ equity                     58,972                 60,954               extraordinary losses                     354                  1,578
                                                                                                                                                                                    (decrease) in cash and                5,820                 11,934
                                                                                                                                                                                    cash equivalents
           accumulated other                                                                    income before income taxes             3,399                  9,989
           comprehensive income                           620                1,924                                                                                                  cash and cash
                                                                                                total income taxes                     1,818                  2,610                 equivalents, beginning             17,858                      5,924
           non-controlling interests                4,309                   4,138                                                                                                   of period
                                                                                                net income                             1,581                  7,378
           total net assets                        63,901                  67,017                                                                                                   cash and cash
                                                                                                net income attributable
                                                                                                                                       1,088                    6,833               equivalents, end of                12,037                   17,858
           total liabilities and net assets       102,409                  98,735               to owners of the parent                                                             period

                                                                                                                                                                                              note: all amounts less than 1 million yen are truncated.



            overview by segment (consolidation)
           information & communication
           components and products                                                                                                                                             automotive components and
           segment                     45.9 %                                                                                                                                  products segment                                          38.7 %
                                                                     (a 24.6% year-over-                                                                                                                                          (a 4.2% year-over-
             net sales:         ¥73,815 million                      year decrease)
                                                                                                                                                                                net sales:   ¥62,288 million                      year decrease)

           revenue declined as headset                                                                                                                                         despite strong sales of automo-
           sales shrank due to low-                                                                                                                                            tive speakers and speaker sys-
           er-than-expected sales of major                                                                                                                                     tems buoyed by demand in the
           customers’ smartphones, in
           addition to the transition period
                                                                                                                83rd fiscal year                                               north american market, revenue
                                                                                                                                                                               declined due to the strong yen.
           to new models.                                                headsets                                  net sales                                                                                                  automotive speakers



                                                                                                                ¥160,896 million                                               acoustic components and
           other segment                                                        3.6 %                                                                                          products segment                                          11.8 %
                                                                     (a 6.6% year-over-                                                                                                                                           (a 12.5% year-over-
             net sales:         ¥5,762 million                       year decrease)
                                                                                                                                                                                net sales:   ¥19,029 million                      year decrease)

           net sales of this                                                                                                                                                   although sales volumes of flat tv
           segment, includ-                                                                                                                                                    speakers and speaker systems,
           ing micro acoustic                                                                                                                                                  audio speakers and headphones
           components and                                                                                                                                                      were generally in line with our
           “fostex” brand                                                                                                                                                      plan, revenue fell due to the ef-
                                                                      micro acoustic                                                                                                                                                 tv speakers
           products, were                                                                                                                                                      fects of a strong yen.
                                              fostex                   components
           flat year-over-year.
                                              products




010_0727302982906.indd          4                                                                                                                                                                                                               2017/06/29         20:33:15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  44

corporate history




45

corporate history




              46

data table


                                                                                                                       all foster groups
                                                                                                                       foster electric co., ltd. (headquarters)
                                                                                                                       domestic companies: foster electric co., ltd. (headquarters),
                                                                                                                 		 foster transportations ltd.,
                                                                                                                 		 foster electronics ltd.
                                                                                                                       all manufacturing sites
                                                                                                                       all procurement sites
                                                                                                                 no mark indicated locations only

economic data
  g4-ec9
  proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations


                          target                                                            description                                                 rate (%)



     all procuring sites in vietnam                   local procurement ratio of materials at overseas manufacturing sites (vietnam). *1                      33

                                                      local procurement ratio of materials at overseas manufacturing sites (singapore and
     all procuring sites in singapore and indonesia                                                                                                           28
                                                      indonesia). *2

     all procuring sites in china                     local procurement ratio of materials at overseas manufacturing sites (china). *3                        79

  *1 index showing the amount of transaction with asean corporations out of all the procurement transactions.
  *2 index showing the amount of transaction with asean corporations out of all the procurement transactions.
  *3 index showing the amount of transaction with china corporations out of all the procurement transactions.




social data
 g4-la1
  new employee hires/employee turnover

                                                                                        number of new employee hires             number of employee turnover           average
                                      company name
                                                                                        female        male          total       female       male         total         age

                      domestic companies: foster electric co., ltd.
     japan            (headquarters), foster transportations ltd., foster                       9          21            30             6         32           38             44
                      electronics ltd.

     overseas         all overseas companies                                              33,987        3,999       37,986        36,927      3,736       40,663              30



● g4-la3
  childcare leave
                                                                                          total number of employees             total number of employees who           total number of employees
                                                                                                   entitled                              took the leave                          retained
                                      company name
                                                                                        female        male          total       female       male         total        female      male       total

                      domestic companies: foster electric co., ltd.
     japan            (headquarters), foster transportations ltd., foster                       6          21            27             6           2              8           6          2           8
                      electronics ltd.

     overseas         all overseas companies                                               4,120          347        4,467         4,082        337        4,419         3,062       340       3,402



 g4-la5
  percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees


                                      company name                                      rate (%)


                      domestic companies: foster electric co., ltd.
     japan            (headquarters), foster transportations ltd., foster                    100
                      electronics ltd.

     overseas         all overseas companies                                                 100



 g4-la6
  industrial accidents

                                                                                                     number       number
                                                                                       number                                   frequency   severity
                                      company name                                                   of absent       of
                                                                                       of injuries                                 rate      rate
                                                                                                        days      fatalities

                      domestic companies: foster electric co., ltd.
     japan            (headquarters), foster transportations ltd., foster                       2          42               0      1.437      0.030
                      electronics ltd.

     overseas         all overseas companies                                                 195        1,658               0      1.256      0.011




47

                                                                                                                                                                data table


 g4-la8
  percentage of health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions


                                   company name                                    rate (%)


                    guangzhou panyu jiu shui keng foster electric
                                                                                            -
                    factory (*outsourcee)
                    foster electric co., (nanning) ltd.                                     -
                    foster electric co., (heyuan）ltd.                                       -
                    pt foster electric indonesia                                           16

   asia             foster electric (thilawa) co., ltd.                                     -
                    foster electric (vietnam) co., ltd.                                     6
                    foster electric (da nang) co., ltd.                                     6
                    foster electric (quang ngai) co., ltd.                                  6
                    foster electric (bac ninh) co., ltd.                                    6
                    estec corporation                                                       9
  health and safety topics covered in collective agreements with trade unions.


 g4-la9
  training hours (training hours per employee)


                                   company name                                       average hours


                    domestic companies: foster electric co., ltd.
   japan            (headquarters), foster transportations ltd., foster              20 h 10 minutes
                    electronics ltd.

   overseas         all overseas companies                                           11 h 42 minutes



 g4-la11
  percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews
                                                                                                rate (%)
                                   company name
                                                                                    femal        male       total

                    domestic companies: foster electric co., ltd.
   japan            (headquarters), foster transportations ltd., foster                   100       100        100
                    electronics ltd.

   overseas         all overseas companies                                                 20         51         23



 g4-la12
  age group
                                                                                                rate (%)

                                   company name                                       less
                                                                                                 30-50     over 50
                                                                                    than 30
                                                                                                year old   year old
                                                                                    year old
                    domestic companies: foster electric co., ltd.
   japan            (headquarters), foster transportations ltd., foster                    13         51         36
                    electronics ltd.

   overseas         all overseas companies                                                 54         46            0



 g4-la13
  ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men


                                   company name                                    rate (%)


                    domestic companies: foster electric co., ltd.
   japan            (headquarters), foster transportations ltd., foster                   100
                    electronics ltd.


 g4-la14/g4-hr10/g4-so9
  supplier screening


                                   company name                                    rate (%)


   domestic
   and overseas     all procuring sites                                                    97
   companies
  percentage of suppliers who have procurement contract with foster groups and agreed to “foster group supplier csr code of conduct” by the end of december, 2016.




                                                                                                                                                                       48

data table


 g4-50/g4-la16
  number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms.


                                     company name                                             number


                     domestic companies: foster electric co., ltd.
     japan           (headquarters), foster transportations ltd., foster                              0
                     electronics ltd.


 g4-50/g4-hr2
  human rights trainings

                                                                                                    rate (%)
                                     company name
                                                                                              female       male

                     domestic companies: foster electric co., ltd.
     japan           (headquarters), foster transportations ltd., foster                              4         21
                     electronics ltd.

     overseas        all overseas companies                                                         89          77



 g4-hr7
  human rights trainings for security personnel

                                                                                                security personnel (internal)       security personnel (outsourcing)

                                     company name                                             number      number                    number      number
                                                                                                 of          of          (%)           of          of        (%)
                                                                                              employees   students                  employees   students
                     domestic companies: foster electric co., ltd.
     japan           (headquarters), foster transportations ltd., foster                              0           0             0           3          3        100
                     electronics ltd.

     overseas        all overseas companies                                                        319         318             93        265        263            99



 g4-hr11
  impact assessment on human rights


                                     company name                                             ratio (%)



     overseas        all overseas companies                                                         99

  collection ratio of supplier questionnaire for conflict mineral due diligence activities.


 g4-50/g4-hr12
  numer of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms


                                     company name                                             number


                     domestic companies: foster electric co., ltd.
     japan           (headquarters), foster transportations ltd., foster                              8
                     electronics ltd.


 g4-50/g4-so11
  number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms


                                     company name                                             number


                     domestic companies: foster electric co., ltd.
     japan           (headquarters), foster transportations ltd., foster                              2
                     electronics ltd.




49

                                                                                                                                                              data table


environmental data
 g4-en3
 engergy consumption

                                                             purchased                                        type-c
                                                                             gasoline       diesel oil                         lpg           natural gas        city gas
                            company name                     electricity                                     heavy oil
                                                                              (liter)         (liter)                          (kg)             (m3)              (m3)
                                                               (mwh)                                           (liter)

  japan           foster electric co., ltd. (headquarters)         2,078        12,650                   0                0              0               0         12,656

                  guangzhou panyu jiu shui keng foster
                                                                  48,406        93,563            22,071                  0              0         88,853                  0
                  electric factory (*outsourcee)

                  foster electric co., (nanning) ltd.             13,745        72,736            16,545                  0              0               0                 0
                  foster electric co., (heyuan) ltd.              18,930        55,817            26,717                  0              0         78,937                  0
                  foster electric (vietnam) co., ltd.             27,907        33,047             1,520                  0     150,161                  0                 0
  asia
                  foster electric (da nang) co., ltd.             10,267        22,836             4,708                  0      59,270                  0                 0
                  foster electric (quang ngai) co., ltd.           3,863          4,194                  0                0      29,716                  0                 0
                  foster electric (bac ninh) co., ltd.            16,996        36,377             7,204                  0      44,826                  0                 0
                  pt foster electric indonesia                     7,601          4,860           13,748            240          24,192                  0                 0
                  foster electric (thilawa) co., ltd.              2,184        10,144            22,152                  0              0               0                 0

                  foster electric (u.s.a.), inc. (el paso
  north america                                                      468          1,330                  0                0              0               0         52,770
                  operations)

                                 total                          152,444        347,554         114,665              240         308,164          167,790           65,426


 g4-en8
 water comsumption

                                                                water
                            company name                     consumption
                                                              (unit: m3)

  japan           foster electric co., ltd. (headquarters)        10,656

                  guangzhou panyu jiu shui keng foster
                                                                823,259
                  electric factory (*outsourcee)

                  foster electric co., (nanning) ltd.           144,350
                  foster electric co., (heyuan) ltd.            342,177
                  foster electric (vietnam) co., ltd.           378,002
  asia
                  foster electric (da nang) co., ltd.           115,391
                  foster electric (quang ngai) co., ltd.          76,127
                  foster electric (bac ninh) co., ltd.            73,443
                  pt foster electric indonesia                    24,477
                  foster electric (thilawa) co., ltd.             37,649

                  foster electric (u.s.a.), inc. (el paso
  north america                                                    2,111
                  operations)

                                 total                         2,027,642


 g4-en23
 weight of disposed waste

                                                                    hazardous waste (unit: ton)                  non-hazardous waste (unit: ton)
                            company name
                                                               waste                                           waste
                                                                             recycled     final disposal                      recycled       final disposal
                                                             generation                                      generation

  japan           foster electric co., ltd. (headquarters)          0.46           0.00             0.46         124.85           84.00             40.85

                  guangzhou panyu jiu shui keng foster
                                                                  238.59        238.59              0.00       1,531.87            0.00          1,531.87
                  electric factory (*outsourcee)

                  foster electric co., (nanning) ltd.              31.20          31.20             0.00         269.80          155.50            114.30
                  foster electric co., (heyuan) ltd.               56.47          56.47             0.00         559.60          559.60               0.00
                  foster electric (vietnam) co., ltd.             218.03        186.11             31.91       2,248.68          782.74          1,465.94
  asia
                  foster electric (da nang) co., ltd.             123.00        118.50              4.50         820.70          261.50            559.20
                  foster electric (quang ngai) co., ltd.           24.10          23.88             0.22         254.22          103.55            150.67
                  foster electric (bac ninh) co., ltd.             82.07          18.11            63.96         603.80          221.00            382.80
                  pt foster electric indonesia                    123.83          82.23            41.60         433.84          151.80            282.04
                  foster electric (thilawa) co., ltd.               2.37           2.37             0.00          25.77           21.82               3.95

                  foster electric (u.s.a.), inc. (el paso
  north america                                                     0.04           0.04             0.00         869.00          126.00            743.00
                  operations)

                                 total                            900.15        757.50            142.65       7,742.13        2,467.51          5,274.62




                                                                                                                                                                           50

data table


  g4-en15/g4-en16/g4-en18/g4-en19
  co2 emission


                                                      index                                                            2012           2013            2014             2015         2016


     scope 1
                                                                              (unit: t-co2)                               2,198          2,403             2,431         2,155        2,549
     (direct greenhouse gas emission from business activities）
     scope 2
     (indirect greenhouse gas emission due to energy usage in business        (unit: t-co2)                              87,178         91,547            88,568        86,668       88,222
     activities）

     scope 1+2 total                                                          (unit: t-co2)                          89,375.88       93,950.15      90,998.80         88,823.10    90,771.67


     unit of net sales                                                        (unit: t-co2/100 million yen)                 62.3           56.6             48.1           46.5         56.4

     scope
       foster electric co., ltd. (headquarters) and 10 overseas manufacturing sites as in en23)
     co2 conversion factor (electric)
       japan: ministry of environment, 2012 factor based on co2 conversion factor of electric power supplier (2013)
       overseas: iea, 2012 factor based on co2 emissions from fuel combustion (2014)
     co2 conversion factor (fuel)
       japan/overseas: factor based on the “greenhouse gas emissions calculation and report manual” released by the ministry of environment, ministry of economy, trade and industry.
     global warming potential
       incorporated 100 year value of ipcc second assessment report (ar2)




 g4-en31
  environmental preservation cost (classification through business operations）

                                                                                  environmental preservation cost (classification according to business activities）
                    company name
                                                                               category                                    key activity and the outcome            invesment        cost

                                                  (1) business area cost                                                                                                       0      11,570
                                                                                   (1)-1 pollution prevention       air and water control-related prevention
                                                                                                                                                                               0           545
                                                                                   costs                            countermeasures
                                                                                   (1)-2 global environmental       prevention of global warming, as well as
                                                  breakdown                                                                                                                    0       1,258
                                                                                   conservation costs               energy-saving measures
                                                                                   (1)-3 resource circulation
                                                                                                                    waste disposal and recycling                               0       9,767
                                                                                   costs
                  foster electric co., ltd.       (2) upstream/downstream
     japan                                                                         green purchasing expenses                                                                   0             0
                  (headquarters)                  cost
                                                                                   environmental education, ems
                                                  (3) administration costs                                                                                                     0       8,900
                                                                                   contruction expenses etc.
                                                  (4) r&d costs                    research and development                                                                    0   1,604,629
                                                  (5) social activity costs                                         tree planting                                              0           877
                                                  (6) environmental damage handling costs                                                                                      0            0
                                                                                                        total                                                                  0   1,625,975
 * unit (one thousand yen)
 * “investment” refers to equipment investments for the purpose of environmental conservation. “cost” refers to personnel and miscellaneous expenses/costs incurred for
   environmental conservation activities.


 g4-en32
  supplier screening


                                                      target                                                         rate (%)



     domestic and overseas companies              all procuring sites                                                      97

  percentage of suppliers who have procurement contract with foster groups and agreed to “foster group supplier csr code of conduct” by the end of december, 2016.




51

                                                                                                                       data table


gri guideline (g4) table
general standard
                                                 gri                                          this report or corporate site
  disclosures

strategy and               a. provide a statement from the most senior decision-
analysis                      maker of the organization (such as ceo, chair, or
                   g4-1       equivalent senior position) about the relevance of            p3~4     top message
                              sustainability to the organization and the organization’s
                              strategy for addressing sustainability.
                           a. provide a description of key impacts, risks, and              p3~4     top message
                   g4-2
                              opportunities.                                                  -       securities report (japanese)
organizational                                                                              p43~44   company profile/financial results
                   g4-3    a. report the name of the organization.
profile                                                                                        -      securities report (japanese)
                                                                                            p43~44   company profile/financial results
                   g4-4    a. report the primary brands, products, and services.
                                                                                               -      securities report (japanese)
                                                                                            p43~44   company profile/financial results
                   g4-5    a. report the location of the organization’s headquarters.
                                                                                               -      securities report (japanese)
                           a. report the number of countries where the organization
                              operates, and names of countries where either
                                                                                            p43~44   company profile/financial results
                   g4-6       theorganization has significant operations or that are
                                                                                               -      securities report (japanese)
                              specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered
                              in the report.
                                                                                            p43~44   company profile/financial results
                   g4-7    a. report the nature of ownership and legal form.
                                                                                               -      securities report (japanese)
                           a. report the markets served (including geographic
                                                                                            p43~44   company profile/financial results
                   g4-8       breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers
                                                                                               -      securities report (japanese)
                              and beneficiaries).
                           a. report the scale of the organization, including:
                            • total number of employees
                            • total number of operations
                            • net sales (for private sector organizations) or net           p43~44   company profile/financial results
                   g4-9
                              revenues (for public sector organizations)                       -      securities report (japanese)
                            • total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and
                              equity (for private sector organizations)
                            • quantity of products or services provided
                           a. report the total number of employees by employment contract
                              and gender.
                           b. report the total number of permanent employees by
                              employment type and gender.
                           c. report the total workforce by employees and
                              supervised workers and by gender.
                           d. report the total workforce by region and gender.
                                                                                            p43~44   company profile/financial results
                   g4-10   e. report whether a substantial portion of the
                                                                                               -      securities report (japanese)
                              organization’s work is performed by workers who are
                              legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals
                              other than employees or supervised workers, including
                              employees and supervised employees of contractors.
                           f. report any significant variations in employment
                              numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in
                              the tourism or agricultural industries).
                           a. report the percentage of total employees covered by
                   g4-11                                                                      -       securities report (japanese)
                              collective bargaining agreements.
                   g4-12   a. describe the organization’s supply chain.                       -       securities report (japanese)
                           a. report any significant changes during the
                              reporting period regarding the organization’s size,
                              structure,ownership, or its supply chain, including:
                            • changes in the location of, or changes in, operations,
                   g4-13      including facility openings, closings, and expansions           -       securities report (japanese)
                            • changes in the share capital structure and other capital
                              formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for
                              private sector organizations) including selection and
                              termination




                                                                                                                                   52

data table




 general standard
                                                    gri                                          this report or corporate site
   disclosures

organizational                                                                                 p19~26   governance
profile                       a. report whether and how the precautionary approach or          p27~36   social
                      g4-14
                                 principle is addressed by the organization.                   p37~42   environment
                                                                                                  -      securities report (japanese)
                              a. list externally developed economic, environmental and         p7-16    foster group csr
                      g4-15      social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which             management
                                 the organization subscribes or which it endorses.             p17-18   un global compact (cop)
                              a. list memberships of associations (such as industry
                                 associations) and national or international advocacy
                                 organizations in which the organization:
                               • holds a position on the governance body
                      g4-16    • participates in projects or committees                        p17-18   un global compact (cop)
                               • provides substantive funding beyond routine
                                 membership dues
                               • views membership as strategic this refers primarily to
                                 memberships maintained at the organizational level.
identified material           a. list all entities included in the organization’s
aspects and                      consolidated financial statements or equivalent
boundaries                       documents.
                              b. report whether any entity included in the organization’s
                                 consolidated financial statements or equivalent               p43-44   company profile/financial results
                      g4-17
                                 documents is not covered by the report. the                     -       securities report (japanese)
                                 organization can report on this standard disclosure
                                 by referencing the information in publicly available
                                 consolidated financial statements or equivalent
                                 documents
                              a. explain the process for defining the report content and
                                 the aspect boundaries.                                        p7-16    foster group csr
                      g4-18
                              b. explain how the organization has implemented the                       management
                                 reporting principles for defining report content.

                              a. list all the material aspects identified in the process for   p7-16    foster group csr
                      g4-19
                                 defining report content.                                               management

                              a. for each material aspect, report the aspect boundary
                                 within the organization, as follows:
                               • report whether the aspect is material within the
                                 organization
                               • if the aspect is not material for all entities within the
                                 organization (as described in g4-17), select one of the       p7-16    foster group csr
                      g4-20      following two approaches and report either:                            management
                                  – the list of entities or groups of entities included in       -       securities report (japanese)
                                     g4-17 for which the aspect is not material or
                                  – the list of entities or groups of entities included in
                                     g4-17 for which the aspects is material
                               • report any specific limitation regarding the aspect
                                 boundary outside the organization
                              a. for each material aspect, report the aspect boundary
                                 outside the organization, as follows:
                               • report whether the aspect is material outside of the
                                 organization                                                  p19-26   governance
                               • if the aspect is material outside of the organization,        p27-36   social
                      g4-21      identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for     p37-42   environment
                                 which the aspect is material. in addition, describe the       p43-44   company profile/financial results
                                 geographical location where the aspect is material for          -       securities report (japanese)
                                 the entities identified
                               • report any specific limitation regarding the aspect
                                 boundary outside the organization




53

                                                                                                                       data table




general standard
                                                    gri                                        this report or corporate site
  disclosures

identified material           a. report the effect of any restatements of information
aspects and           g4-22      provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such         -      no restatements
boundaries                       restatements.
                              a. report significant changes from previous reporting
                      g4-23                                                                     -      no significant changes
                                 periods in the scope and aspect boundaries.
stakeholder                                                                                             general meeting of
engagement                    a. provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the                     shareholders
                      g4-24                                                                     -
                                 organization.                                                          financial result briefing
                                                                                                       procurement briefing
                              a. report the basis for identification and selection of
                      g4-25                                                                   p19-26   governance
                                 stakeholders with whom to engage.
                              a. report the organization’s approach to stakeholder
                                 engagement, including frequency of engagement by type        p7-16    foster group csr
                      g4-26      and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any            management
                                 of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of     p19-26   governance
                                 the report preparation process.
                              a. report key topics and concerns that have been
                                 raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the
                                 organization has responded to those key topics and
                      g4-27                                                                     -      none
                                 concerns, including through its reporting. report the
                                 stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics
                                 and concerns.
report profile                a. reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for
                      g4-28                                                                   p47-62   data
                                 information provided.
                      g4-29   a. date of most recent previous report (if any).                p47-62   data
                      g4-30   a. reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial).                  p47-62   data
                              a. provide the contact point for questions regarding the
                      g4-31                                                                   p47-62   data
                                 report or its contents.
                              a. report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has
                                 chosen.
                              b. report the gri content index for the chosen option
                                 (see tables below).
                      g4-32                                                                   p47-62   data
                              c. report the reference to the external assurance
                                 report, if the report has been externally assured. gri
                                 recommends the use of external assurance but it is not
                                 a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the guidelines.
                              a. report the organization’s policy and current practice
                                 with regard to seeking external assurance for the report.
                              b. if not included in the assurance report accompanying
                                 the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of
                                 any external assurance provided.
                      g4-33                                                                     -      none
                              c. report the relationship between the organization and
                                 the assurance providers.
                              d. report whether the highest governance body or senior
                                 executives are involved in seeking assurance for the
                                 organization’s sustainability report.
governance                    a. report the governance structure of the organization,
                                 including committees of the highest governance body.                   corporate governance
                      g4-34                                                                     -
                                 identify any committees responsible for decision-making                 guideline (japanese)
                                 on economic, environmental and social impacts.
                              a. report the process for delegating authority for
                                                                                              p19-26   governance
                                 economic, environmental and social topics from the
                      g4-35                                                                     -       corporate governance
                                 highest governance body to senior executives and other
                                                                                                         guideline (japanese)
                                 employees.
                              a. report whether the organization has appointed an
                                 executive-level position or positions with responsibility
                                                                                              p7-16    foster group csr
                      g4-36      for economic, environmental and social topics, and
                                                                                                       management
                                 whether post holders report directly to the highest
                                 governance body.




                                                                                                                                 54

data table




 general standard
                                                  gri                                       this report or corporate site
   disclosures

governance                  a. report processes for consultation between
                               stakeholders and the highest governance body
                                                                                           p7-16   foster group csr
                    g4-37      on economic, environmental and social topics. if
                                                                                                   management
                               consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any
                               feedback processes to the highest governance body.
                            a. report the composition of the highest governance body
                               and its committees by:
                             • executive or non-executive
                             • independence
                             • tenure on the governance body                                 -      consolidated financial
                             • number of each individual’s other significant positions               results
                    g4-38
                               and commitments, and the nature of the commitments            -      corporate governance
                             • gender                                                                guideline (japanese)
                             • membership of under-represented social groups
                             • competences relating to economic, environmental and
                               social impacts
                             • stakeholder representation
                            a. report whether the chair of the highest governance
                               body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or her     -      securities report
                    g4-39
                               function within the organization’s management and the                 (japanese)
                               reasons for this arrangement).
                            a. report the nomination and selection processes for
                               the highest governance body and its committees, and
                               the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest
                               governance body members, including:
                             • whether and how diversity is considered
                                                                                             -      corporate governance
                    g4-40    • whether and how independence is considered
                                                                                                     guideline (japanese)
                             • whether and how expertise and experience relating
                                to economic, environmental and social topics are
                                considered
                             • whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders)
                                are involved
                            a. report processes for the highest governance body to
                               ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed.
                               report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to
                               stakeholders, including, as a minimum:
                                                                                             -      corporate governance
                    g4-41    • cross-board membership
                                                                                                     guideline (japanese)
                             • cross-shareholding with suppliers and other
                               stakeholders
                             • existence of controlling shareholder
                             • related party disclosures
                            a. report the highest governance body’s and senior
                               executives’ roles in the development, approval, and
                                                                                           p7-16   foster group csr
                    g4-42      updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission
                                                                                                   management
                               statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to
                               economic, environmental and social impacts.
                            a. report the measures taken to develop and enhance
                                                                                           p7-16   foster group csr
                    g4-43      the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of
                                                                                                   management
                               economic, environmental and social topics.




55

                                                                                                                  data table




general standard
                                                 gri                                        this report or corporate site
  disclosures

governance                 a. report the processes for evaluation of the highest
                              governance body’s performance with respect to
                              governance of economic, environmental and social
                              topics. report whether such evaluation is independent
                              or not, and its frequency. report whether such               p19-26   governance
                   g4-44      evaluation is a self-assessment.                             p27-36   social
                           b. report actions taken in response to evaluation of            p37-42   environment
                              the highest governance body’s performance with
                              respect to governance of economic, environmental
                              and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in
                              membership and organizational practice.
                           a. report the highest governance body’s role in
                              the identification and management of economic,
                              environmental and social impacts, risks, and
                              opportunities. include the highest governance body’s
                                                                                           p7-16    foster group csr
                   g4-45      role in the implementation of due diligence processes.
                                                                                                    management
                           b. report whether stakeholder consultation is used to
                              support the highest governance body’s identification
                              and management of economic, environmental and
                              social impacts, risks, and opportunities.
                           a. report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing
                                                                                           p7-16    foster group csr
                   g4-46      the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management
                                                                                                    management
                              processes for economic, environmental and social topics.
                           a. report the frequency of the highest governance body’s
                                                                                           p7-16    foster group csr
                   g4-47      review of economic, environmental and social impacts,
                                                                                                    management
                              risks, and opportunities.
                           a. report the highest committee or position that formally
                                                                                           p7-16    foster group csr
                   g4-48      reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability
                                                                                                    management
                              report and ensures that all material aspects are covered.
                           a. report the process for communicating critical concerns
                   g4-49                                                                   p19-26   governance
                              to the highest governance body.
                           a. report the nature and total number of critical concerns
                              that were communicated to the highest governance             p19-26   goverance
                   g4-50
                              body and the mechanism(s) used to address and                p47-62   data
                              resolve them.
                           a. report the remuneration policies for the highest
                              governance body and senior executives for the below
                              types of remuneration:
                            • fixed pay and variable pay:
                               – performance-based pay
                               – equity-based pay
                               – bonuses
                               – deferred or vested shares
                            • sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments
                                                                                             -       corporate governance
                   g4-51    • termination payments
                                                                                                      guideline (japanese)
                            • clawbacks
                            • retirement benefits, including the difference between
                              benefit schemes and contribution rates for the highest
                              governance body, senior executives, and all other
                              employees
                           b. report how performance criteria in the remuneration
                              policy relate to the highest governance body’s and
                              senior executives’ economic, environmental and social
                              objectives.
                           a. report the process for determining remuneration.
                              report whether remuneration consultants are involved
                              in determining remuneration and whether they are
                   g4-52                                                                     -      none
                              independent of management. report any other
                              relationships which the remuneration consultants have with
                              the organization.




                                                                                                                             56

data table




 general standard
                                                     gri                                         this report or corporate site
   disclosures

governance                      a. report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken
                                   into account regarding remuneration, including the
                       g4-53                                                                      -      none
                                   results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals,
                                   if applicable.
                                a. report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the
                                   organization’s highest-paid individual in each country
                       g4-54       of significant operations to the median annual total           -      none
                                   compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-
                                   paid individual) in the same country.
                                a. report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total
                                   compensation for the organization’s highest-paid
                                   individual in each country of significant operations
                       g4-55                                                                      -      none
                                   to the median percentage increase in annual total
                                   compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-
                                   paid individual) in the same country.
ethics and integrity                                                                             p1-2    corporate philosophy
                                a. describe the organization’s values, principles, standards
                       g4-56                                                                      -        corporate action guideline
                                   and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct
                                                                                                  -        code of conduct for staff
                                a. report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking
                                   advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related
                       g4-57                                                                    p19-26   governance
                                   to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice
                                   lines.
                                a. report the internal and external mechanisms for
                                   reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior,
                       g4-58       and matters related to organizational integrity, such as     p19-26   governance
                                   escalation through line management, whistleblowing
                                   mechanisms or hotlines.



       economic                                      gri                                          this report or corporate site

economic dma                                                                                     p3-4    top message
economic               g4-ec1   direct economic value generated and distributed.                  -      none
performance
                                financial implications and other risks and opportunities for
                       g4-ec2                                                                     -      none
                                the organization's activities due to climate change.
                                coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan
                       g4-ec3                                                                     -      none
                                obligations.
                       g4-ec4   financial assistance received from government.                    -      none
market presence                 ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared
                       g4-ec5   to local minimum wage at significant locations of                 -      none
                                operation.
                                proportion of senior management hired from the local
                       g4-ec6                                                                     -      none
                                community at significant locations of operation.
indirect economic               development and impact of infrastructure investments and
                       g4-ec7                                                                     -      none
impacts                         services supported.
                                significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent
                       g4-ec8                                                                     -      none
                                of impacts.
procurement                     proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant
                       g4-ec9                                                                   p47-62   data
practices                       locations of operation.



     environmental                                   gri                                          this report or corporate site

                                                                                                 p3-4    top message
environmental dma
                                                                                                p37-42   environment
materials              g4-en1   materials used by weight or volume.                             p37-42   environment
                                percentage of materials used that are recycled input
                       g4-en2                                                                   p37-42   environment
                                materials.
energy                 g4-en3   energy consumption within the organization.                     p47-62   data


57

                                                                                                                   data table




  environmental                                   gri                                        this report or corporate site

energy                                                                                     p7-16    foster group csr
                  g4-en4    energy consumption ouside of the organization.
                                                                                                    management
                  g4-en5    energy intensity.                                              p47-62   data
                  g4-en6    reduction of energy consumption.                               p47-62   data
                            reductions in energy requirements of products and
                  g4-en7                                                                   p37-42   environment
                            services.
water             g4-en8    total water withdrawal by source.                              p47-62   data
                  g4-en9    water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water.   p37-42   environment
                            percentage and total volume of water recycled and
                  g4-en10                                                                  p37-42   environment
                            reused.
biodiversity                operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent
                  g4-en11   to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value         -      none
                            outside protected areas.
                            description of significant impacts of activities, products,
                  g4-en12   and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas        -      none
                            of high biodiversity value outside protected areas.
                  g4-en13   habitats protected or restored.                                p37-42   environment
                            total number of iucn red list species and national
                  g4-en14   conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by     -      none
                            operations, by level of extinction risk.
emissions         g4-en15   direct greenhous gas (ghg) emissions (scope 1)                 p47-62   data
                            energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope
                  g4-en16                                                                  p47-62   data
                            2).
                                                                                           p7-16    foster group csr
                  g4-en17   other indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 3).
                                                                                                    management
                  g4-en18   greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions intensity.                      p37-42   environment
                  g4-en19   reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions.                   p37-42   environment
                  g4-en20   emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ods)                    -      n/a
                  g4-en21   nox, sox, and other significant air emissions.                   -      n/a
effluents and     g4-en22   total water discharge by quality and destination.              p47-62   data
waste
                  g4-en23   total weight of waste by type and disposal method.             p37-42   environment
                  g4-en24   total number and volume of significant spills.                   -      n/a
                            weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated
                            waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the basel
                  g4-en25                                                                    -      n/a
                            convention annex i, ii, iii, and viii, and percentage of
                            transported waste shipped internationally.
                            identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of
                  g4-en26   water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by      -      none
                            the organization's discharges of water and runoff.
products and                extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of
                  g4-en27                                                                  p37-42   environment
services                    products and services.
                            percentage of products sold and their packaging materials
                  g4-en28                                                                  p37-42   environment
                            that are reclaimed by category.
compliance                  monetary value of significant fines and total number
                  g4-en29   of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with                -      n/a
                            environmental laws and regulations.
transport                   significant environmental impacts of transporting products
                                                                                           p7-16    foster group csr
                  g4-en30   and other goods and materials for the organization's
                                                                                                    management
                            operations, and transporting members of the workforce.
                            total environmental protection expenditures and
overall           g4-en31                                                                  p47-62   data
                            investments by type.




                                                                                                                             58

data table




     environmental                                   gri                                           this report or corporate site

supplier                       percentage of new suppliers that were screened using
                     g4-en32                                                                     p47-62   data
environmental                  environmental criteria.
assessment
                               significant actual and potential negative environmental
                     g4-en33                                                                       -      none
                               impacts in the supply chain and actions taken.
environmental                  number of grievances about environmental impacts
grievance            g4-en34   filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance             -      n/a (headquarters)
mechanisms                     mechanisms.



        social                                       gri                                           this report or corporate site

                                                                                                  p3-4    top message
social dma
                                                                                                 p27-36   social
labor practices                total number and rates of new employee hires and
                     g4-la1                                                                      p47-62   data
and decent work                employee turnover by age group, gender and region.
                               benefits provided to full-time employees that are not
                     g4-la2    provided to temporary or part time employees, by                    -      none
                               significant locations of operation.
                               return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by
                     g4-la3                                                                      p47-62   data
                               gender.
                               minimum notice periods regarding operational changes,
                     g4-la4    including whether these are specified in collective                 -      none
                               agreements.
labor practices                percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint
and decent work                management-worker health and safety committees that
                     g4-la5                                                                      p47-62   data
                               help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety
                               programs.
                               type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases,
                     g4-la6    lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-             p47-62   data
                               related fatalities, by region and by gender.
                               workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to
                     g4-la7                                                                        -      none
                               their occupation.
                               health and safety topics covered in formal agreements
                     g4-la8                                                                      p47-62   data
                               with trade unions.
                               average hours of training per year per employee by
                     g4-la9                                                                      p47-62   data
                               gender, and by employee category.
                               programs for skills management and lifelong learning that
                     g4-la10   support the continued employability of employees and                -      none
                               assist them in managing career endings.
                               percentage of employees receiving regular performance
                     g4-la11   and career development reviews, by gender and by                  p47-62   data
                               employee category.
                               composition of governance bodies and breakdown of
                               employees per employee category according to gender,
                     g4-la12                                                                     p47-62   data
                               age group, minority group membership, and other
                               indicators of diversity.
                               ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to
                     g4-la13   men by employee category, by significant locations of             p47-62   data
                               operation.
                               percentage of new suppliers that were screened using
                     g4-la14                                                                     p47-62   data
                               labor practices criteria.
                               significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor
                     g4-la15                                                                       -      none
                               practices in the supply chain and actions taken.
                               number of grievances about labor practices filed,
                     g4-la16   addressed, and resolved through formal grievance                  p47-62   data
                               mechanisms.
human rights                   total number and percentage of significant investment
                     g4-hr1    agreements and contracts that include human rights                  -      none
                               clauses or that underwent human rights screening.


59

                                                                                                                data table




      social                                   gri                                        this report or corporate site

human rights             total hours of employee training on human rights policies
                         or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that
               g4-hr2                                                                   p47-62   data
                         are relevant to operations, including the percentage of
                         employees trained.
                         total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective
               g4-hr3                                                                     -      n/a
                         actions taken.
                         operations and suppliers identified in which the right to
                         exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining
               g4-hr4                                                                     -      none
                         may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken
                         to support these rights.
                         operations and suppliers identified as having significant
               g4-hr5    risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to         -      none
                         contribute to the effective abolition of child labor.
                         operations and suppliers identified as having significant
                         risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and
               g4-hr6                                                                     -      none
                         measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of
                         forced or compulsory labor.
                         percentage of security personnel trained in the
               g4-hr7    organization's human rights policies or procedures that are    p47-62   data
                         relevant to operations.
                         total number of incidents of violations involving rights of
               g4-hr8                                                                     -      n/a
                         indigenous peoples and actions taken.
                         total number and percentage of operations that have been
               g4-hr9                                                                     -      none
                         subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments.
                         percentage of new suppliers that were screened using
               g4-hr10                                                                  p47-62   data
                         human rights criteria.
                         significant actual and potential negative human rights
               g4-hr11                                                                  p47-62   data
                         impacts in the supply chain and actions taken.
                         numer of grievances about human rights impacts filed,
               g4-hr12   addressed, and resolved through formal grievance               p47-62   data
                         mechanisms.
society                  percentage of operations with implemented local
               g4-so1    community engagement, impact assessments, and                    -      none
                         development programs.
                         operations with significant actual and potential negative
               g4-so2                                                                     -      none
                         impacts on local communities.
                         total number and percentage of operations assessed for
               g4-so3                                                                     -      none
                         risks related to corruption.
                         communication and training on anti-corruption policies
               g4-so4                                                                     -      none
                         and procedures.
               g4-so5    confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken.             -      none
                         total value of political contributions by country and
               g4-so6                                                                     -      none
                         recipient/beneficiary.
                         total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior,
               g4-so7                                                                     -      n/a
                         anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes.
                         monetary value of significant fines and total number of
               g4-so8    non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and          -      n/a
                         regulations.
                         percentage of new suppliers that were screened using
               g4-so9                                                                   p47-62   data
                         criteria for impacts on society.
                         significant actual and potential negative impacts on
               g4-so10                                                                    -      none
                         society in the supply chain and actions taken.
                         number of grievances about impacts on society filed,
               g4-so11   addressed, and resolved through formal grievance               p47-62   data
                         mechanisms.




                                                                                                                          60

data table




       social                                  gri                                      this report or corporate site

product                   percentage of significant product and service categories
responsibility   g4-pr1   for which health and safety impacts are assessed for          -     none
                          improvement.
                          total number of incidents of non-compliance with
                          regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and
                 g4-pr2                                                                 -     none
                          safety impacts of products and services during their life
                          cycle, by type of outcomes.
                          type of product and service information required by
                          the organization's procedures for product and service
                 g4-pr3   information and labeling, and percentage of significant       -     none
                          product and service categories subject to such information
                          requirements.
                          total number of incidents of non-compliance with
                 g4-pr4   regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and        -     none
                          service information and labeling, by type of outcomes.
                 g4-pr5   results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction.           -     none
                 g4-pr6   sale of banned or disputed products.                          -     none
                          total number of incidents of non-compliance with
                          regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing
                 g4-pr7                                                                 -     none
                          communications, including advertising, promotion, and
                          sponsorship, by type of outcomes.
                          total number of substantiated complaints regarding
                 g4-pr8   breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer           -     n/a
                          data.
                          monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with
                 g4-pr9   laws and regulations concerning the provisions and use of     -     n/a
                          products and services.




61

provision of information regarding
sustainability
our point of view on disclosure
information on the foster group’s sustainability is provided with a view to increasing the transparency of the foster
group and conveying the activities for foster group’s sustainability and their results to our stakeholders. this information
is provided in accordance with the gri (global reporting initiative) and other international reporting guidelines. we
disclose the information on the foster group’s activities and achievements that meet the needs of society such as the ten
principles of the united nations global compact and eicc (electronic industry citizenship coalition), together with the
system for appropriate disclosure of the decision-making processes and the soundness of pdca and its operation. the
information is disclosed via our sustainability report and corporate website for communications.


items reported in sustainability report 2017
∙ about this report
  the “sustainability report 2017” (the report 2017) was prepared to comprehensively report the foster group’s corporate
  social responsibility (csr) activities throughout the fiscal year ended march 31, 2017 (fiscal 2016), for our stakeholders.
  with regard to our csr activities, your valued opinion would be greatly appreciated to help us fulfill our corporate social
  responsibilities in the years to come. we hope this report will help you better understand the csr activities of the foster
  group.
∙ reporting scope
  unless specifically indicated, the reporting scope of the report 2017 includes the csr activities of the foster group,
  which consists of foster electric company, limited, and its consolidated subsidiaries in japan and overseas.
∙ the reporting period of the report 2017
  the reporting period of the report 2017 is from april 1, 2016, to march 31, 2017 (fiscal 2016). the report also includes
  statements concerning activities outside the reporting period, including those in fiscal 2017.
∙ referenced guidelines
  the environmental reporting guidelines 2012 by the ministry of the environment and the gri sustainability reporting
  guidelines g4 were referred to when preparing the report 2017.
∙ month of issue:
  june 2017
∙ next issue of the csr report (planned):
  june 2018
∙ reporting to the united nations global compact
  as a company that has signed the united nations global compact, we have announced this report as the “global
  compact communication on progress (cop)” for the four fields and ten principles to our stakeholders. details on our
  activities related to the united nations global compact can be found in page 17.
∙ provision of the sustainability information on our corporate website
  http://www.foster-electric.com/csr/index.html
∙ contact:
  foster electric company, limited    phone: +81- (0) 42-546-2311        fax: +81- (0) 42-546-2317




                                                                                                                          62

foster electric company, limited        the cover page features 15 colorful and
                                        slender threads that are crossing one
                                        another. these 15 colors indicate the
1-1-109 tsutsujigaoka, akishima city,   number of countries and regions in which
tokyo, 196-8550, japan                  the foster group has its sites and the
                                        slender threads indicate every employee.
phone: +81- (0) 42-546-2311
                                        this design expresses the foster group
fax: +81- (0) 42-546-2317               being weaved from every employee and the
url http://www.foster-electric.com/     culture of each country/region.


                                                            june 2017 edited in japan
