annual report 2014




engineering for a better world

    gea group: key ifrs figures

                                                                                                                                                                           change
    (eur million)                                                                                                                        2014                      2013      in %

    results of operations
    order intake                                                                                                                      4,519.6                4,627.9         –2.3
    revenue                                                                                                                           4,515.7                4,320.0          4.5
    order backlog                                                                                                                     2,037.6                2,015.5          1.1
    operating ebitda 1                                                                                                                   590.7                     530.1     11.4
     as % of revenue                                                                                                                      13.1                      12.3        –
    ebitda                                                                                                                               539.9                     515.2      4.8
    operating ebit 1                                                                                                                     513.5                     458.8     11.9
     as % of revenue                                                                                                                      11.4                      10.6        –
    ebit                                                                                                                                 439.9                     419.6      4.8
     as % of revenue                                                                                                                        9.7                      9.7        –
    ebt                                                                                                                                  373.8                     352.1      6.2
    profit after tax from continuing operations                                                                                          286.0                     282.0      1.4
    profit or loss after tax from discontinued operations                                                                                 34.6                      54.4    –36.3
    profit for the period                                                                                                                320.6                     336.4     –4.7

    net assets
    total assets                                                                                                                      5,832.0                6,464.6         –9.8
    equity                                                                                                                            2,527.2                2,315.7          9.1
     as % of total assets                                                                                                                 43.3                      35.8        –
    working capital (reporting date)                                                                                                     424.4                     363.3     16.8
    working capital (average of the past 12 months)                                                                                      547.2                     506.4      8.1
     as % of revenue (average of the past 12 months)                                                                                      12.1                      11.7        –
    net liquidity (+)/net debt (-) (including discontinued operations) 2                                                                 903.7                –178.6            –
    gearing in % (net liquidity or net debt/equity)                                                                                      –35.8                       7.7        –

    financial position
    cash flow from operating activities                                                                                                  401.6                     424.7     –5.4
    cash flow driver 3                                                                                                                   405.3                     413.8     –2.0
     as % of revenue (past 12 months)                                                                                                       9.0                      9.6        –
    capital employed (reporting date)                                                                                                 2,638.4                2,550.2          3.5
    capital employed (average of the past 12 months)                                                                                  2,736.2                2,687.3          1.8
    roce in % (ebit/capital employed) 4                                                                                                   16.1                      15.6        –
    roce in % (goodwill adjusted) 5                                                                                                       22.6                      22.1        –
    capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment                                                                                  93.8                     120.5    –22.2
    full-time equivalents (reporting date) excluding vocational trainees and inactive
    employment contracts                                                                                                               18,243                 17,750          2.8

    gea shares
    earnings per share pre purchase price allocation (eur)                                                                                1.76                      1.86     –5.5
    earnings per share (eur)                                                                                                              1.66                      1.75     –4.6
    weighted average number of shares outstanding (million)                                                                              192.5                     192.5        –

    1) before effects of purchase price allocations and before one-offs (see page 212 f.)
    2) net liquidity/debt = cash and cash equivalents + fixed deposits with a remaining period ≤ 1 year + marketable securities - liabilities to banks
    3) cash flow driver = ebitda - capital expenditure - change in working capital (average of the past 12 months)
    4) capital employed including goodwill from the acquisition of the former gea ag by the former metallgesellschaft ag in 1999 (average of the past 12 months)
    5) capital employed excluding goodwill from the acquisition of the former gea ag by the former metallgesellschaft ag in 1999 (average of the past 12 months)




2                                                                       gea group annual report 2014

    the gea group: engineering for a better world



    gea group aktiengesellschaft is one of the largest suppliers for the food processing industry
    and a wide range of process industries that generated consolidated sales of approximately
    eur 4.5 billion in 2014. as of december 31, 2014, the group employed more than 18,000
    people worldwide.
    as an international technology group, the company focuses on process technology and
    components for sophisticated production processes in various end-user markets. the group
    generates more than 70 percent of its revenue in the sustainably growing food industry.
    gea group is a market and technology leader in its business areas. the company is listed in
    germany’s mdax stock index (g1a, wkn 660 200). in addition, gea is a constituent of the
    msci global sustainability indices.




                                             2014
    order intake                                                                 revenue
eur 4,520 million                                                      eur 4,516 million
                                        operating
                                      ebitda margin
                                          13.1 %
operating ebitda                                                            earnings per share

eur 591 million                                                                 1.66 eur
                                      gea group annual report 2014                                  3

gea group 2014: globally active

north america             western europe                       eastern europe
  2,068                    11,379                                665
  765 million              1,644 million                         391 million

                                                                                         = employees (ftes)
                                                                                         = revenue




latin america   africa              middle east                 asia / pacific
  390             364                 68                          3,309
  279 million     149 million         167 million                 1,121 million




cover image

                                    apart from exciting technologies, gea revealed a special highlight at an
                                    important food & beverage fair in 2014: combined with a new generation
                                    of t.vis control tops for monitoring and controlling process valves, the
                                    stem diaphragm valve for ultraclean applications that is mainly used in
                                    fruit juice production had been given a transparent and hands-on design.
                                    for this purpose, the company had developed the very first valve manifold
                                    with a transparent housing. this visualization allowed customers to
                                    actually see the valve functionalities in process, including the opening and
                                    closing mechanisms for sealing.




     4                          gea group annual report 2014

                 contents



		6                                     letter to shareholders
		 10                                   report of the supervisory board
		 14                                   executive board of gea group aktiengesellschaft

 management  15                         combined group management report
      report 15                         fundamental information about the group
		 26                                   report on economic position
		60                                    report on post-balance sheet date events
		 61                                   corporate governance report
			                                     including the corporate governance declaration
		 67                                   remuneration report
		 82                                   report on risks and opportunities
		 94                                   report on expected developments

 gea shares/investor relations    99
         sustainability report   104

         consolidated            121    contents
 financial statements            122    consolidated balance sheet
		                               124    consolidated income statement
		                               125    consolidated statement of comprehensive income
		                               126    consolidated cash flow statement
		                               127    consolidated statement of changes in equity
		                               128    notes to the consolidated financial statements
		                               226    independent group auditor’s report
		                               227    responsibility statement

		 228                                  the company’s executive bodies and their appointments
		 230                                  key figures by quarter
financial calendar/imprint 231




                                 gea group annual report 2014                                   5

                                                  letter to shareholders




                                     jürg oleas,
                                     chairman of the executive board
                                     of gea group aktiengesellschaft




    dear shareholders
    despite the less dynamic global economic development, 2014 was another record-breaking year for gea.
    accordingly, we met our guidance for the fiscal year by attaining new all-time highs in terms of sales and
    our operating margin. furthermore, we substantially reduced our debt while simultaneously completing
    the work on topics crucial for gea’s future development and setting the course for further changes.

    as expected, at more than eur 4.5 billion our order intake remained roughly on a par with the previous
    year. a fall in the number of large orders was offset by a marked increase in our bread-and-butter business
    embracing order volumes of less than eur 1 million. organic sales grew 5.6 percent and also exceeded
    eur 4.5 billion. it is worth noting that all group segments were instrumental in accomplishing this
    growth by generating record sales. we managed to significantly enhance our operating ebitda by
    11.4 percent to reach eur 591 million. this corresponds to an excellent margin of 13.1 percent. until a few
    years ago, gea had only managed to achieve such figures in selected portfolio areas. moreover, at
    9.0 percent, the cash flow driver margin also met our guidance. at the same time it must be taken into
    account that this key performance indicator was not adjusted for the one-off expenses mainly incurred in
    connection with the “fit for 2020” project.

    both our company’s focus on the promising food sector as well as the major reduction in debt has
    prompted the two international rating agencies moody’s and fitch to lift their respective rating of
    gea group aktiengesellschaft within the investment grade category. these ratings prove a company’s
    creditworthiness vis-à-vis current and potential lenders.

    the success achieved in the year just ended is also reflected in our rise in share price. on november 27, our
    share reached a new 20-year high at eur 38.52. due to some profit taking at the end of the year, the share
    closed at eur 36.60 in late december, which corresponds to a 5.8 percent share price increase in 2014.
    thus, gea’s share price clearly outperformed both the dax and the mdax in the previous year. in 2014,
    the stoxx® europe tmi industrial engineering benchmark index, which is even more important to us,
    actually went down.

    based on this share price, our market capitalization had climbed to approximately eur 7.0 billion by the
    end of the fiscal year 2014. this makes gea the largest publicly listed company in the world for all investors
    willing to put money into the process engineering sector by focusing on the food processing industry.




6                                            gea group annual report 2014

                                           letter to shareholders




divestment of the gea heat exchangers segment
after having redefined our long-term strategic orientation and gea’s core business towards our position
as the leading supplier of systems for the food industry back in 2012, we set the course for the divestiture
of our gea heat exchangers segment. based on an enterprise value of around eur 1.3 billion, we sold
the segment to funds advised by triton in april 2014. with triton we found a reputable owner for this
segment. once the approval from the competent antitrust authorities had been obtained, we successfully
closed the sale of the segment within the set timeframe in late october 2014.

preparing for the future
at increasingly shorter intervals, companies have to gear up to tackle more substantial changes in the
general environment. thus, a sudden escalation of geopolitical or financial crises like the current
troubles in ukraine or the situation in greece may quickly pose adverse challenges to the global
economy. for this reason it is important for a company to be able to swiftly adapt to a wide range of
challenges to remain successful in the long run. for this purpose its organization should be very lean
and highly agile. moreover, we at gea also tend to regard shorter-term projects or our independence
from individual key accounts as a basis for guaranteeing the necessary versatility.

in addition, we need to secure our outstanding market position through continuous innovation. this
means that we keep offering new, highly innovative products that serve as trendsetters for the entire
market. moreover, product leadership also entails a strong brand name. at present, gea employs
approximately 7,000 employees who perform engineering and engineering-related activities. apart
from fully-fledged mechanical engineers, they also include process, automation and food engineers.
around 800 of these employees work in product development. compared with our entire workforce,
these figures show how important it is for us to permanently make technical processes more efficient
and, thus, be the number one choice for our customers.

in the course of our portfolio adjustment, we also took a close look at the areas in which we intended to
generate our future corporate growth while exploring which organizational setup would be optimal for
achieving this goal. this was the starting point for our “fit for 2020” project, which we launched in 2014.

in august, we informed the capital markets about the essential contribution this project will make to
our future development. optimized organizational structures are to reduce complexity and, thus, allow
for substantial savings while promoting further growth. in the future gea will have much flatter
hierarchies and be closer to the local customers. this way, we will continue to further strengthen and
expand the sustainable competitiveness of your company until 2020 and beyond.

we quite consciously initiated this process at this particular point in time out of a position of strength
following several excellent business years to be in the best possible position to face the challenges that
lie ahead. we have a proven track record of successfully implementing comprehensive processes of
change. for this reason, we can rely on a considerable wealth of experience in tackling the tasks ahead.
you will be able to perceive these changes as of the second quarter of 2015 when we will start reporting
our results under the new organizational structure.




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                            7

                                             letter to shareholders




    new medium-term objectives
    in the previous year, we also set ourselves new detailed financial targets to be met by the year 2020.
    these targets underline our orientation towards gea’s sustainable value enhancement. in the light of
    our current positive result we are confident that we will be able to realize an annual average organic
    growth rate of 4 to 6 percent as well as a service proportion of roughly 30 percent. with a 5.6 percent
    growth in organic sales achieved in 2014, we were even in the upper bounds of this target corridor.
    moreover, a service proportion of currently 27 percent goes to show that we are also heading in the
    right direction in this particular area.

    however, prospects also look promising for other areas. due to savings under our ‘fit for 2020’ project
    and further growth in volume, we expect an operating ebit margin of 13 to 16 percent between 2017
    and 2020. after all, we will ensure that we tie up a minimum amount of capital by striving to keep our
    working capital level at between 10 to 12 percent of sales, and our investment volume at between
    1.5 and 2 percent of sales. in this way we will make sure that we strengthen our market position and
    further enhance enterprise value.

    for you, our shareholders, the proposed increase in dividend payout ratio to between 40 and 50 percent
    of our net income will surely be appealing. with immediate effect, you will receive a much higher
    share in the company’s profits than in the past.

    global customer survey
    our company can only achieve sustainable success if we are a preferred supplier. the results of the
    first global customer satisfaction survey have told us more about the way gea is perceived by the
    markets and its customers while identifying areas for improvement. we conducted this survey
    amongst customers in more than 20 countries that, taken together, represent around 80 percent of our
    sales volume. at the same time, all continuing operations as well as a multitude of industries and
    product groups were included in the survey. apart from questions on customer loyalty, satisfaction
    with our products, services and processes, the telephone interviews also comprised a peer comparison
    as well as questions on gea’s image and brand awareness. all in all, we can be satisfied with the
    outcome. gea received top results in terms of machine quality and performance, while there is still
    some room for improvement in a few service areas. these findings will be taken into account within
    the framework of the “fit for 2020” project with a view to further improving gea’s customer proximity
    and speed by means of tangible measures and structural changes.

    employees
    on behalf of my fellow executive board members and myself i would like to take this opportunity to
    thank our more than 18,000 employees for their hard work and commitment over the year. my thanks
    expressly include the employee representative bodies. as in previous years, our employees below
    senior leadership level worldwide will be awarded an extra bonus in recognition of their performance.
    for the fiscal year just ended, the amount paid out to each employee will once again be equivalent to
    the sum disbursed in the previous year. excluding the divested gea heat exchangers segment, the
    total amount under the extra bonus totals approximately eur 4 million.




8                                        gea group annual report 2014

                                         letter to shareholders




outlook
the new fiscal year that started only recently will mark another crucial milestone in gea’s corporate
history. apart from ensuring operational success and an even higher level of customer orientation, our
most important undertaking will be the finalization and smooth implementation of the new
organizational structure that needs to be filled with life.

provided that there is no slowdown in economic growth, on the basis of constant currencies versus
2014 and without taking into consideration the impact of acquisitions or one-off effects, we seek to
achieve a moderate organic growth in sales as well as an operating ebitda of between eur 580 million
and eur 620 million. under the same conditions, our cash flow driver margin is to reach a level of
between 9.0 and 9.5 percent.

this forecast does not yet factor in first savings realized within the framework of the group’s
reorganization. against this backdrop, we will specify our guidance for business progress in may.

our strategy of acquiring companies to open up new markets for gea or specifically expand gea’s
product portfolio in existing markets will remain unchanged and valid. in this way, we intend to offer
our customers an increasing range of services from a single source. nonetheless, in the light of fragile
global financial markets, we will put particular emphasis on retaining gea’s stable credit rating in the
credit markets.

dividend
for the successful fiscal year 2014, the executive board and the supervisory board will propose an
increased dividend of eur 0.70 to the shareholders at the annual general meeting. thus, the volume
of dividend payout would rise 16.7 percent to eur 134.7 million. this dividend payment would hit
another record high and be in line with our new target of distributing between 40 and 50 percent of net
income to you.

yours sincerely,



jürg oleas
chairman of the executive board




                                      gea group annual report 2014                                         9

                                          report of the supervisory board




     report of the supervisory board
     yet again, the supervisory board performed the monitoring and advisory functions incumbent upon it
     by virtue of the law, the articles of association and the rules of procedure with due care and diligence
     during 2014, the year under review. in doing so, it regularly and extensively dealt with the situation
     and the prospects of the company as well as all specific material issues, in particular the divestiture of
     the gea heat exchangers segment and the “fit for 2020” strategy project. the supervisory board
     continuously advised the executive board on the management of the company while overseeing its
     conduct of the company’s business on an ongoing basis.

     for fulfilling its tasks, the supervisory board relied on the discussions held at its meetings and the
     meetings of its committees. on the other hand, the executive board complied with its obligation to
     inform the supervisory board and its committees by providing written and/or oral reports on all
     relevant matters and measures relating to the company, its course of business, corporate planning and
     strategy as well as the situation of the group on a regular, timely and comprehensive basis. the
     supervisory board was directly involved in all decisions of fundamental importance to the company
     and assisted the executive board in an advisory capacity. at committee level and during the meetings
     of the full supervisory board, the members of the supervisory board were at all times given sufficient
     opportunity to critically discuss the reports and motions submitted by the executive board and to
     table recommendations. the results obtained and the essential contributions made during the
     discussions held at the committee meetings were presented at the respective following supervisory
     board meeting by the chairmen of the presiding and the audit committees and assisted the full board
     in forming an opinion. this way, the preparatory and in-depth work undertaken by the committees
     was instrumental in enhancing the efficiency of the activities of the supervisory board as a whole.

     furthermore, the chairmen of the supervisory board and the committees maintained regular contact
     with the executive board and kept each other informed of essential matters. between the meetings, the
     chairman of the supervisory board and the chairman of the executive board regularly discussed
     issues relating to strategy, in particular the continuation of gea’s focal “fit for 2020” strategy project
     and the state of play of the divestment of the gea heat exchangers segment, as well as issues relating
     to planning, business development, risk exposure, risk management and compliance. in this context,
     the chairman of the supervisory board was also regularly and promptly informed of the outlook for
     the individual segments and group prospects, as well as further important developments and imminent
     decisions. outside meetings, the chairman of the audit committee remained in contact with the
     members of the executive board, in particular the chief financial officer, to keep abreast of current
     developments relevant to the work of the audit committee and to discuss them, if necessary. in
     preliminary meetings with the executive board, the employee representatives regularly deliberated on
     the most important agenda items prior to the plenary meetings of the supervisory board.

     on a regular basis, the supervisory board was provided with comprehensive information on order
     intake, revenue, earnings and employment trends of the group, its segments and the other companies,
     as well as the discontinued operations, with detailed explanations on deviations from the course of
     business and set plans or targets being given on the basis of supporting documents. prior to and
     between the meetings, the executive board delivered written reports on significant events to the
     members of the supervisory board. following deliberations at committee level, the future prospects
     and the strategic orientation of the company and its business units, as well as corporate planning,
     were extensively discussed and agreed with the supervisory board.




10                                         gea group annual report 2014

                                     report of the supervisory board




the main focus of the activities undertaken by the supervisory board and the presiding committee,
which prepared the supervisory board meetings, was put on deliberating the divestment of the
gea heat exchangers segment as well as the restructuring of the company within the framework of
the “fit for 2020” project. furthermore, the supervisory board and the audit committee took a close
look at the company’s risk management and internal control systems.

after extensively scrutinizing and discussing the reports and motions for resolution submitted by the
executive board, and following discussions at committee level, as the case may be, the supervisory
board cast their respective votes insofar as this was appropriate or required by law, the provisions of
the articles of association or the rules of procedure. for reasons duly substantiated, in particular in
matters of special urgency, resolutions were adopted by written procedure.

in the year under review, there were no conflicts of interest involving members of the executive board
or the supervisory board that would have required immediate disclosure to the supervisory board and
communication to the annual general meeting.

focal points of supervisory board deliberations
in 2014, during the year under review, the supervisory board held seven meetings, one of them being
a conference call meeting. on these occasions, the supervisory board regularly discussed matters
relating to the company’s business progress, its financial position, share price performance, the state
of play of the “fit for 2020” project as well as the divestment of the gea heat exchangers segment.

key items on the agenda of the conference call supervisory board meeting on february 5, 2014,
included the early capital markets information as well as the dividend distribution proposal.

the key items on the agenda of the supervisory board meeting held on march 6, 2014, were the approval
and adoption of the annual financial statements and the consolidated financial statements for the fiscal
year 2013, including the appropriation of net earnings. at this meeting, the supervisory board also finally
determined and weighted the executive board members’ personal targets for the fiscal year 2014, the chief
compliance officer’s report and conducted the examination of efficiency recommended under section 5.6
of the german corporate governance code in relation to the activities of the supervisory board.

on april 15, 2014, the supervisory board held an extraordinary meeting that exclusively focused on
“project forward” – the divestiture of the gea heat exchangers segment.

the supervisory board meeting on april 16, 2014, mainly served the purpose of preparing the annual
general meeting which took place immediately afterwards. moreover, this meeting saw the extension of
the mandate and the renewal of the service agreement concluded with dr. helmut schmale until
march 31, 2018. apart from that, the executive board was informed about the current business progress.

the meeting held on june 26, 2014, focused on the “fit for 2020” project. at this meeting, the supervisory
board also resolved on extending dr. stephan petri’s mandate and renewing his service agreement until
may 31, 2018.

on september 25, 2014, the supervisory board held a meeting at the niederahr plant, a production site
of gea’s mechanical equipment segment. one day prior to the meeting, the supervisory board paid a
visit to a customer of the gea process engineering segment that is active in the dairy processing
sector. during its meeting, the board engaged in a discussion about a potential successor to mr. klaus
hunger, whose supervisory board mandate expired with the sale of the segment gea heat exchangers,
as employee representative on the supervisory board. furthermore, those present talked about the
allocation of funds available from the sale of the gea heat exchangers segment.




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                           11

                                         report of the supervisory board




     the meeting held on december 18, 2014, focused on two main topics, i.e. the approval of the 2015
     budget including a preview of medium-term planning, as well as a report on the “fit for 2020” project.
     as in previous years, the december meeting also centered on current developments in terms of
     corporate governance, including the adoption of the 2014 declaration of compliance in line with the
     corporate governance code. further topics included the achievement of the targets set for the
     members of the executive board, the executive board targets for the year 2015, as well as a preview of
     the results of the global customer survey. in addition, the members of the supervisory board elected
     ms. brigitte krönchen to serve on the audit committee, while mr. kurt-jürgen löw was elected a
     member of the mediation committee. both positions had to be refilled due to mr. hunger’s retirement
     from the supervisory board following the divestment of gea heat exchangers.

     work of the committees
     the presiding committee met on four occasions. apart from the preparation of the supervisory board
     meetings, the main topics of the meetings embraced deliberations on the extension of the mandates
     and renewal of the service agreements concluded with dr. helmut schmale and dr. stephan petri as
     members of the executive board. in its september 2014 meeting, the presiding committee gave its
     consent to the acquisition of 100 percent of the shares in the de klokslag group, while it agreed to a
     two-year extension of the d&o insurance policy in december. most notably, however, the presiding
     committee continued its in-depth discussions in connection with the strategy process and prepared
     the relevant meetings of the full supervisory board.

     the audit committee met 5 times. in the presence of the auditor, the chairman of the executive board,
     the chief financial officer as well as the director of industrial relations, it focused on the 2014
     quarterly financial statements, the chief compliance officer’s report and the annual financial
     statements in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year 2013.
     furthermore, the committee’s key activities included monitoring the accounting process, while
     addressing issues relative to the effectiveness of the internal audit system and the audit of the annual
     financial statements. moreover, the committee obtained detailed information on the company’s
     opportunities and risks including the group’s pending legal disputes. the auditors extensively
     elaborated on their auditing activities and the audit process. in addition, the audit committee
     submitted its proposal for the appointment of an auditor to the supervisory board, dealt with the
     award of the audit contract to the auditor, the determination of the audit process including the audit
     fee, as well as the necessary independence of the auditor. apart from that, the audit committee
     obtained comprehensive reports on the findings from the group’s internal audit that had been
     conducted for the period 2005 to 2008.

     with a view to the next elections to the supervisory board scheduled for 2016, the nomination
     committee held one meeting in the year under review.

     the mediation committee did not have to be convened during the year under review.

     the committee chairmen rendered an account of the activities undertaken by their specific committees
     to the supervisory board at the respective subsequent supervisory board meetings.




12                                         gea group annual report 2014

                                      report of the supervisory board




corporate governance
the supervisory board is continuously monitoring the development of the corporate governance
standards. at its meeting held on december 18, 2014, it discussed the recommendations and suggestions
of the german corporate governance code as amended in june 2014. at the end of this meeting, the
executive board and the supervisory board issued an updated declaration of compliance in accordance
with section 161 aktiengesetz (aktg – german stock corporation act) and made it permanently accessible
to the public on the company’s website. further information on corporate governance can be found in
the corporate governance report (see page 61 ff.).

annual financial statements and consolidated financial
statements for 2014
the 2014 annual financial statements of gea group aktiengesellschaft, the consolidated financial
statements prepared in accordance with ifrs and the combined management report were audited by
kpmg ag wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft and received an unqualified audit opinion.

in the presence of the auditors, the combined management report, the annual financial statements of
gea group aktiengesellschaft, the proposal for the appropriation of net earnings as well as the consolidated
financial statements and the audit reports for the fiscal year 2014 were extensively discussed and examined
at the meeting of the audit committee on february 26, 2015, and at the annual accounts adoption meeting
of the supervisory board held on march 5, 2015. the auditors reported on the audit process applied and the
material findings of their audit. they were also available to answer questions.

on the basis of the final results of the examination performed by the audit committee and after conducting
its own scrutiny, the supervisory board agreed with the auditors’ findings at its meeting on march 5, 2015,
and found that there were no objections to be raised. the supervisory board approved the 2014 consolidated
financial statements, the 2014 annual financial statements of gea group aktiengesellschaft, as well as the
combined management report. the annual financial statements of gea group aktiengesellschaft are hereby
adopted. the supervisory board considers the proposal for the appropriation of net earnings to be reasonable.

changes in the composition of the supervisory board and the
executive board
due to the divestment of the gea heat exchangers segment, mr. klaus hunger retired from the supervisory
board of gea group aktiengesellschaft at the time of closing on october 31, 2014. pursuant to the decision
taken by the düsseldorf district court on november 5, 2014, ms. brigitte krönchen was appointed as his
successor on the supervisory board. ms. krönchen is deputy chair of the gea farm technologies gmbh
works council and also holds the position of deputy chair of the group works council.

the supervisory board wishes to express its gratitude and appreciation to the senior management teams,
employee representative bodies and, in particular, to all employees of the gea group companies for their
personal commitment and dedication as well as their hard work performed in an exceptionally challenging
fiscal year.

düsseldorf, march 5, 2015




dr. jürgen heraeus
chairman of the supervisory board




                                        gea group annual report 2014                                            13

                                                  executive board




     executive board of gea group aktiengesellschaft




                       dr. stephan petri          jürg oleas    dr. helmut schmale    markus hüllmann


     jürg oleas, chairman of the executive board
     jürg oleas, a swiss national born on december 8, 1957, in quito, ecuador, was appointed as chairman
     of the executive board effective november 1, 2004. his period of office runs until december 31, 2016.
     jürg oleas has been a member of the company’s executive board since may 1, 2001. in fiscal year 2014,
     he headed the gea process engineering segment and the gea heat exchangers segment, the
     discontinued operation which has now been sold.

     dr. helmut schmale, chief financial officer
     born on november 9, 1956, in gelsenkirchen, germany, dr. helmut schmale became chief financial
     officer on april 22, 2009, after joining the executive board on april 1, 2009. his period of office runs
     until march 31, 2018.

     markus hüllmann, member of the executive board
     markus hüllmann, born on july 29, 1968, in paderborn, germany, has been a member of the executive
     board of gea group aktiengesellschaft since april 1, 2013, and has headed the gea mechanical
     equipment and gea refrigeration technologies segments since april 19, 2013. in addition to his work
     on the executive board, markus hüllmann is segment president for the gea mechanical equipment
     segment. his period of office runs until march 31, 2016.

     dr. stephan petri, member of the executive board and labor relations director
     born on february 11, 1964, in traben-trarbach, germany, dr. stephan petri has been the executive board
     member responsible for human resources, legal/compliance, and the group’s other companies since
     june 1, 2012. in addition, he is the labor relations director. dr. stephan petri has also headed operations
     in the gea farm technologies segment since april 19, 2013. his period of office runs until may 31, 2018.




14                                          gea group annual report 2014

               combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




combined group management report

fundamental information about the group
group business model

combined management report of gea group aktiengesellschaft
and the gea group
gea group aktiengesellschaft is the management company for the group. profit and loss transfer
agreements are in place with key domestic subsidiaries. in addition, gea group aktiengesellschaft
performs central financial and liquidity management. it also provides its subsidiaries with services on
the basis of service agreements.

since the course of business, the economic position, and the opportunities and risks associated with the
future development of gea group aktiengesellschaft do not differ from the course of business, the
economic position, and the opportunities and risks associated with the future development of the group,
the management report of gea group aktiengesellschaft has been combined with that of the group in
accordance with section 315(3) of the handelsgesetzbuch (hgb – german commercial code). in contrast
to the consolidated ifrs financial statements, the annual financial statements of gea group
aktiengesellschaft are based on the hgb, supplemented by the aktiengesetz (aktg – german stock
corporation act).

organization and structure

gea group aktiengesellschaft		
at an organizational level, gea group is structured into segments and headed by the listed company
gea group aktiengesellschaft. this company performs essential management functions for the entire
group. these comprise the group-wide management of strategic, human resources, legal, and tax
matters, mergers & acquisitions, central financial management, and the internal audit function. group
corporate controlling and corporate accounting were integrated more tightly under joint management
as of july 1, 2014. the former investor and public relations unit was split into the investor relations
and communication & branding areas as of september 1, 2014.

segmentation of the group
as an international technology group, gea group focuses on the development and production of
process technology and components for sophisticated and efficient production methods in a variety of
end markets. gea group is one of the largest suppliers of systems and components for the food
processing industry and a wide range of other processing industries.

the units making up gea group are specialists in their respective core technologies and leaders in
their sales markets worldwide. gea group consistently promotes an innovation-led culture,
continuously renewing its technological edge. gea group considers profitability more important than
volume and practices systematic portfolio management and strict cost control. active risk management,
stability through diversification, and a focus on the markets of the future are binding principles for all
gea group business units.




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                          15

                   combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




          gea farm                gea mechanical               gea process            gea refrigeration
         technologies               equipment                  engineering              technologies
                                     mechanical
      milking & cooling                                        spray drying              compressors
                                     separation




                                   food solutions             aseptic filling          packages & skids




                                                             brewery & dairy
         farm services             homogenizers                                          ice machines
                                                                systems




       farm equipment                   valves               pharma systems                 freezers




     at the end of fiscal year 2014, the group was organized into 4 segments, which were allocated to
     continued operations. gea process engineering was headed by jürg oleas and gea mechanical
     equipment and gea refrigeration technologies by markus hüllmann. dr. stephan petri was responsible
     for the gea farm technologies segment.

     as already mentioned in the 2013 annual report, the gea food solutions and gea mechanical
     equipment operating segments were combined as of the beginning of fiscal year 2014 and are now
     reported as a single segment, gea mechanical equipment.

     the former gea heat exchangers segment was successfully sold in fiscal year 2014 (see page 50 f.).
     jürg oleas was also responsible for this segment until the transaction closed.

     the “other” reporting segment comprises gea group aktiengesellschaft and those companies with
     business activities that do not form part of the core business. in the main, this means internal service
     companies. given that this area has no material impact on the group as a whole, the management
     report only refers to it selectively.




16                                         gea group annual report 2014

               combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




the group’s enduring success is founded on a number of major global trends:

1. the continuous growth in the global population,
2. the growing middle class,
3. the growing demand for high-quality foods and beverages,
4. the increasing demand for production methods that are efficient and conserve valuable resources.

the group segments classified under continued operations are described in detail below:

gea farm technologies segment
gea farm technologies is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of integrated product solutions for
profitable milk production and livestock farming. the segment’s combined expertise in the areas of
milking and milk-cooling technology, automatic feeding systems, manure management systems, and
barn equipment provides a complete range of modern farming products and solutions. services and
animal hygiene solutions round off its profile as a full-line systems provider for farms of all sizes. the
segment’s sales strategy is built on a global network of specialist dealers and sales and service partners.

gea mechanical equipment segment
gea mechanical equipment specializes in separators, decanters, valves, pumps, and homogenizers –
high-quality process engineering components that ensure seamless processes and cost-effective
production in almost all major areas of industry worldwide. process technology for secondary food
processing and packaging extends the product portfolio, with the offering ranging from individual
machines to end-to-end production lines. gea mechanical equipment helps ensure high product
quality, reduce customers’ production costs, and sustainably protect the environment.

gea process engineering segment
gea process engineering specializes in the design and development of process solutions for the dairy,
brewing, food, pharma, and chemical industries. the segment is an acknowledged market and
technology leader in its business areas: liquid processing, concentration, industrial drying, powder
processing and handling, and emission control.

gea refrigeration technologies segment
gea refrigeration technologies is a market leader in the field of industrial refrigeration technology. the
segment develops, manufactures, and installs innovative key components and technical solutions for its
customers. its product range comprises the following core components: reciprocating and screw
compressors, valves, chillers, ice generators, and freezing systems. to ensure complete customer
satisfaction, gea refrigeration technologies also offers a broad range of maintenance and other services.




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                           17

                         combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




     discontinued operations
     gea heat exchangers segment
     on june 20, 2013, the executive board of gea group aktiengesellschaft resolved, with the approval of the
     supervisory board, to withdraw from the gea heat exchangers segment. this segment provides
     products and systems for numerous areas of use, ranging from air conditioning systems to cooling
     towers. boasting one of the largest portfolios of heat exchangers worldwide, the segment supplies optimal
     single-source solutions for a large number of applications and also offers customers professional support
     with project planning.

     since the selling process was initiated promptly, the segment was already reported under discontinued
     operations in fiscal year 2013. on april 16, 2014, an agreement was signed to sell the segment to funds
     advised by triton. the transaction closed successfully on october 31, 2014, after approval by the
     relevant antitrust authorities.

     remaining companies
     the remaining companies listed under discontinued operations comprise the risks remaining following
     the sale of the plant engineering activities, the ongoing process of winding-up the business operations of
     ruhr-zink, and individual legal disputes.

     engineering, production, and investment
     gea group companies develop and produce components, machines, systems, and plants primarily on a
     make-to-order basis for a broad range of industries. the focus is on the food and beverage sectors. with
     its global engineering and production network, the group is able to provide customers with solutions
     that are precisely tailored to their individual requirements. customers also benefit from our flexible
     production concepts, which ensure fast throughput and low costs, and minimize the capital tied up.

     capital expenditure totaled eur 93.8 million (previous year: eur 120.5 million), with by far the largest
     share being used for research and development, and new products (41.7 percent). replacement
     investments accounted for 25.8 percent of total capital expenditure, followed by growth and
     rationalization projects, which accounted for 12.3 percent and 10.7 percent respectively.


     capital expenditure in tangible and intangible
     assets per type                                                                      9.5
     (%)
                                                                                   10.7
           new products/r&d
           replacement                                                                                41.7
           growth
                                                                                 12.3
           rationalisation
           others


                                                                                           25.8




18                                              gea group annual report 2014

                      combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




in regional terms, capital expenditure focused primarily on germany (57.8 percent) and the rest of
western europe (26.3 percent), due to the high proportion of research and development activities in
these areas.


capital expenditure in tangible and intangible assets
by region                                                                                  7.7
(%)                                                                                  8.2

      germany
      western europe (without germany)
      asia/pacific
      other regions                                                           26.3
                                                                                                   57.8




procurement
gea is continuing to focus on strategic procurement, standardization, and on pooling orders so as to
ensure long-term price stability and reliability on the part of our main suppliers. long-term supply
agreements have been entered into with various suppliers in order to hedge commodity price risk and
thus reduce the risk in particular of price fluctuations with regard to the procurement of raw materials
and semifinished products.

procurement at gea group is conducted on a cross-segment basis, with the purchase of raw materials,
components, semifinished products, and services being pooled both by region and by commodity
groups. to achieve this goal, the gea procurement council was set up in recent years with the aim of
consolidating the strategic procurement operations by the individual segments. teams specializing in
specific raw materials cooperate on a cross-segment basis in order to make the best possible use of
procurement synergies within gea group. the gea procurement council stepped up its work in the
past fiscal year, allowing gea to better exploit and optimize procurement synergies.

gea leveraged substantial optimization potential with tools such as its purchasing portal, which has
significantly improved the availability of specific procurement data and group-wide information
sharing. as a result, procurement staff, project managers, and engineers can access the relevant data
and information much more quickly. specifically, this involved both cost and quality improvements
and major simplifications of various processes.

gea also stepped up its procurement activities in emerging economies in fiscal 2014 in order to
optimally exploit the cost benefits offered by these markets.

gea group’s total purchasing volume for its continued operations amounted to approximately
eur 2.2 billion in 2014. prices for almost all industrial raw materials fell in 2014. at 7.2 percent, this
was particularly the case for the energy sector. however, prices for metals also fell by around 6.6 percent
worldwide in the past fiscal year (see the world bank commodity markets outlook, january 2015).

a key focus was on providing further training for employees working in procurement. staff from
gea’s procurement divisions worldwide took part in “best-in-class” training programs.




                                             gea group annual report 2014                                     19

                   combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




     gea group companies actively used the group-wide classification system, gea class, which was rolled
     out across the group in 2013 and is designed to provide more meaningful procurement data and to
     establish a unified procurement system for materials and services. the system provides detailed cross-
     segment analyses of procurement prices and terms. it is based on ecl@ss, an international standard
     for electronic data interchange between suppliers and customers that is used around the world to
     classify a wide range of products, materials, and services. gea class was developed on the basis of this
     standard system and supplemented by the addition of a number of extra categories, resulting in a
     custom solution that enables the transparent and uniform classification of products and suppliers.

     of the initiatives mentioned, the gea refrigeration technologies procurement project – which was
     implemented at a number of locations worldwide – is worthy of particular mention. this project was
     launched in 2013 with the aim of improving the overall effectiveness of the procurement organization
     and hence to make significant cost savings. the systematic application of a large number of commercial
     levers to all relevant commodity groups meant that the procurement project made a clear contribution
     to improving the profitability of the gea refrigeration technologies segment in 2014. in the future,
     additional cross-functional cost reduction measures in commodity groups such as assembly services,
     switchgears, or measurement and control engineering can be driven forward in cooperation with other
     gea segments.

     management system

     basis of information
     group reports are prepared with the aid of standard applications that are precisely tailored to the
     needs of gea group and subject to continuous enhancement. standard reports prepared on the basis
     of unified data are used throughout the group to report net assets, financial position, and results of
     operations. these standard reports are supplemented by special analyses as well as analyses and
     reports related to specific businesses and strategic measures. corporate planning – which covers the
     current budget plus further two planning years – and risk reporting are both based on the same
     reporting and consolidation system that is used for the reporting of actual figures.

     routine reporting procedures are supplemented by committee meetings that provide members of the
     group management with an opportunity to share information on strategic and operational issues.
     meetings of the executive board of gea group aktiengesellschaft and of the extended management
     board, which comprises the executive board members and segment heads, are held once a month. the
     executive board meetings concentrate on issues of relevance to the group as a whole, whereas decisions
     with a direct impact on the segments are prepared in meetings of the extended management board,
     before passing to the executive board for approval. additionally, regular meetings are held with the
     individual segments. these are attended by the executive board member responsible for the relevant
     segment along with the cfo, segment managers, and selected heads of department from the group
     management company. such meetings entail detailed discussions of the net assets, financial position,
     results of operations, and business development of the segment concerned. separate meetings for each
     segment are also held to discuss earnings for the latest fiscal year and the business plan for the
     following years.




20                                         gea group annual report 2014

               combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




key performance indicators
gea’s overriding goal is to secure a sustainable increase in enterprise value. operational management is
based on the key drivers that have an immediate influence on value creation. since the company focuses
(see page 97) on growth, operating efficiency, and liquidity management, the most important key
performance indicators are revenue, earnings, and the cash flow driver margin. in the process, gea
takes an organic view of revenue trends, i.e. before acquisition and currency effects. with respect to
earnings, the company focuses on operating ebitda. gea defines “operating” as adjusted for effects
resulting from the remeasurement of assets added due to acquisitions, and for expenses that are
nonrecurring in terms of their nature or magnitude. for the purposes of analyzing and managing
earnings, this performance indicator is also adjusted for acquisition and currency effects. the cash flow
driver margin is defined as the net amount of ebitda, the change in average working capital, and
capital expenditure on property, plant, and equipment as well as intangible assets (all as reported),
expressed as a ratio to revenue. gea also regularly collates a range of other performance indicators in
order to obtain a meaningful picture of the overall situation.

revenue is analyzed by region and customer industry on a monthly basis in order to identify emerging
market trends as early as possible. in this context, we also evaluate leading indicators: the gea demand
index (gdi – see page 84) and order intake.

to enable a rapid response to developments, the segments are also required to return regular forecasts
– for the quarters and for the year as whole – for the key performance indicators revenue and operating
ebitda. in addition, these reports include forecasts of other performance indicators such as order
intake and ebit.

in order to create the requisite financial scope to achieve strategic growth and to focus the group even
more closely on cash flow generation, a new key performance indicator – the cash flow driver margin –
was introduced in 2012 and was also incorporated into the bonus system for senior management. since
2014, this system has also been applied to a larger group of employees.

the return on capital employed (roce), calculated as the ratio of ebit to capital employed, provides a
further performance indicator for measuring the value added that is generated by the group’s operating
activities. it therefore figures in both the group’s regular reporting activities and the calculation of
variable, performance-related elements of management remuneration. in order to anchor roce even
more strongly at an operational level, the roce drivers ebit and ebit margin, working capital – the
key driver of capital employed – and the ratio of working capital to revenue are monitored continuously.
when calculating capital employed, effects arising from the acquisition of the former gea ag by the
former metallgesellschaft ag in 1999 are not taken into account.

the difference between the expected roce and the weighted average cost of capital (wacc) is a key
criterion for investment and portfolio decisions. the group calculates wacc on the basis of the
following factors: the cost of equity, based on the return yielded by an alternative, risk-free investment
plus a market risk premium and the beta factor, actual borrowing costs, and the rate used to discount
pension obligations.




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                          21

                    combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




     management of capital employed
     resources are allocated within the group primarily on the basis of strategic and medium-term planning.
     this provides the framework for preparing key decisions on core technologies, sales markets, and
     other strategically important variables.

     acquisitions and expansion investments are assessed not only on the basis of key performance
     indicators showing potential returns, but also in terms of their importance for achieving the group’s
     strategic goals. the key economic criterion for evaluating rationalization and expansion investments
     is the net present value. the payback period is also calculated as an additional benchmark for assessing
     the risk arising from changing economic conditions.

     working capital is another key element of capital employed. working capital management begins
     before an order is accepted with the payment terms that are offered or negotiated.

     project- and activity-based management
     in addition to general management with the aid of the key performance indicators described above, the
     group has established individual assessment and approval procedures for customer and investment
     projects, utilizing specific thresholds for the different hierarchy levels. customer projects are evaluated
     primarily on the basis of their expected margins (gross margin on a fully absorbed cost basis) and of their
     commercial and contractual risk profile, with a particular emphasis on cash flow. project management is
     also backed up by extensive project control not only at operating unit level but also – depending on the
     size of the project involved – at segment or group level in the form of a separate reporting system for
     major contracts. in many cases, the findings gained from this analysis yield suggestions for improving
     internal processes, which can be used in subsequent projects. at group level, the analysis focuses on
     deviations between the calculated and the expected or realized contract margin.

     compliance
     compliance – which is defined as measures to ensure adherence to legal, statutory, and internal
     requirements, as well as their observance by group companies – is a key management and supervisory
     task at gea group. for this purpose, the company established a compliance organization some years
     ago. this is headed by the chief compliance officer, who reports in this function to the supervisory
     board’s audit committee. the chief compliance officer is assisted by the corporate compliance officer.
     furthermore, a segment compliance officer has been appointed for each segment and a company
     compliance manager for each operating company. a compliance committee was also established to
     advise the chief compliance officer. gea group’s extensive compliance program is rounded off by
     classroom and web-based training sessions for the group employees responsible for compliance, as well
     as by the integrity system, which was introduced throughout the gea group worldwide in 2014 and
     which allows possible compliance violations or infringements of the gea codes of conduct – social
     responsibility principles – to be reported. further information on compliance can be found in the
     corporate governance report (see page 61 ff.).




22                                          gea group annual report 2014

              combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




remuneration system and financial performance management
changes in the key value drivers are also reflected in the remuneration of employees not covered by
collective agreements. variable salary components dependent on company performance are determined
on the basis of the cash flow driver margin and roce. in addition, performance-related remuneration
depends on the achievement of personal goals, of which at least one must be measurable in financial
terms. a further remuneration component is based on gea’s share price performance in relation to the
benchmark index, the stoxx® europe tmi industrial engineering (tmi ie).

research and development
in today’s global markets, an engineering corporation such as gea needs to show an enduring
commitment to permanently enhancing its own processes and technologies. it is this culture of
innovation that helps secure its continued commercial success. in addition to pursuing its own
intensive research and development activities, the group also supports cooperative research projects
with its customers and suppliers.
gea’s focus on product leadership is underpinned by the fact that almost 40 percent of the company’s
employees are engineers or perform engineering-related roles. over 800 of these employees are
assigned to product development. as a result of their work, gea companies filed applications for a
total of 109 (previous year: 77) new patent families in the past fiscal year.
the culture of innovation at gea can also be seen from its various innovation competitions. the gea
innovation contest, which has been running with great success for a number of years now, provides a
showcase for development projects that are potentially less than twelve months away from market
ability. the winners of various pre-selection competitions get to present their projects during one day
of the annual international meeting of the group’s senior managers. the three winners that present the
most promising developments in terms of market opportunities, earnings potential, chances of
realization, and level of innovation receive total prize money of eur 1.5 million to boost their
development budgets.

                                          the overall winner in 2014 was a freeze concentration
                                          system that offers customers significantly lower acquisition
                                          and operating costs and cuts space requirements by half.
                                          this was achieved by switching from a batch process to a
                                          patent-pending continuous process in which fruit juice,
                                          coffee, milk, or delicate enzyme solutions are cooled until ice
                                          forms. the crystallizer ensures that an optimum amount of
                                          larger ice crystals is formed. this suspension is then
                                          separated into the concentrate and the ice in the downstream
                                          wash column. fruit juice concentrate can be transported
                                          more cheaply and in a more environmentally friendly
                                          manner than the fruit juice itself. coffee concentrate is
                                          processed into instant coffee, while enyzme concentrates
                                          can be used, for example, to manufacture drugs. the
                                          competing alternatives to freeze concentration are vacuum
                                          evaporation and reverse osmosis. since the temperatures
                                          used in these processes are only slightly higher, very little




                                     gea group annual report 2014                                           23

                    combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




     damage is done to vitamins, for example. however, with vacuum evaporation in particular, many
     volatile aromas are lost with the water and cannot all be retrieved. second prize went to the gea
     multidrum. this piece of equipment can be used to produce “home made style” breadcrumb coatings,
     for example. the advantages of the gea multidrum are that it provides a significantly higher degree
     of automation, uses less flour, saves space, and produces higher-quality results. an optimized and
     patented valve for homogenizers took third place. these valves enable nanocellulose to be produced
     for a wide range of industrial applications at a lower pressure and higher throughput.

     the gea development contest is designed to promote promising new product ideas that are at an
     early stage of the development process and that still require up to three years until market launch. this
     competition, too, involves group-wide presentations and offers prize money of varying amounts.
     in 2014, the first prize went to a simplified biochemical process for producing pharmaceuticals. the
     process requires far fewer steps for separating the active ingredients dissolved in the aqueous
     suspension from the insoluble cells that produced it. the benefits for the customer are reduced
     downtime and smaller space requirements. fewer components also mean less capital expenditure for
     the customer and improved competitiveness for gea. the entry that won third prize – a solution for
     filling plastic bottles – has the same aim: to consolidate steps in the process. second prize went to an
     easy-to-implement energy saving method for compressors operating under partial load.

     the gea investment fund showcases new product ideas that are primarily implemented through
     group-wide cooperation or in collaboration with external companies and organizations. one of these
     ideas demonstrates a way to dispose of saline mine waste water in an environmentally friendly and
     energy-saving manner. the water is separated using reverse osmosis followed by freeze concentration.
     it is then so clean that it does not require further purification. a large proportion of the salts crystallize
     out in such a pure form that they are recyclable. the remaining waste material is returned to the mine
     after it has been dried at low temperature. although gea’s segments are already using all of the
     necessary technologies for this in food production today, the challenge lies in drastically increasing
     capacity while reducing capital expenditure.

                                                 many new products were also launched on the market in
                                                the past fiscal year as a result of this intensive research and
                                                development work. at the chillventa trade fair alone, gea
                                                presented a variety of new products. one of these
                                                innovations was an ice generator which was designed to
                                                produce hygienic flake ice for food processing. the generator
                                                is the first model in a premium series based on new, patented
                                                technology. the largest open compressor – which offers
                                                currently unrivalled output and a cubic capacity of 553 m³/h
     – was also presented. this is revolutionizing the commercial and industrial compressor markets, as it
     can be used in both. in addition, visitors to the exhibition could discover a chiller that sets new
     standards in terms of durability, space savings, and energy efficiency (see page 119).




24                                           gea group annual report 2014

                     combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




in 2014, gea again successfully took part in external competitions organized by industry associations,
customers, and trade fairs. for example, the “dairynet by gea” software and the “gea conductive
cooling” cow cooling system were each awarded silver medals for innovation by deutsche landwirtschafts-
gesellschaft (dlg – german agricultural society) and “innovation of the year 2015” prizes by german
agricultural publishing house deutscher landwirtschaftsverlag. another example is gea’s “ncharge™
hygiene production system,” which received the dairy herd management innovation award at the
world dairy expo in the u.s.a.

in fiscal year 2014, direct expenses for research and development (r&d) increased to eur 77.7 million.
this represents a rise of 5.1 percent on the prior-year amount of eur 73.9 million. these figures also
include refunded expenses (contract costs), which are reported in the production costs and which
totaled eur 9.6 million (previous year: eur 11.4 million). the r&d ratio remained unchanged at
1.7 percent of revenue. however, a large proportion of the development costs for processing plant
prototypes are not included in these figures. amortization of capitalized development projects totaled
to eur 11.7 million in the reporting period (previous year: eur 8.5 million). capitalized development
costs summed up to 0.7 percent of revenue (previous year: 0.5 percent). cash disbursements for
research and development amounted to eur 96.1 million, compared with eur 84.2 million in the
previous year. this corresponds to an increase of 14 percent.

research and development (r&d) expenses                                                             change
(eur million)                                                                   2014         2013     in %
refunded expenses (contract costs)                                               9.6         11.4    –16.3
non-refunded r&d expenses                                                       68.1         62.5      9.0
total r&d expenses                                                              77.7         73.9      5.1
r&d ratio (as % of revenue)                                                      1.7          1.7        –


total r&d cash disbursements                                                    96.1         84.2     14.1
r&d ratio (as % of revenue)                                                      2.1          1.9        –




                                            gea group annual report 2014                                     25

                          combined group management report / report on economic position




     report on economic position
     gea in fiscal year 2014
     the forecast for fiscal year 2014 assumed that demand in gea’s sales markets would moderately exceed
     the high levels seen in 2013. contrary to this assumption, the performance of important regional sales
     markets was worse than forecast at the beginning of 2014. equally, in its world economic outlook and
     associated updates, the international monetary fund (imf) was forced to revise its global economic
     growth assumptions downwards three times during the year (april, july, and october), after it had
     increased its forecast for 2014 in january (see page 27f.). growth was slower than initially forecast in
     both the industrialized nations and the emerging markets – i.e. in all of gea’s key markets (see imf,
     world economic outlook, january 2015 update).


     growth rate projections


                            january         april         july        october        january        actual
                              2014          2014          2014         2014            2015          2014


       outlook of imf      3.7%          3.6%           3.4%         3.3%                         3.3%


          outlook          moderate
                                                                                   ~ 5%           5.6%
         gea group          growth




     gea’s forecast for fiscal year 2014 in the last annual report assumed that there would be no slowdown
     in global economic growth, at unchanged exchange rates against 2013, and did not take into account
     acquisition and nonrecurring effects. in january 2014, the imf had forecast global economic growth of
     3.7 percent. over the course of the year, it successively reduced this prediction – one of the key factors
     on which gea’s growth forecast was based – to 3.3 percent (october 2014). this figure has been
     confirmed by the imf’s preliminary figures for 2014. despite the weaker-than-expected global economic
     growth, gea’s organic revenue rose by 5.6 percent, falling within the long-term target range of between
     4 and 6 percent. by contrast, the original outlook had predicted only moderate revenue growth for
     fiscal year 2014.

     the gea farm technologies segment exceeded our growth expectations by a considerable margin.
     the anticipated stronger growth in the gea process engineering segment could not be materialized
     due to the fact that several major projects were initially postponed by customers. the segment
     nevertheless posted a new record revenue figure of eur 1,852.1 million.

     the 2013 annual report forecast operating ebitda of between eur 550 million and eur 590 million
     for 2014. at eur 590.7 million, ebitda in fact slightly exceeded the defined target range. the figure
     for operating ebitda already includes eur 5.4 million in burden for exchange rate effects. as expected,
     all segments contributed to the increase in earnings.




26                                         gea group annual report 2014

                                     combined group management report / report on economic position




a target of between 9.0 and 9.5 percent was set for the cash flow driver margin in 2014. at 9.0 percent,
this expectation was also met. adjusted for nonrecurring expenses of eur 50.7 million, the cash flow
driver margin would have amounted to 10.1 percent.

on april 16, 2014, gea group aktiengesellschaft’s annual general meeting approved the proposal by
the supervisory board and executive board to pay a dividend of eur 0.60 per share for fiscal year
2013, up from eur 0.55 per share. this means that the distribution to the shareholders for 2013 was in
line with the then-current target of one-third of the group’s earnings.


gea achieved fy 2014 targets
(eur million)

  revenue                                                operating ebitda                        cash-flow-driver-margin

          ∆ + 5.6 %                                            ∆ + 12.4 %
                                                                                                    9.6 %         9.0 %
                                    - 46                                          -5




                        4,561                  4,516                        596         591                        405
  4,320                                                  530                                         414




fy 2013 organic fy 2014 adjust- fy 2014                fy 2013 organic fy 2014 adjust- fy 2014     fy 2013       fy 2014
        change adjusted ment reported                          change adjusted ment reported



    target organic sales                                 target operating ebitda:                target cash-flow-driver-
 growth*: approximately 5%                                 eur 550 - 590 million                   margin: 9.0% - 9.5%



*) based on raised revenue outlook of january 2015




macroeconomic environment
as a global engineering company, gea considers growth in gross domestic product (gdp) and hence
the imf’s associated assessments to be the key benchmark for its own development. the objective is
for gea’s growth to exceed that of the global economy.

according to the imf’s preliminary estimates, gdp growth in the past year remained unchanged as
against 2013, at 3.3 percent. this means that growth was considerably below the 3.7 percent figure
originally forecast at the beginning of 2014. on this basis, gea had also been expecting higher
economic growth at the beginning of 2014.

the primary reason for this lower-than-forecast growth is the global economy’s performance in the
first half of 2014, which fell short of expectations. the weak economic growth, particularly in the
united states and in important emerging markets, the continuing crisis between russia and ukraine
and the associated sanctions, and the situation in the middle east had a greater impact on the global




                                                         gea group annual report 2014                                       27

                          combined group management report / report on economic position




     economy than had previously been expected. although economic growth was boosted to some extent
     by the sharp drop in oil prices as the year progressed, this also had a negative impact due to the
     dramatic slump in the income of oil exporting countries and radical investments cuts.

     specifically, the imf has produced a preliminary growth rate of 1.8 percent for the industrialized
     nations in 2014, after 1.3 percent in the previous year. the eurozone economy returned to positive
     territory with growth of 0.8 percent after its earlier slight recession, which lasted until 2013
     (–0.5 percent). growth in the u.s.a. is thought to have increased to 2.4 percent, up from 2.2 percent in
     2013. in germany, the imf’s experts are predicting economic growth of 1.5 percent, following
     0.2 percent growth in 2013.

     the imf expects that economic growth in the emerging markets continued to slow to 4.4 percent in
     2014 compared with 4.7 percent in the previous year. the lower rates of economic growth in russia
     and china played a particularly important role here, since these countries provide significant
     momentum for their neighbors. growth in russia slowed from 1.3 percent to 0.6 percent in 2014.
     china’s economy is expected to have grown by just 7.4 percent in the past year, following 7.8 percent
     in 2013. this would be the country’s lowest growth rate for 24 years. economic growth is also thought
     to have slowed in latin america, declining to 1.2 percent from 2.8 percent in 2013.

     significant changes

     combination of the gea food solutions and
     gea mechanical equipment segments
     in january 2014, the executive board of gea group aktiengesellschaft decided to combine the gea
     food solutions and gea mechanical equipment segments, effective as of the beginning of fiscal year
     2014. this means that the group has been divided into four operating segments since 2014. based on
     the above decision, the two segments have been reported as a single segment, gea mechanical equipment,
     since the financial report for the first quarter of 2014. the prior-period figures were adjusted to reflect
     the new reporting structure.

     sale of the gea heat exchangers segment to triton
     on april 16, 2014, gea sold the gea heat exchangers segment to funds advised by triton. the
     transaction closed successfully on october 31, 2014, after approval by the relevant antitrust authorities.
     the sale is based on an enterprise value of around eur 1.3 billion.

     as part of its gea 2020 corporate strategy, the company had previously decided to sharpen its portfolio
     focus in order to further strengthen its position as a leading systems provider for the food industry
     and other sophisticated process industries. due to the lack of group-wide synergies, gea announced
     its decision to fully divest the segment on june 20, 2013.

     the triton funds invest in medium-sized businesses in northern europe, where the firm focuses on
     three core areas: industry, services, and consumer goods/healthcare. at the time of the sale in april
     2014, triton’s portfolio covered 25 companies with combined sales of approximately eur 13 billion
     and more than 55,000 employees.




28                                          gea group annual report 2014

                                 combined group management report / report on economic position




new group structure
in the context of its “fit for 2020” initiative, the executive board of gea resolved to introduce a new
group structure on august 20, 2014. this initiative – part of the strategic realignment of the company –
aims to ensure an optimized organizational setup while reducing the group’s structural complexity. as
a result it is expected to lead to significant cost reductions and foster further growth.




               current organization                                                    future organization

                               board                                                               board

        ft        me           rt       pe       headquarter                  equipment        solutions      global
                                                                                 ba 2            ba 2          corp.        ssc 1
                                                                                                              center

    support support support support

    regions      regions     regions   regions                                     regions / countries



    •    stand-alone effective segments driving own                           •   bundling of segments into two bas 2 according
         technologies and market approaches                                       to business model logic
    •    limited group perspective and role of the                            •   “one gea” in countries as a platform for growth
         corporate center                                                         within regions / countries
    •    each segment with individual go-to-market                            •   strengthening global group functions
         concepts and regional footprint
                                                                              •   increased efficiency & standardization of
    1) ssc = shared service center                                                support functions due to streamlining & ssc1
    2) ba = business area




in the course of 2015, gea will bundle the development and manufacturing of products and the supply
of process solutions into two new business areas, “equipment” and “solutions”, and report on them
accordingly. the current segments will be integrated into these two business areas.

all customer-oriented sales and service activities are to be combined on a local level into a single
organization per country. merging the current large number of sales and service companies will
strengthen local competencies, realize existing potential synergy even more efficiently, and raise
awareness of the common brand gea in the market. anchoring an independent regional perspective
in sales and services management is also designed to accelerate the systematic opening of new growth
opportunities, especially in emerging markets.

in addition, administrative functions will be streamlined, more strongly standardized, and managed
considerably more centrally in the future, which is designed to ensure uniform high process standards
globally as well as cost savings. the global corporate center will be the central port of call for all
ancillary management and support functions, which so far have mostly been organized locally at the
operating units. regional shared service centers will take care of the implementation of standardized
administrative processes, thus reducing the workload for the operating units.




                                                       gea group annual report 2014                                                 29

                          combined group management report / report on economic position




     the aim of “fit for 2020” is to achieve annual cost savings of at least eur 100 million by the end of
     2017. according to initial estimates, cash-relevant nonrecurring expenditures until then are likely to be
     incurred in approximately the same amount. based on today’s business volume, the implementation
     measures will include worldwide workforce reductions of approx. 1,000 full-time equivalents over the
     next 2–3 years. however, it will only be possible to detail the exact number of adjustments, the timing,
     and the affected locations once further analysis has been carried out.

     a corresponding project was promptly set up following the resolution by the executive board in
     august 2014. experienced managers from gea’s various corporate and specialist departments formed
     more than 20 design teams, which were tasked with developing proposals for gea’s new structure. the
     goal, to be achieved by the beginning of 2015, was to map out gea’s new organizational structure in
     detail, to describe standardized processes throughout the group, and to define responsibilities.
     this phase of the project was successfully completed in january 2015 (see page 60).

     acquisitions
     gea acquired all shares of scan vibro on september 14, 2014. this relatively small danish company
     manufactures innovative powder transport systems for a range of food sector applications where hygiene
     requirements are particularly stringent.

     in addition, on october 6, 2014, gea acquired all shares of dutch company de klokslag, which is one of the
     leading european manufacturers of large-scale equipment for semi-hard cheese production. the
     acquisition means that gea is now a full-line provider of process solutions in this growing field. gea is
     well acquainted with de klokslag’s product portfolio since the two companies have worked together on a
     number of occasions over the past few years. the transaction closed in january 2015, meaning that de
     klokslag was not included in consolidation in fiscal year 2014 (see page 60).

     in total, these two companies employ approximately 160 staff and generated around eur 40 million
     in 2013.

     course of business
     the following explanation of the group’s course of business relates initially to its continuing operations,
     which are the group’s four operating segments. the performance of the gea heat exchangers segment
     is presented separately in the section relating to discontinued operations (see page 50ff.).

     the quarterly information contained in this management report is sourced from quarterly reports that
     were not reviewed by an auditor. all amounts have been rounded using standard rounding rules.
     adding together individual amounts may therefore result in rounding differences in certain cases.

     order intake
     the group’s order intake declined by 2.3 percent to eur 4,519.6 million in full-year 2014 (previous year:
     eur 4,627.9 million). after adjustment for the negative impact of exchange rate changes (1.0 percent) and
     marginal acquisition effects, the organic decline was just 1.4 percent. this decline of approximately
     eur 108 million was attributable in particular to large orders of more than eur 5 million. by contrast, the
     basic business (orders of less than eur 1 million) saw considerable growth in all segments, with an
     increase of 7.8 percent for gea.




30                                          gea group annual report 2014

                                    combined group management report / report on economic position




order intake for the past 5 years                                                                                      4,627.9
(eur million)                                                                        4,425.4                                                      4,519.6

                                                    3,986.7


                  3,100.3




                    2010                             2011                              2012                              2013                      2014




the performance of the gea farm technologies and gea refrigeration technologies segments is
worthy of particular note. both generated double-digit organic growth rates and set new records for
order intake. order intake in the gea refrigeration technologies segment exceeded eur 800 million
for the first time.

order intake                                                                                                                                                change
(eur million)                                                                                                                       2014         2013 *       in %
gea farm technologies                                                                                                               659.0        596.7        10.4
gea mechanical equipment                                                                                                        1,349.8      1,368.2          –1.3
gea process engineering                                                                                                         1,835.7      2,061.0         –10.9
gea refrigeration technologies                                                                                                      804.7        726.3        10.8
total                                                                                                                           4,649.3      4,752.2          –2.2
consolidation/other                                                                                                             –129.7       –124.3           –4.3
gea group                                                                                                                       4,519.6      4,627.9          –2.3

*) amounts adjusted due to the combination of gea food solutions and gea mechanical equipment (see financial report q1 2014)




the overall decline in order intake was primarily due to the dairy processing and beverages customer
industries. in contrast, the share accounted for by the dairy farming customer industry rose from
under 13 percent to over 14 percent, driven by the excellent performance of the gea farm technologies
segment. within the other customer industries, there was no growth in either the oil and gas or the
power generation industries. however, this was more than offset by the environment sector and in
particular the marine sector.


order intake by customer industries
(%, average last 12 months)


                                        dairy farming                                                               14

               food /                dairy processing                                                                                                 25
           beverages
                                                                                                                                                            72
                                                     food                                                                                   22
                                              beverages                                                  11
                                  pharma / chemical                                                          12
                 others
                                     other industries                                                                          16
                                                                                                                                                            28




                                                                   gea group annual report 2014                                                                      31

                                      combined group management report / report on economic position




     at a regional level, the decrease in order intake mainly occurred in western europe and in the asia/
     pacific region. by contrast, the growth regions were north america, eastern europe, and africa, with
     double-digit increases being seen in the latter two areas.

     the largest major orders worth over eur 30 million were won by the gea process engineering
     segment in the form of three dairy orders for customers in belgium, poland, and new zealand, as well
     as a beverages project in africa. all in all, their value amounted to approximately eur 225 million. in
     the comparable prior-year period, seven major orders were received for over eur 368 million.


     order intake gea group eur 4,519.6 million (previous year eur 4,627.9 million)
     by sector (average last 12 months)

     120 %



     110 %



     100 %



       90 %



       80 %



       70 %
                          dec. 13                      mar. 14                 jun. 14               sep. 14    dec. 14

              dairy farming               dairy processing         food      beverages      pharma / chemical
              other industries             gea group total

     by region (%, average last 12 months)

     western europe       35.2 (36.4)
     asia / pacific       24.6 (26.5)
     north america        16.8 (15.1)
     eastern europe         9.5   (8.4)
     latin america          6.0   (6.5)
     middle east            3.0   (3.4)
                                                                                                                    2014
     africa                 4.9   (3.7)                                                                             2013




32                                                               gea group annual report 2014

                                    combined group management report / report on economic position




order backlog
the order backlog rose slightly by eur 22.1 million to eur 2,037.6 million compared with
december 31, 2013 (eur 2,015.5 million). this was due in particular to exchange rate changes amounting
to eur 62.6 million.

expressed in terms of the order intake for the fiscal year, the order backlog represents a range of 5.4
months (previous year: 5.2 months). in line with the different types of business performed in the
different segments, the order backlog ranges from 1.6 months in the gea farm technologies segment
up to 8.5 months in the gea process engineering segment.

order backlog                                                                                                                                 change      change
(eur million)                                                                                                12/31/2014        12/31/2013 *     in %    (absolute)
gea farm technologies                                                                                                 87.0            85.6        1.6         1.4
gea mechanical equipment                                                                                            394.9            428.4       –7.8       –33.5
gea process engineering                                                                                           1,293.4          1,290.5        0.2         2.9
gea refrigeration technologies                                                                                      281.4            229.5      22.6         51.8
total                                                                                                             2,056.8          2,034.1        1.1        22.7
consolidation/other                                                                                                 –19.2            –18.6       –2.9        –0.5
gea group                                                                                                         2,037.6          2,015.5        1.1        22.1

*) amounts adjusted due to the combination of gea food solutions and gea mechanical equipment (see financial report q1 2014)




revenue
in general, the same regional and sector-specific trends apply to revenue as to order intake, although
with different time lags. however, revenue is less volatile than order intake.

in full-year 2014, group revenue increased by 4.5 percent to eur 4,515.7 million (previous year:
eur 4,320.0 million), at a level with order intake. record revenue was generated again despite the
effect of exchange rate changes of –1.1 percent. since acquisitions had no material impact on gea’s
revenue, it rose organically by 5.6 percent year-on-year. a notable feature is that all segments
contributed to this growth with record revenue figures. equally, they were all responsible for the
growth in the share of revenue attributable to the service business, which increased from 26.7 percent
to 27.1 percent. organic growth in this business amounted to 7.6 percent in the reporting period.



revenue for the past 5 years
(eur million)                                                                                                                                 4,515.7
                                                                                                                       4,320.0
                                                                                     4,142.3
                                                    3,828.3


                   2,963.1




                    2010                              2011                             2012                             2013                   2014




                                                                   gea group annual report 2014                                                                      33

                                         combined group management report / report on economic position




     the book-to-bill ratio, the ratio of order intake to revenue, was precisely 1.0 in 2014.

     revenue                                                                                                                                                   change
     (eur million)                                                                                                                       2014         2013 *     in %
     gea farm technologies                                                                                                               650.0        577.7      12.5
     gea mechanical equipment                                                                                                        1,380.4      1,327.8         4.0
     gea process engineering                                                                                                         1,852.1      1,798.0         3.0
     gea refrigeration technologies                                                                                                      763.7        736.6       3.7
     total                                                                                                                           4,646.3      4,440.0         4.6
     consolidation/other                                                                                                             –130.6       –120.0         –8.8
     gea group                                                                                                                       4,515.7      4,320.0         4.5

     *) amounts adjusted due to the combination of gea food solutions and gea mechanical equipment (see financial report q1 2014)




     gea’s revenue growth was largely driven by the food and beverages end market. its share of revenue
     amounted to 72 percent in the reporting period, with the dairy farming and dairy processing customer
     industries growing at an above-average rate. revenue declined in the pharma/chemical end market
     due to the weak chemical market. revenue growth in the other industries category was largely driven
     by the oil and gas and marine customer industries.



     revenue by customer industries
     (%, average last 12 months)


                                             dairy farming                                                               14

                    food /                dairy processing                                                                                              24
                beverages                                  food                                                                                  22
                                                                                                                                                               72
                                                   beverages                                                      12
                                       pharma / chemical                                                          12
                      others
                                          other industries                                                                          16
                                                                                                                                                               28



     by far the strongest growth region in 2014 was western europe (up 12.6 percent), followed by north
     america (6.1 percent). revenue was down year-on-year in the middle east, latin america, and africa
     regions as of year-end 2014. the share of revenue accounted for by german customers continued to
     rise, from 8.5 percent to 9.1 percent. as in the previous year, the u.s.a. was the country with the
     strongest sales, accounting for 15.9 percent (previous year: 15.7 percent), followed by china at
     9.4 percent (previous year: 10.0 percent).




34                                                                     gea group annual report 2014

                                 combined group management report / report on economic position




gea group revenue eur 4,515.7 million (previous year eur 4,320.0 million)
by sector (average last 12 months)

120 %



110 %



100 %



  90 %



  80 %



  70 %
                     dec. 13                      mar. 14                 jun. 14              sep. 14    dec. 14

         dairy farming               dairy processing         food      beverages     pharma / chemical
         other industries             gea group total

by region (%, average last 12 months)

western europe       36.8 (34.1)
asia / pacific       25.0 (25.4)
north america        17.2 (16.9)
eastern europe         8.3   (8.5)
latin america          6.0   (6.7)
middle east            3.4   (4.6)
                                                                                                              2014
africa                 3.3   (3.8)                                                                            2013




                                                            gea group annual report 2014                             35

                                    combined group management report / report on economic position




     gea farm technologies segment
     the trends affecting revenue in the gea farm technologies segment are largely the same as those
     governing order intake, as the order backlog usually amounts to only 6 to 8 weeks’ revenues. adjusted
     for the effect of exchange rate changes of –2.9 percent, organic growth amounted to an impressive
     15.5 percent in the past fiscal year. this is by far the highest figure for all segments. at eur 650.0 million,
     revenue in the gea farm technologies segment exceeded the eur 600 million mark for the first time.
     as was the case with total revenue, the service business recorded very strong organic growth of
     17.8 percent in the reporting period, with its share of total revenue amounting to 41.4 percent (previous
     year: 40.7 percent).

     the segment operates almost exclusively in the dairy industry, and revenue in 2014 was focused on
     western europe (38 percent) and north america (35 percent). in addition, the latin america and
     asia/pacific regions recorded above-average growth.


     gea farm technologies revenue eur 650.0 million (previous year eur 577.7 million)
     by sector (average last 12 months, only external business)

     120 %



     110 %



     100 %



       90 %



       80 %



       70 %
                         dec. 13                      mar. 14                 jun. 14          sep. 14   dec. 14

              dairy farming             gea group total


     by region (%, average last 12 months)

     western europe      38.1 (38.5)
     asia / pacific      11.3 (10.8)
     north america       34.8 32.8)
     eastern europe       8.3 (10.6)
     latin america        7.2   (6.8)
     middle east          0.2   (0.4)
                                                                                                             2014
     africa               0.0   (0.0)                                                                        2013




36                                                              gea group annual report 2014

                                combined group management report / report on economic position




gea mechanical equipment segment
at eur 1,380.4 million, the gea mechanical equipment segment posted record revenue, up 4.0 percent
on the prior-year figure of eur 1,327.8 million. adjusted for the effect of exchange rate changes of –0.7
percent, organic revenue growth amounted to 4.7 percent in the past year. the service business
recorded organic growth of 6.6 percent. its share of segment revenue increased from 35.1 percent to
35.7 percent.

the segment’s key end market is the food and beverages sector, at 65 percent. intragroup deliveries to
the gea process engineering segment continued to provide significant growth momentum in this
market. within the other industries category, the environment, oil and gas, and marine customer
industries generated significant growth. eastern europe and asia/pacific were the most important
growth regions, both recording double-digit growth. at 6.4 percent, above-average growth was also
generated in north america. by contrast, revenue declined in the middle east in particular.


gea mechanical equipment revenue eur 1,380.4 million (previous year eur 1,327.8 million)
by sector (average last 12 months, 3 most important industries, only external business)

120 %



110 %



100 %



  90 %



  80 %



  70 %
                     dec. 13                  mar. 14                      jun. 14         sep. 14   dec. 14

         dairy processing           food       other industries          gea group total


by region (%, average last 12 months)

western europe       34.9 (36.1)
asia / pacific       26.6 (24.4)
north america        18.8 (18.4)
eastern europe        6.8   (5.7)
latin america         6.7   (7.8)
middle east           3.6   (5.7)
                                                                                                         2014
africa                2.5   (2.0)                                                                        2013




                                                        gea group annual report 2014                            37

                                     combined group management report / report on economic position




     gea process engineering segment
     the gea process engineering segment also hit a new record figure for revenue, at eur 1,852.1 million.
     adjusted for the effect of exchange rate changes of –0.4 percent and for marginal acquisition effects,
     organic revenue growth amounted to 3.4 percent in the past fiscal year. the service business – which
     again posted clear organic revenue growth of 7.7 percent – increased its share of total revenue to
     14.6 percent (previous year: 14.0 percent).

     the food and beverages end market grew by 4.9 percent, lifting its share of revenue to 72 percent.
     by contrast, the trend in the pharma/chemical customer industry was negative. this was more than
     offset by increases in the oil and gas customer industry.

     with a growth rate of over 26 percent, western europe was by far the strongest growth driver in 2014.
     this region’s share of revenue rose to almost 35 percent. as a result, western europe accounts for the
     largest portion of revenue, followed closely by the asia/pacific region with 33 percent.


     gea process engineering revenue eur 1.852,1 million (previous year eur 1.798,0 million)
     by sector (average last 12 months, 3 most important industries, only external business)

     120 %



     110 %



     100 %



       90 %



       80 %



       70 %
                          dec. 13                    mar. 14                    jun. 14                sep. 14   dec. 14

              dairy processing           beverages        pharma / chemical          gea group total


     by region (%, average last 12 months)

     western europe       34.9 (28.5)
     asia / pacific       32.8 (34.6)
     north america        10.8 (12.8)
     eastern europe        7.6   (7.8)
     latin america         6.6   (7.9)
     middle east           3.7   (4.2)
                                                                                                                     2014
     africa                3.5   (4.2)                                                                               2013




38                                                             gea group annual report 2014

                              combined group management report / report on economic position




gea refrigeration technologies segment
the gea refrigeration technologies segment also posted a new record revenue figure, at eur 763.7 million.
adjusted for the effect of exchange rate changes of –1.7 percent, organic growth was a healthy
5.4 percent. service revenue recorded above-average organic growth of 8.1 percent, increasing its share
of total revenue to 28.1 percent (previous year: 27.1 percent).

while the revenue accounted for by the food and beverages end markets and by other industries
increased by 3.4 percent and 7.2 percent respectively, the pharma/chemical customer industry saw a
declining trend. the most important growth regions were north america (up 27.4 percent) and
western europe (up 8.9 percent).


gea refrigeration technologies revenue eur 763.7 million (previous year eur 736.6 million)
by sector (average last 12 months, 3 most important industries, only external business)

120 %



110 %



100 %



  90 %



  80 %



  70 %
                  dec. 13                     mar. 14                      jun. 14          sep. 14   dec. 14

         food        pharma / chemical          other industries          gea group total


by region (%, average last 12 months)

western europe    43,4 (41,3)
asia / pacific    14,4 (15,5)
north america     15,5 (12,6)
eastern europe    12,7 (13,0)
latin america       2,4   (1,9)
middle east         4,8   (7,3)
                                                                                                          2014
africa              6,8   (8,4)                                                                           2013




                                                        gea group annual report 2014                             39

                                    combined group management report / report on economic position




     results of operations, financial position, and net assets

     results of operations
     gea remains committed to its policy of consciously selecting orders on the basis of their price quality
     and contract terms. this is reflected in the multi-stage approval process for major customer projects.

     the gross margin amounted to 32.1 percent in full-year 2014, up 55 basis points year-on-year.

     the key operating earnings figures for 2014 were adjusted for nonrecurring items in the amount of
     eur 50.7 million (previous year: eur 14.6 million). these items are attributable to strategic projects
     (eur 36.4 million, compared with the prior-year figure of eur 8.0 million), various restructuring and
     capacity adjustment measures in the segments (eur 11.7 million, compared with the prior-year figure of
     eur 0.0 million), and offsetting income from the remeasurement of non-current provisions
     (eur 1.3 million, compared with the prior-year figure of eur 0.0 million). in addition, management fees
     and trademark fees previously charged to gea heat exchangers now have to be allocated to the
     continuing operations, including the holding company, in accordance with ifrss. these fees amounted
     to eur 3.9 million in the fiscal year (previous year: eur 6.6 million; see page 213 f.). other nonrecurring
     expenses relating to the sale of the gea heat exchangers segment were reported in profit from
     discontinued operations (see page 50 ff.).

     whenever operating profit is referred to in the following, this relates on the one hand to adjustments
     for purchase price allocation effects that were determined for all material past acquisitions. on the
     other, adjustment is made for the nonrecurring items reported and the allocation of management and
     trademark fees in accordance with ifrss.

     ebitda amounted to eur 539.9 million in fiscal year 2014, up 4.8 percent on the prior-year figure of
     eur 515.2 million. this corresponds to an ebitda margin of 12.0 percent (previous year: 11.9 percent).
     adjusted for the nonrecurring items in the amount of eur 50.7 million, as mentioned above, operating
     ebitda amounted to eur 590.7 million. this is eur 60.6 million higher than the prior-year figure of
     eur 530.1 million, which was adjusted for nonrecurring items of eur 14.6 million. the figure for
     operating ebitda already contains eur 5.4 million in adjustments for negative exchange rate effects.
     as a result, the operating ebitda margin improved further, growing by a good 80 basis points to
     13.1 percent of revenue.


     operating ebitda margin and revenue development for the past 5 years
     (eur million)

                                                                                                     13.1 %
                                                                12.3 %                     12.3 %
                                                                              11.9 %

                                                   10.5 %




                                                                              4,142.3      4,320.0   4,515.7
                                                                3,828.3
                                                   2,963.1


          revenue
          operating ebitda margin

                                                    2010         2011          2012         2013      2014




40                                                   gea group annual report 2014

                                    combined group management report / report on economic position




gea farm technologies segment
operating ebitda in the gea farm technologies segment increased by over 30 percent to
eur 74.5 million in fiscal year 2014 (previous year: eur 56.9 million). the operating ebitda margin
improved by more than 160 basis points to 11.5 percent. the primary reason for this impressive
performance was the high capacity utilization due to the revenue growth in the reporting period.

gea mechanical equipment segment
the gea mechanical equipment segment’s operating ebitda rose from eur 214.7 million to
eur 231.6 million in the reporting period. the operating ebitda margin also increased again, growing
by 60 basis points from 16.2 percent to 16.8 percent. the negative impact of the shift in the product mix
was more than offset in particular by volume effects, increases in productivity, and cost-saving
measures that were successfully implemented to reduce other operating expenses.

gea process engineering segment
the gea process engineering segment recorded a further improvement in its operating ebitda and
operating ebitda margin. operating ebitda rose from eur 203.2 million to eur 220.6 million, with
the operating ebitda margin also increasing by a good 60 basis points to 11.9 percent – a remarkable
figure for an engineering company. this earnings trend was driven in particular by the unchanged
positive market environment with higher-margin projects, as well as by the greater share contributed
by the service business. in addition, successful improvements were implemented in the supply chain,
in project management, and in relation to procurement conditions.

gea refrigeration technologies segment
in the gea refrigeration technologies segment, operating ebitda rose by more than 26 percent to
eur 89.7 million (previous year: eur 71.0 million). at 11.7 percent (previous year: 9.6 percent), the
segment posted a new record operating ebitda margin. the 210 basis point increase was the biggest
rise of any segment. the further improvement in earnings was largely due to increases in efficiency at
production plants, the clearly above-average growth of the service business, and procurement costs
savings.

the following table shows operating ebitda and the operating ebitda margin per segment:

operating ebitda/operating ebitda margin 1                                                                                                      change
(eur million)                                                                                                                  2014    2013 2     in %
gea farm technologies                                                                                                           74.5    56.9      30.9
 as % of revenue                                                                                                                11.5      9.9        –
gea mechanical equipment                                                                                                       231.6   214.7       7.9
 as % of revenue                                                                                                                16.8    16.2         –
gea process engineering                                                                                                        220.6   203.2       8.6
 as % of revenue                                                                                                                11.9    11.3         –
gea refrigeration technologies                                                                                                  89.7    71.0      26.3
 as % of revenue                                                                                                                11.7      9.6        –
total                                                                                                                          616.3   545.8      12.9
 as % of revenue                                                                                                                13.3    12.3         –
consolidation/other                                                                                                            –25.7   –15.7     –63.4
gea group                                                                                                                      590.7   530.1      11.4
 as % of revenue                                                                                                                13.1    12.3         –

1) before effects of purchase price allocations and before one-offs (see page 212 f.)
2) amounts adjusted due to the combination of gea food solutions and gea mechanical equipment (see financial report q1 2014)




                                                                   gea group annual report 2014                                                          41

                                            combined group management report / report on economic position




     the following table shows the reconciliation of ebitda before purchase price allocation and
     nonrecurring items (operating ebitda) through ebit before purchase price allocation and
     nonrecurring items (operating ebit) to ebit:

     reconciliation of operating ebitda to ebit                                                                                                       change
     (eur million)                                                                                                                   2014     2013      in %
     operating ebitda *                                                                                                             590.7    530.1      11.4
     depreciation of property, plant, and equipment, investment property, and amortization of
     intangible assets                                                                                                               –77.3   –71.0      –8.8
     impairment losses on property, plant, and equipment, investment property, intangible assets,
     and goodwill                                                                                                                      0.1       –         –
     other impairment losses and reversals of impairment losses                                                                         –     –0.3         –
     operating ebit *                                                                                                               513.5    458.8      11.9
     depreciation and amortization on capitalization of purchase price allocation                                                    –23.1   –23.9       3.5
     impairment losses on capitalization of purchase price allocation                                                                  0.1    –0.4         –
     realization of step-up amounts on inventories                                                                                      –     –0.3         –
     one-offs                                                                                                                        –50.7   –14.6    < -100
     ebit                                                                                                                           439.9    419.6       4.8

     *) before effects of purchase price allocations from revalued assets and liabilities and before one-offs (see page 212 f.)




     the reconciliation of ebitda to ebit is as follows:

     reconciliation of ebitda to ebit                                                                                                                 change
     (eur million)                                                                                                                   2014     2013      in %
     ebitda                                                                                                                         539.9    515.2       4.8
     depreciation of impairment losses on property, plant, and equipment, investment property, and
     amortization of and impairment losses on intangible assets and goodwill, as reported in the
     statement of changes in non-current assets                                                                                     –100.1   –95.3      –5.0
     other impairment losses and reversals of impairment losses                                                                         –     –0.3         –
     ebit                                                                                                                           439.9    419.6       4.8



     the following table shows operating ebit and the corresponding operating ebit margin per segment:

     operating ebit/operating ebit margin 1                                                                                                           change
     (eur million)                                                                                                                   2014    2013 2     in %
     gea farm technologies                                                                                                            62.0    44.6      39.2
      as % of revenue                                                                                                                  9.5      7.7        –
     gea mechanical equipment                                                                                                       197.7    187.6       5.4
      as % of revenue                                                                                                                 14.3    14.1         –
     gea process engineering                                                                                                        206.0    188.3       9.4
      as % of revenue                                                                                                                 11.1    10.5         –
     gea refrigeration technologies                                                                                                   79.8    61.5      29.7
      as % of revenue                                                                                                                 10.5      8.4        –
     total                                                                                                                          545.5    482.0      13.2
      as % of revenue                                                                                                                 11.7    10.9         –
     consolidation/other                                                                                                             –32.0   –23.2     –38.0
     gea group                                                                                                                      513.5    458.8      11.9
      as % of revenue                                                                                                                 11.4    10.6         –

     1) before effects of purchase price allocations and before one-offs (see page 212 f.)
     2) amounts adjusted due to the combination of gea food solutions and gea mechanical equipment (see financial report q1 2014)




     ebit amounted to eur 439.9 million in the past fiscal year, compared with eur 419.6 million in the
     previous year. at 9.7 percent, the ebit margin remained stable year-on-year. operating ebit, which is
     adjusted for purchase price allocation effects of eur 22.9 million (previous year: eur 24.6 million) and
     nonrecurring items, increased by 11.9 percent to eur 513.5 million (previous year: eur 458.8 million).
     the operating ebit margin improved accordingly by 75 basis points to 11.4 percent of revenue.




42                                                                            gea group annual report 2014

                                       combined group management report / report on economic position




key figures: results of operations                                                                                         change
(eur million)                                                                                            2014      2013      in %
revenue                                                                                                4,515.7   4,320.0      4.5
operating ebitda *                                                                                      590.7     530.1      11.4
ebitda pre purchase price allocation                                                                    539.9     515.5       4.7
ebitda                                                                                                  539.9     515.2       4.8
operating ebit *                                                                                        513.5     458.8      11.9
ebit pre purchase price allocation                                                                      462.8     444.2       4.2
ebit                                                                                                    439.9     419.6       4.8
interest                                                                                                 66.0      67.5      –2.1
ebt                                                                                                     373.8     352.1       6.2
income taxes                                                                                             87.8      70.1      25.3
profit after tax from continuing operations                                                             286.0     282.0       1.4
profit/loss after tax from discontinued operations                                                       34.6      54.4     –36.3
profit for the period                                                                                   320.6     336.4      –4.7

*) before effects of purchase price allocations and before one-offs (see page 212 f.)




net interest income in the full year amounted to eur –66.0 million, roughly level with the prior-year
figure of eur –67.5 million. the negative impact of higher interest expenses for liabilities to banks
and for bonds was more than offset, especially by lower commission and fees and the lower interest
expense on the discounting of other provisions.

ebt in full-year 2014 amounted to eur 373.8 million, eur 21.7 million higher than the previous year’s
figure (eur 352.1 million). the ebt margin saw a slight improvement to 8.3 percent (previous year:
8.2 percent).

profit from discontinued operations amounted to eur 34.6 million in fiscal year 2014 (previous year:
eur 54.4 million). the gea heat exchangers segment accounted for eur 32.8 million of this amount
(previous year: eur 53.8 million). it should be noted firstly that this segment only belonged to gea for
10 months of the reporting period. secondly, the eur 41.8 million loss on disposal of the segment was
incurred in the reporting period. the profit from discontinued operations attributable to the gea heat
exchangers segment improved due to the discontinuation of depreciation and amortization as of the
date on which the segment was allocated to discontinued operations (eur 30.0 million), and
considerably lower tax effects (eur 27.4 million). further disclosures on the operating business
performance of the gea heat exchangers segment and the other companies can be found in the
chapter entitled “performance of discontinued operations” (see page 50 f.)

the income tax expense of eur 87.8 million in fiscal year 2014 (previous year: eur 70.1 million)
comprised current taxes of eur 80.7 million (previous year: eur 70.4 million) and deferred taxes of
eur 7.1 million (previous year: eur 0.3 million). the tax rate amounted to 23.5 percent (previous
year: 19.9 percent).

consolidated profit in the full year amounted to eur 320.6 million (previous year: eur 336.4 million),
of which eur 320.5 million (previous year: eur 336.0 million) is attributable to gea group
aktiengesellschaft shareholders. taking into account the unchanged average number of shares
compared with the previous year (192,495,476), this corresponds to earnings per share of eur 1.66
(previous year: eur 1.75).

in addition to holding company costs in the narrower sense, the results of operations of gea group
aktiengesellschaft are primarily driven by net investment income and net interest result. further
details are presented in the section entitled “net assets, financial position, and results of operations of
gea group aktiengesellschaft” (see page 54 ff.).




                                                                        gea group annual report 2014                                43

                                      combined group management report / report on economic position




     the executive board and supervisory board are proposing to increase the dividend from eur 0.60 to
     eur 0.70 per share. this is in line with the goal to distribute between 40 and 50 percent of consolidated
     profit to our shareholders, as announced at our capital markets day on october 13, 2014.

     financial position
     gea’s financial position saw considerable improvement, due in particular to the cash inflows from the
     sale of the gea heat exchangers segment. however, liquidity management and centralized financial
     management remain of key significance.

     the revenue generated by the sale of the gea heat exchangers segment (eur 406.8 million) was used
     for the early repayment of financial liabilities. specifically, two loans from kreditanstalt für
     wiederaufbau amounting to a total of eur 71.5 million were repaid. bonds in the amount of
     eur 125.3 million were also repurchased, and borrower’s loan notes in the amount of eur 210.0 million
     were repaid early. in addition, the first option to extend the club deal agreed in 2013 was exercised,
     which saw this credit line extended until 2019. one additional option exists to extend the credit line by
     a further year.

     gea’s cash credit lines and their utilization were as follows at the reporting date:

     gea cash credit lines incl. discontinued operations                                                     12/31/2014   12/31/2014
     (eur million)                                                                               maturity      approved       utilized
     gea bond                                                                                  april 2016          275           275
                                                                         partial repayment amounting to
                                                                               eur 100,000 thousand on
                                                                           january 14, 2015; remaining
     european investment bank                                                     portion on july 14, 2017         150           150
     borrower‘s note loan                                                               september 2017              90             90
     syndicated credit line („club deal“)                                                   august 2019            650              –
                                                                                     maximum of 1 year
     various (bilateral) credit lines including accured interests                or “until further notice“         141             14
     total                                                                                                       1,305           529



     the group’s financial management encompasses liquidity management, group financing, and the
     management of interest rate and exchange rate risks. as the group management company, gea group
     aktiengesellschaft is responsible for gea’s central financial management, which aims to reduce
     financing costs as far as possible, to optimize interest rates for financial investments, to minimize
     counterparty credit risk, to leverage economies of scale, to hedge interest rate and exchange rate risk
     exposures as effectively as possible, and to ensure that loan covenants are complied with. the goal of
     gea’s financing strategy is not only to be able to meet its payment obligations whenever they fall due,
     but also to ensure that sufficient cash reserves are always available in the form of credit lines, in
     addition to maintaining a strategic cash position. the centralized liquidity portfolio is managed
     mainly for capital preservation and risk reduction by diversifying the cash investments.

     cash flow from operating activities is the most important source of liquidity. intragroup cash pooling
     aims to limit external cash investments and borrowings to a level as low as possible. to achieve this,
     gea has established cash pooling groups in 13 countries that automatically balance the accounts of the
     participating group companies every day by crediting or debiting a target account at gea group
     aktiengesellschaft. any additional liquidity requirements are generally borrowed by group
     management, which also invests surplus liquidity. in a number of cases, however, liquidity peaks in
     individual countries cannot be reduced on a cross-border basis due to legal or tax-related reasons.




44                                                                  gea group annual report 2014

                                combined group management report / report on economic position




net debt including discontinued operations had been fully repaid as of december 31, 2014. net liquidity
amounted to eur 903.7 million as of the year-end, due in particular to the eur 1,059.3 million cash
inflow from the sale of the gea heat exchangers segment. this represents an increase of
eur 1,082.3 million as against december 31, 2013 (net debt of eur 178.6 million).

overview of net liquidity incl. discontinued operations
(eur million)                                                                                             12/31/2014       12/31/2013
cash and cash equivalents                                                                                    1,195.9           795.8
fixed deposits with a remaining period ≤ 1 year                                                                  200.0             –
securities                                                                                                        37.0           –0.0
liabilities to banks                                                                                             246.9         564.1
bonds                                                                                                            282.2         410.2
net liquidity (+)/net debt (-)                                                                                   903.7        –178.6
gearing (%)                                                                                                      –35.8            7.7



cash and cash equivalents increased to eur 1,195.9 million as of december 31, 2014, compared with
eur 795.8 million as of the end of the previous year. liabilities to banks (eur 156.4 million), from the
bond issue (eur 282.2 million, including accrued interest), and the borrower’s note loan (eur 90.5 million,
including accrued interest) amounted to a total of eur 529.1 million at the reporting date (previous year:
eur 974.3 million).

detailed information on the maturity, currency, and interest rate structure of debt financing can be found
in the notes to the consolidated financial statements (see pages 150 ff. and 187 ff.).

guarantee lines – which are mainly for contract performance, advance payments, and warranties – of
eur 1,732.3 million (december 31, 2013, excluding gea heat exchangers: eur 1,778.8 million) were
available to gea as of the reporting date, of which eur 462.1 million (december 31, 2013, excluding gea
heat exchangers: eur 454.3 million) had been utilized.

in addition to the assets recognized in its consolidated balance sheet, gea also uses non owned assets.
these are mainly assets leased or rented under operating leases. gea uses factoring programs as off-
balance-sheet financing instruments. the obligations resulting from rental and leasing obligations are
explained in section 8.2 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements (see page 206).


change in working capital (continued operations)
(eur million)

     trade receivables                                    q4 2014       946       562    -   640    444      =      424
     inventories
     trade payables                                       q3 2014      939        641    -   537   495       =       548
     advance payments received
     working capital                                      q2 2014      943        623    -   517   459       =       590


                                                          q1 2014       912       615    -   510   481       =      535


                                                          q4 2013       929       551    -   647    470      =     363




working capital from continuing operations amounted to eur 424.4 million as of december 31, 2014,
up 16.8 percent as against the previous year (eur 363.3 million). this increase is primarily attributable
to higher trade receivables and lower advance payment volumes. the ratio of average working capital
to revenue increased slightly from 11.7 percent to 12.1 percent.




                                                          gea group annual report 2014                                                  45

                                           combined group management report / report on economic position




     the key factors responsible for the change in net debt are shown in the following chart:


     change in net liquidity/net debt , including discontinued operations
     (eur million)


                                                             -178.6                           net debt incl. hx (12/31/2013)
                                                 -109.3                 elimination net cash position hx
                                                 -287.8                                       net debt excl. hx (12/31/2013)
                                                  539.9                                                               ebitda
                                                                                                        -58.9         delta working capital
                                                                                               -93.8              capex
                                                                                                                                                      ∆ + eur 324 million
                                                                              -128.7                    interest /taxes
                                                                                65.3            others
                                                                                      35.9      subtotal (12/31/2014)
                                                                                      -13.1     discontinued operations
                                                                                 -33.7         net effects from acquisitions
                                                                   -115.5                    dividend
                                  proceeds from hx-sale 1,030.11
                                         net liquidity (12/31/2014) 2 903.7

     1) net after payment of transaction costs
     2) including fixed deposits with a remaining period ≤ 1 year (eur 200 million)




     gea group aktiengesellschaft’s dividend payout in fiscal year 2014 was the highest in the company’s
     history, at eur 115.5 million (previous year: eur 105.9 million). with the number of shares unchanged,
     the 9.1 percent rise derives from the increase in the dividend per share from eur 0.55 to eur 0.60.



     dividend payments 1 for the past 5 years
     and dividend proposal                                                                                                                                        0.70
     (eur million)
                                                                                                                                              0.60
                                                                                                           0.55                 0.55


                                                                                  0.40
                                                          0.30


                                                                                                                                                                  ~135
                                                                                                                                              115.5
                                                                                                           101.1               105.9

                                                                                      73.3
           dividend proposal                             55.4
           dividend
           dividend per share, eur

                                                         2010                     2011                     2012                 2013          2014               2015 2
     1) dividend payments respectively for the preceding fiscal year
     2) on basis of dividend proposal




46                                                                          gea group annual report 2014

                                combined group management report / report on economic position




the consolidated cash flow statement can be summarized as follows:

overview of cash flow statement                                                                            change
(eur million)                                                                           2014      2013    absolute
cash flow from operating activities                                                    401.6     424.7      –23.0
cash flow from investing activities                                                    –349.4    –116.9    –232.5
free cash flow                                                                           52.2    307.7     –255.5
cash flow from financing activities                                                    –618.9    –246.3    –372.6
cash flow from disposal group gea heat exchangers                                      980.1         –      980.1
net cash flow from disposal group gea heat exchangers                                   –10.9      79.3     –90.2
net cash flow other discontinued operations                                             –13.1     –58.9      45.8
change in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents                                       400.1       58.3     341.8



cash flow from operating activities attributable to continuing operations amounted to eur 401.6 million
in the year under review, down eur 23.0 million on the previous year (eur 424.7 million). higher liquidity
outflows from the increase of working capital (eur –36.8 million) and increased tax payments
(eur –18.9 million) were not fully offset by the eur 24.7 million improvement in ebitda.

cash flow from investing activities attributable to continuing operations amounted to eur –349.4 million
in the reporting period (previous year: eur –116.9 million). this is largely attributable to cash investments
and the purchase of securities in the total amount of eur 237.0 million in the reporting period.

cash flow from financing activities attributable to continuing operations amounted to
eur –618.9 million in 2014, compared with eur –246.3 million in 2013. this chiefly reflects the
repayment of loans from kreditanstalt für wiederaufbau, as previously presented, the repayment of a
borrower’s note loan, and the partial repurchase of bonds, amounting to eur 406.8 million in total.

cash flow from discontinued operations amounted to eur 956.1 million in the reporting period,
mainly due to the completed sale of the gea heat exchangers segment. of this figure, eur 923.8 million
was attributable to investing activities. this includes the effect of selling the gea heat exchangers
segment, which amounted to eur 1,059.3 million less divested cash and cash equivalents
(eur 79.2 million). eur 37.1 million was attributable to operating activities, and eur –4.9 million was
attributable to financing activities.

cash flow drivers
gea’s overriding goal is to sustainably increase its enterprise value by growing profitably. the cash flow
driver margin is a key group performance indicator that is used to create the necessary financial scope for
this and to focus the group even more closely on cash flow generation. it is also incorporated into the
bonus system.

the cash flow driver margin is a simplified cash flow indicator (ebitda minus capital expenditures for
property, plant, and equipment, and intangible assets (capex) and minus the change in average working
capital) and is expressed as a ratio to revenue.




                                                        gea group annual report 2014                                 47

                                           combined group management report / report on economic position




     cash flow driver/cash flow driver margin                                                                                   change
     (eur million)                                                                                  12/31/2014   12/31/2013       in %
     ebitda (last 12 months)                                                                             539.9        515.2        4.8
     capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment (last 12 months)                                93.8        120.5      –22.2
     change in working capital (average of the past 12 months)                                            40.8        –19.1          –
     cash flow driver
     (ebitda – capex -/+change in working capital)                                                      405.3         413.8       –2.0
      as % of revenue (past 12 months)                                                                     9.0           9.6         –



     the cash flow driver amounted to eur 405.3 million in the year under review, compared with
     eur 413.8 million in the previous year. the cash flow driver margin was 9.0 percent. the cash flow driver
     was improved due to the eur 24.7 million year on year increase in ebitda and the 26.7 million decrease
     in capital expenditure. by contrast, average working capital increased by eur 40.8 million, due in
     particular to volume-related factors, whereas in the previous year there had been a reduction of
     approximately eur 19 million in the relevant balance sheet items.

     net assets

     condensed balance sheet                                                            as % of                     as % of     change
     (eur million)                                                    12/31/2014     total assets   12/31/2013   total assets     in %

     assets
     non-current assets                                                  2,714.8            46.5       2,577.8          39.9       5.3
      thereof goodwill                                                   1,330.0            22.8       1,312.6          20.3       1.3
      thereof deferred taxes                                                 469.3           8.0        385.8            6.0      21.6
     current assets                                                      3,117.2            53.5       3,886.8          60.1     –19.8
      thereof cash and cash equivalents                                  1,195.9            20.5        683.5           10.6      75.0
      thereof assets held for sale                                             5.6           0.1       1,605.8          24.8     –99.7
     total assets                                                        5,832.0          100.0        6,464.6        100.0       –9.8

     equity and liabilities
     equity                                                              2,527.2            43.3       2,315.7          35.8       9.1
     non-current liabilities                                             1,558.4            26.7       1,855.9          28.7     –16.0
      thereof financial liabilities                                          456.1           7.8        957.8           14.8     –52.4
      thereof deferred taxes                                                 118.6           2.0          98.8           1.5      20.1
     current liabilities                                                 1,746.4           29.9        2,293.0         35.5      –23.8
      thereof financial liabilities                                          133.5           2.3          67.9           1.0      96.7
      thereorf liabilities held for sale                                        –              –        619.9            9.6         –
     total equity and liabilities                                        5,832.0          100.0        6,464.6        100.0       –9.8



     total assets as of december 31, 2014, declined by eur 632.6 million or 9.8 percent as against the prior-
     year reporting date, to eur 5,832.0 million. this reduction is due in particular to the sale of the gea heat
     exchangers segment. this caused a significant reduction in assets held for sale, and an increase in cash
     and cash equivalents as of the reporting date. deferred tax assets also rose. the ratio of non-current to
     current assets shifted significantly in favor of non-current assets, which accounted for 46.5 percent of
     total assets as of december 31, 2014 (previous year: 39.9 percent).

     the eur 211.5 million increase in equity represents the consolidated profit of eur 320.6 million on the
     one hand, and the dividend payment of eur 115.5 million on the other. currency translation effects
     increased equity by eur 111.0 million, whereas the actuarial measurement of pension obligations reduced
     equity by eur 95.5 million. the equity ratio improved by 7.5 percentage points compared with the end
     of 2013 (35.8 percent) to 43.3 percent. this was due in particular to the reduction in total assets.




48                                                          gea group annual report 2014

                                       combined group management report / report on economic position




non-current liabilities decreased by eur 297.5 million to eur 1,558.4 million. the amount of
eur 406.8 million of the revenue generated by the sale of the gea heat exchangers segment was used to
repay financial liabilities ahead of schedule (see page 44). non-current liabilities in the amount of
eur 100.0 million were reclassified as current liabilities due to notice of termination of the european
investment bank (eib) loan being given in november 2014 in readiness for its early repayment in january
2015. by contrast, pension provisions increased.

as of the reporting date, current liabilities excluding liabilities held for sale were up eur 73.3 million on
the figure for december 31, 2013, at eur 1,746.4 million. this was due in particular to increased liabilities
to banks. current liabilities to banks rose due to the reclassification of the loan from the european
investment bank, but were reduced by the scheduled repayment of loans from kreditanstalt für
wiederaufbau in the amount of eur 30.5 million. other financial liabilities also contributed to the
increase in current liabilities. the increase in provisions for personnel expenses was offset by the
reduction in other provisions, with no material change overall.

liabilities held for sale were no longer required to be disclosed due to the sale of the gea heat exchangers
segment (previous year: eur 619.9 million).



comparison of net assets (2014 v. 2013) *
(eur million)
                                                                                                                       equity and
assets                            5,832                       6,465                                                    liabilities             5,832          6,465




                                                                      2,578                                                                                        2,316
non-current assets                        2,715                                                                        equity                       2,527




                                                                                                                                                                   1,856
                                                                                                                       non-current
                                                                                                                       liabilities                  1,558


                                                                      3,887
current assets                            3,117
                                                                                                                                                                   2,293
                                                                                                                       current liabilities
                                                                                                                                                    1,746
                                                                      1,606
thereof assets                                                                                                         thereof debts
held for sale                                                                                                          held for sale                0              620
                                      6
                              12/31/2014                  12/31/2013                                                                         12/31/2014     12/31/2013

*) amounts adjusted due to first time classification of a business area as discontinued operation (see page 147 f.) and due to change in
   accounting policy for employee benefits (see page 118 f.)




                                                                          gea group annual report 2014                                                                     49

                                     combined group management report / report on economic position




     performance of discontinued operations

     gea heat exchangers
     on april 16, 2014, gea sold the gea heat exchangers segment to funds advised by triton. as planned,
     the transaction closed on october 31 after approval by the relevant antitrust authorities. the sale was
     based on an enterprise value of around eur 1.3 billion as of the december 31, 2013, reporting date. the
     purchase price was not adjusted to reflect any profit generated by gea heat exchangers between that
     date and completion of the transaction. consequently, the profit or loss recorded by gea heat
     exchangers after december 31, 2013, was to the economic advantage or detriment of the purchaser on
     completion of the transaction. this means that the sale was completed with economic effect as of
     january 1, 2014. gea’s cash inflow from the sale of the gea heat exchangers segment amounted to
     eur 1,059.3 million; this was partially offset by expenses connected with the transaction
     (eur 29.2 million) and the disposal of net liquidity (eur 79.2 million). the eur 41.8 million loss on
     the transaction (including the eur 22.4 million impairment loss recognized in the third quarter of
     2014) is reported in profit from discontinued operations (see page 43).

     gea heat exchangers in fiscal year 2014
     before the sale of the gea heat exchangers segment was completed on october 31, its business
     performance was as follows:


     (eur million)                                                                                    2014 1     2013 1
     order intake                                                                                     1,170.1   1,237.5
     revenues                                                                                         1,173.0   1,215.4
     operating ebitda                                                                                  116.7     120.7
      as % of revenue                                                                                   10.0        9.9
     employees 2                                                                                       7,136     7,253

     1) each until 10/31
     2) as of reporting date 10/31




     order intake
     order intake in the gea heat exchangers segment declined by 5.4 percent to eur 1,170.1 million in the first
     10 months of fiscal year 2014 (previous year: eur 1,237.5 million). adjusted for the effect of exchange rate
     changes of –1.7 percent, organic growth amounted to –3.7 percent.

     revenue
     the gea heat exchangers segment’s revenue declined by 3.5 percent to eur 1,173.0 million in the first
     10 months (previous year: eur 1,215.4 million). adjusted for the effect of exchange rate changes of
     –1.7 percent, organic growth amounted to –1.8 percent.

     results of operations
     operating ebitda in the gea heat exchangers segment amounted to eur 116.7 million in the first 10
     months, compared with eur 120.7 million in the comparable prior-year period. the operating ebitda
     margin improved slightly, rising from 9.9 percent to 10.0 percent. operating ebit amounted to
     eur 88.8 million as of the end of october, compared with eur 92.3 million in the previous year. at
     7.6 percent, the corresponding operating ebit margin remained stable year-on-year.




50                                                    gea group annual report 2014

                     combined group management report / report on economic position




the purchase price was not adjusted to reflect any profit generated by gea heat exchangers between
december 31, 2013, and completion of the transaction. consequently, the profit generated increased the
carrying amount of the disposal group, which was written down to its fair value less costs to sell. this led
to an impairment loss of eur 22.4 million, which is not included in the figure for operating profit. in
addition to the expected transaction costs, costs to sell include sufficient provisions for contractual
warranties associated with the sale and for risk-sharing obligations for large projects.

ebit and earnings after tax both decreased in the first 10 months, due primarily to this impairment loss.
ebit declined by eur 25.6 million to eur 62.8 million, while earnings after tax fell by eur 28.5 million
to eur 35.8 million.

employees
the number of employees in the gea heat exchangers segment amounted to 7,136 as of october 31, 2014.
this represents a further decrease of 117 employees compared with october 31, 2013 (7,253). the
reduction in the number of employees is mainly due to capacity adjustments in the uk, south africa,
and china.

other companies
once again, other companies classified as discontinued operations did not have a material impact
overall on consolidated profit in fiscal year 2014.

the risks relating to the sale of lentjes decreased from an overall perspective in fiscal 2014, meaning
that some of the provisions recognized for this could be reversed. the same applies to the risks arising
from the sale of lurgi. the provisions for risks remaining under this transaction were fully reversed.
provisions for risks arising from winding up the operations of ruhr-zink were utilized in the reporting
period. in december 2014, ruhr-zink gmbh sold a 130,000 m² plot of land at its former production
location in datteln to municipal development corporation entwicklungsgesellschaft datteln süd mbh
for a purchase price of eur 0.3 million. as part of the sale, risks were transferred to the development
corporation in return for a eur 14.8 million rehabilitation payment.




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                            51

                                           combined group management report / report on economic position




     employees
     the executive board of gea group aktiengesellschaft would like to thank all of the group’s employees
     for their excellent work and active commitment in fiscal 2014. our particular thanks go to the employee
     representatives in germany and abroad for their responsible and constructive contributions.

     there were 18,243 employees as of december 31, 2014. this represents a total increase of 493 employees
     across all segments compared with december 31, 2013 (17,750 employees). in germany, the number of
     employees rose by 98, while the highest increase was recorded in the asia/pacific region, with an
     additional 241 employees. acquisitions and other changes in the basis of consolidation increased the
     number of employees by 112.


     employees 1 by segment                                                                                                                12/31/2014     12/31/2013 2
     gea farm technologies                                                                                                                     2,419            2,293
     gea mechanical equipment                                                                                                                  5,927            5,878
     gea process engineering                                                                                                                   6,125            5,949
     gea refrigeration technologies                                                                                                            3,482            3,325
     total                                                                                                                                    17,953           17,445
     other                                                                                                                                       291              305
     gea group                                                                                                                                18,243           17,750

     1) full-time equivalents (fte) excluding vocational trainees and inactive employment contracts
     2) amounts adjusted due to the combination of gea food solutions and gea mechanical equipment (see financial report q1 2014)




     the share of the workforce in germany decreased by 0.3 percentage points year-on-year, and in the rest
     of western europe by 0.6 percentage points. however, it increased in the asia/pacific region by
     0.9 percentage points and in north america by 0.3 percentage points.


     employees * by region                                                                              12/31/2014                           12/31/2013
     western europe                                                                                   11,379                    62.4%       11,230             63.3%
     asia/pacific                                                                                       3,309                   18.1%        3,069             17.3%
     north america                                                                                      2,068                   11.3%        1,964             11.1%
     eastern europe                                                                                       665                       3.6%      673               3.8%
     latin america                                                                                        390                       2.1%      387               2.2%
     africa                                                                                               364                       2.0%      361               2.0%
     middle east                                                                                            68                      0.4%        66              0.4%
     total                                                                                            18,243                  100.0%        17,750            100.0%

     *) full-time equivalents (fte) excluding vocational trainees and inactive employment contracts




     as of december 31, 2014, gea employed 573 vocational trainees compared with 516 at the same date in
     the previous year. in germany, the vocational trainee ratio stood at 7.2 percent (previous year: 6.9 percent).

     performance management
     performance assessments are carried out at regular intervals for managers worldwide. their superiors
     use standardized procedures to assess key attributes such as a performance- and results-driven
     approach, assertiveness, communication skills, leadership, commitment, use of management tools,
     and creativity. the results are used as a basis for discussing individual development measures and
     long-term personnel and succession planning.




52                                                                          gea group annual report 2014

                    combined group management report / report on economic position




talent development programs
gea runs talent development programs for target groups at different levels of seniority. the two
programs – “first professional program” and “professionals on stage” – are designed to identify and
develop employees with management potential. the main components of these programs are
development assessment centers, drawing up individual development plans, and training modules.

absolventa gmbh, which operates a career portal designed specifically for young graduates and
students, recognized gea’s cross-segment “move – gea graduate program” trainee program for
university graduates as a fair, career-enhancing program. trainees are prepared at a cross-segment
level for future management tasks in both commercial and technical areas over a period of 18 months
in gea companies in germany and abroad.

gea participates in the london business school’s global business consortium, in which top managers
from prominent international companies can hone their strategic skills using case studies, among
other things. board members of the participating companies are actively included in the program,
where they give presentations and take part in discussion groups.

gea academy
the gea academy offers central professional development and training for all employees. in fiscal
year 2014, the gea academy offered both classroom training sessions and e-learning modules on
various management and leadership areas. as in previous years, these were organized in cooperation
with an internationally recognized partner.

part-time university studies
gea aims to ensure its young talent receives first-class training, which is why it offers twin-track
courses of study in cooperation with universities and universities of applied sciences. lasting six
semesters, these twin-track training courses lead to bachelor degrees in various specialist areas.

personnel marketing
the online career portal and corporate hr blog were continued. the “fair company” seal of approval
for employers was renewed in fiscal 2014. this initiative stands for the fair treatment of interns. in
addition, gea continued to exhibit regularly at university career fairs and product shows in 2014.




                                     gea group annual report 2014                                        53

                                      combined group management report / report on economic position




     net assets, financial position, and results of operations of
     gea group aktiengesellschaft
     in addition to the reporting by the group, the following section describes the performance of gea group
     aktiengesellschaft (group management). the annual financial statements are prepared in accordance with
     the handelsgesetzbuch (hgb – german commercial code) and the aktiengesetz (aktg – german stock
     corporation act). they are presented here in condensed form.

     net assets of gea group ag (hgb)                                                            as % of                     as % of
     (eur million)                                                             31/12/2014     total assets   31/12/2013   total assets

     assets
     intangible fixed assets                                                            4.0           0.1           3.2           0.1
     tangible fixed assets                                                              2.0             –           3.6           0.1
     long-term financial assets                                                   2,842.7            59.6       2,994.5          64.0
     fixed assets                                                                 2,848.7           59.7        3,001.3         64.2
     receivables and other assets                                                     714.7          15.0       1,139.6          24.3
      thereof receivables from affiliated companies                                   677.9         14.2        1,111.9         23.7
      thereof other assets                                                             36.8           0.8          27.7           0.6
     securities                                                                        37.0           0.8            –              –
     cash and cash equivalents                                                    1,167.3           24.4         531.9          11.4
     current assets                                                               1,919.0           40.2        1,671.5         35.7
     prepaid expenses                                                                   3.2           0.1           5.1           0.1
     total                                                                        4,770.9          100.0        4,677.9        100.0

     equity and liabilities
     subscribed capital                                                               520.4         10.9         520.4          11.1
     capital reserves                                                                 250.8           5.3        250.8            5.4
     revenue reserves                                                                 741.7         15.5         736.7          15.7
     net retained profits                                                             136.5           2.9        116.4            2.5
     equity                                                                       1,649.4           34.6        1,624.3         34.7
     provisions                                                                       288.0           6.0        191.1            4.1
     bonds                                                                            274.7           5.8        400.0            8.6
     liabilities to banks                                                             240.0           5.0        552.0          11.8
     liabilities to affiliated companies                                          2,301.2           48.2        1,889.5         40.4
     other liabilities                                                                 15.0           0.3          20.9           0.4
     liabilities                                                                  2,830.9           59.3        2,862.4         61.2
     deferred income                                                                    2.6           0.1           0.1             –
     total                                                                        4,770.9          100.0        4,677.9        100.0



     total assets increased by eur 93.0 million as against the prior-year period. this was primarily due to
     the eur 635.4 million increase in cash funds. by contrast, receivables from affiliated companies
     decreased by eur 434.0 million. this change is due in particular to the sale of the gea heat exchangers
     segment in the year under review.

     net income for the fiscal year of eur 140.7 million less the dividend of eur 115.5 million paid out in
     fiscal year 2014 led to the eur 25.1 million increase in equity to eur 1,649.4 million. the equity ratio
     decreased by 0.1 percentage points to 34.6 percent. eur 5.0 million were transferred to the revenue
     reserves for the fiscal year.

     provisions increased by eur 96.9 million. liabilities to affiliated companies also rose, with the
     eur 411.7 million increase largely being due to loss absorption. eur 406.8 million of the proceeds
     from the sale of the gea heat exchangers segment was used to repay financial liabilities ahead of
     schedule. specifically, two loans from kreditanstalt für wiederaufbau amounting to a total of
     eur 71.5 million were repaid. bonds in the amount of eur 125.3 million were repurchased, and
     borrower’s note loans in the amount of eur 210.0 million were also repaid early.




54                                                     gea group annual report 2014

                                combined group management report / report on economic position




there were only minor changes overall to the rest of the balance sheet items compared with the
previous year.

income statement of gea group ag (hgb)
(eur million)                                                                  12/31/2014      in %    12/31/2013    in %
other operating income                                                                140.6     91.4       120.7      54.9
personnel expenses                                                                    –32.6    –21.2        –31.8    –14.5
amortization amd writedowns of intangible fixed assets and
depreciation and writedowns of tangible fixed assets                                   –1.0     –0.7         –1.6     –0.7
other operating expenses                                                          –231.5      –150.5      –143.6     –65.3
investment income                                                                     278.0   180.8        267.4    121.6
net interest income                                                                     0.3      0.2          8.9      4.0
result from ordinary activities                                                       153.8   100.0        220.0    100.0
taxes on income                                                                       –13.1     –8.5        –16.8     –7.6
net income for the fiscal year                                                        140.7     91.5       203.2      92.4
retained profits brought forward                                                        0.8      0.5          3.2      1.5
appropriation to other revenue reserves                                                –5.0     –3.3        –90.0    –40.9
net retained profits                                                                  136.5     88.7       116.4      52.9



exchange rate gains and losses from own hedges and hedges for affiliated companies are reported
gross within other operating income and expenses, as in the previous year. gains of eur 100.1 million
(previous year: eur 78.0 million) and losses of eur 99.4 million (previous year: eur 76.1 million)
resulted in net exchange rate gains of eur 0.7 million (previous year: eur 1.9 million).

in addition to exchange rate gains, other operating income primarily includes income from recharging
the intercompany management fee and the trademark fee to subsidiaries, from ancillary operations, and
from the reversal of provisions. in addition to exchange rate losses, other operating expenses mainly
comprise the cost of expert opinions and consulting, as well as third-party services. the eur 87.9 million
increase in other operating expenses is primarily attributable to nonrecurring expenses relating to the
“fit for 2020” project and the completed sale of the gea heat exchangers segment.

investment income comprises income and expenses from profit and loss transfer agreements. income from
profit transfer agreements mainly contains the profits transferred by gea heat exchangers gmbh, gea
group holding gmbh, gea niro gmbh, and gea refrigeration germany gmbh. cost of loss absorption
contains in particular the assumed losses of gea mechanical equipment gmbh, mg altersversorgung
gmbh, ll plant engineering gmbh, and ziag plant engineering gmbh. the income from profit transfers
and the cost of loss absorption were dominated by the sale of equity investments belonging to the gea heat
exchangers segment and the subsequent streamlining of the corporate structure.

net interest income decreased by eur 8.6 million to eur 0.3 million (previous year: eur 8.9 million).
this resulted primarily from the partial repurchase of bonds at a price of 105.5 and from the increase
in discount unwinding costs on non-current other provisions, which rose by eur 0.6 million to
eur 2.5 million (previous year: eur 1.9 million).

cash flow gea group aktiengesellschaft (hgb)
(eur million)                                                                                              2014      2013
cash flow from operating activities                                                                     1,022.2      207.1
cash flow from investing activities                                                                       165.9       57.3
cash flow from financing activities                                                                      –552.7     –194.9
liquid funds                                                                                            1,167.3     531.9




                                                       gea group annual report 2014                                          55

                          combined group management report / report on economic position




     gea group aktiengesellschaft’s business development is primarily subject to the same risks and
     opportunities as the gea group. these are presented in the report on risks and opportunities.
     additionally, the relationships with subsidiaries may result in negative effects due to statutory and
     contractual contingent liabilities (in particular finance).

     the most important key performance indicator for gea group aktiengesellschaft is (hgb) net income
     for the fiscal year, which allows it to pay out a dividend of between 40 and 50 percent of the (ifrs)
     consolidated profit. earnings were lower than expected in fiscal year 2014, due to the sale of the gea
     heat exchangers segment and the associated reorganization, as well as expenses for strategic projects.
     a slight year-on-year improvement is expected for fiscal year 2015.

     due to its overlap with the group as a whole, further details on the future business development of
     gea group aktiengesellschaft can be found in the chapter entitled “outlook” (see page 97 f.).

     proposal on the appropriation of profits
     gea group aktiengesellschaft’s annual financial statements in accordance with the hgb report net
     income for the fiscal year of eur 140.7 million. the executive board and supervisory board
     appropriated eur 5.0 million of this amount to the other revenue reserves in accordance with
     section 58(2) sentence 1 of the aktg. the executive board and supervisory board will propose to the
     annual general meeting to pay a dividend of eur 0.70 per share, up from eur 0.60 in the prior-year
     period, to shareholders from the net retained profits of eur 136.5 million for a total of 192,495,476
     shares (previous year: 192,495,476 shares), and to carry forward the remaining net retained profits of
     eur 1.8 million to new account.

     the dividend will be paid from the contribution account for tax purposes (section 27 of the
     körperschaftsteuergesetz (kstg – german corporate income tax act)) and therefore without deduction
     of investment income tax and the solidarity surcharge. in the case of shareholders in germany, the
     dividend is not subject to current taxation in the year of payment. the opinion of the german tax
     authorities (see also the federal ministry of finance (bmf) circular dated december 22, 2009,
     paragraph 92) is that the payment of dividends from the contribution account for tax purposes constitutes
     a repayment of shareholder contributions, which results in a retrospective reduction in the cost of the
     shares. this can lead to the imposition of higher capital gains taxes if the shares are sold at a later date.

     explanatory information in accordance with sections 289(4) and (5), and 315(2)
     no. 5 and 315(4) of the hgb

     composition of the subscribed capital and restrictions on rights
     as of december 31, 2014, the subscribed capital of gea group aktiengesellschaft was eur 520,375,765.57
     and was composed of 192,495,476 no-par value bearer shares. all the shares are ordinary shares. the
     rights and obligations arising from these shares are defined in the aktg. the executive board is not
     aware of any restrictions affecting the voting rights. participation in the gea performance share plan
     requires a personal investment by participants in gea shares, which are subject to a holding period of
     three years. participants who infringe the holding period lose their right to participate in the plan.




56                                          gea group annual report 2014

                     combined group management report / report on economic position




interests in the share capital exceeding 10 percent of the voting rights
there were no interests in the company exceeding 10 percent of the voting rights as of december 31, 2014.

provisions governing the appointment and dismissal of members of the executive board and
amendments to the articles of association
the members of the executive board are appointed and dismissed in accordance with sections 84 and
85 of the aktg in conjunction with section 31 of the mitbestimmungsgesetz (mitbestg – german
codetermination act).

under article 20(1) of gea group aktiengesellschaft’s articles of association, amendments to the
articles of association may – where legally permissible – be adopted by a simple majority of the share
capital represented at the vote. under article 21 of the articles of association, the supervisory board
may resolve amendments and additions to the articles of association that only affect their wording. in
other respects, section 179 of the aktg applies to amendments to the articles of association.

powers of the executive board to issue and repurchase shares
in accordance with article 4(3) of the articles of association, the executive board is authorized, with
the approval of the supervisory board, to increase the share capital by up to eur 77 million by issuing
new no-par value shares against cash contributions on one or more occasions until april 23, 2017
(authorized capital i) and, in accordance with article 5(4) of the articles of association, to define a
starting date for profit rights in this case that differs from the date stipulated by law. the executive
board is also entitled, with the approval of the supervisory board, to exclude fractions from
shareholders’ preemptive rights. the new shares may also be underwritten by banks with the obligation
of offering them to the shareholders for subscription.

in accordance with article 4(4) of the articles of association, the executive board is authorized, with
the approval of the supervisory board, to increase the share capital by up to eur 72 million by issuing
new no-par value shares against cash or noncash contributions on one or more occasions until
april 20, 2015 (authorized capital ii) and, in accordance with article 5(4) of the articles of association,
to define a starting date for profit rights in this case that differs from the date stipulated by law. the
executive board is also entitled, with the approval of the supervisory board, to exclude fractions from
shareholders’ preemptive rights. furthermore, the executive board is authorized, with the approval of
the supervisory board, to disapply shareholders’ preemptive rights in a partial amount of
eur 50 million in the case of capital increases against noncash contributions for the purpose of
business combinations or the acquisition of companies, parts of companies, or equity interests in
companies. the new shares may also be underwritten by banks with the obligation of offering them to
the shareholders for subscription.

under a resolution adopted by the annual general meeting on april 21, 2010, the share capital was
contingently increased by up to eur 48,659,656.71, comprising up to 18 million bearer shares
(article 4(5) of the articles of association). the contingent capital increase will only be implemented
to the extent that the holders or creditors of options or conversion rights or persons obliged to convert
or exercise options under bonds with warrants or convertible bonds issued against cash contributions
that are guaranteed by the company or a subordinate group company of the company up to
april 20, 2015, on the basis of the authorization of the executive board by the annual general meeting
resolution dated april 21, 2010, exercise their options or conversion rights or, if they are obliged to
convert or exercise options, satisfy their obligation to convert or exercise options, or if gea group
aktiengesellschaft exercises its option to grant shares of gea group aktiengesellschaft in full or in




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                           57

                         combined group management report / report on economic position




     part instead of payment of the monetary amount due, and if no cash settlement is granted or own
     shares or shares of another listed company are used in settlement. new shares will be issued at the
     option or conversion price to be determined in each case in accordance with the authorizing resolution
     referred to above. the new shares bear dividend rights from the beginning of the fiscal year in which
     they are created. the executive board is authorized, with the approval of the supervisory board, to
     determine the further details of the implementation of the contingent capital increase.

     under a resolution adopted by the annual general meeting dated april 21, 2010, gea group
     aktiengesellschaft is authorized to purchase own shares up to a total of 10 percent of the share capital
     in accordance with section 71(1) no. 8 of the aktg. the authorization is valid until april 20, 2015. the
     shares may be purchased via the stock exchange or by means of a public purchase offer to all
     shareholders. the shares may subsequently be used for all purposes allowed by law. in particular they
     may be redeemed, used to service bonds with warrants or convertible bonds, transferred to third
     parties as part of business combinations or acquisitions, or disposed of in another manner. further
     details on the resolutions on the share buyback adopted by the 2010 annual general meeting are
     available in the invitation to the annual general meeting, which was published in the electronic
     federal gazette on march 11, 2010.

     material agreements that take effect in the event of a change of control
     following a takeover bid
     the individual lenders of the syndicated credit line (club deal) amounting to eur 650 million may
     refuse new drawdowns in the event of a change of control. the lenders may call in any amounts already
     drawn down and terminate the respective credit line giving 20 days’ notice.
     in the case of the bond issue in the amount of approximately eur 275 million, each bondholder has
     the right to require repayment by the issuer of the nominal amount of their bonds, including accrued
     interest, if there is a change of control and, as a result, the credit rating is revised downwards to
     noninvestment grade within 90 days of the change of control taking effect. to exercise this right to
     early repayment, the bondholder has to submit a corresponding exercise notice within 45 days of
     publication of the event by the issuer.

     in the event of a change of control, the lenders of the borrower’s note loans in the total amount of
     eur 90 million are entitled to require early repayment of their loan receivable, including interest
     accrued up to the date of the early repayment. the borrower determines the repayment date, which
     may not be fewer than 60 days and more than 90 days after the date on which the borrower was
     informed of the change of control and notified the lenders of this via the paying agent.

     in the case of the loan agreement with the european investment bank (eib) amounting to
     eur 150 million as of december 31, 2014, the eib is entitled to call in the loan and require early
     repayment including accrued interest in the event of a change of control. in this case, the borrower is
     obliged to repay the amount on the date specified by the bank, which may not be earlier than 30 days
     after the repayment request.

     under a master loan agreement for eur 260 million, which is primarily used to issue guarantees for
     subsidiaries, the lender has the right in the event of an imminent change of control to negotiate the
     continuation of the agreement under changed terms. if no agreement is reached, the master loan agreement
     will fall due with immediate effect. in this case, the lender must be released from its obligations under




58                                         gea group annual report 2014

                     combined group management report / report on economic position




guarantees furnished within two months or, at the discretion of the borrower, the latter shall make a cash
deposit in the amount of the outstanding obligations under the guarantees furnished.

all performance shares under the gea performance share plan expire in the event of a change of
control. managers who have participated in the plan then receive a compensation payment for the
expired performance shares. this payment corresponds to the allocated target value in each case.

a change of control within the meaning of these agreements and the gea performance share plan is
deemed to have occurred in particular if a majority of voting rights or shares of the company are
transferred to a single person or group of persons.

compensation arrangements with members of the executive board or employees
executive board members’ contracts include provisions on the calculation of bonuses in the event of a
change of control. additional details can be found in the remuneration report starting on page 67.
further compensation arrangements with employees have been agreed with regard to the performance
shares under the gea performance share plan.

key attributes of the internal control and risk management system relating to the financial
reporting process
see the “risk management system” and “internal control system” sections starting on page 83 ff. of
the management report.

overall assessment of business development
demand from gea’s customer markets remained steady in fiscal year 2014. at over eur 4.5 billion,
gea again posted its highest ever revenue despite a slight drop in order intake and negative exchange
rate effects. all segments contributed to this growth with record revenue figures. operating profit
(ebitda) was up 11.4 percent year-on-year to eur 591 million. this corresponds to an operating
ebitda margin of 13.1 percent. the group’s net debt was replaced by eur 904 million of net liquidity
during the course of the year. this was primarily due to the approximately eur 1 billion in revenue
from the sale of the gea heat exchangers segment, but also to gea’s positive business performance.
financial liabilities in the amount of eur 407 million were repaid ahead of schedule in the reporting
period. with respect to our cash flow drivers, a very good ratio to revenue of 9.0 percent was also
achieved. gea therefore remains in robust economic shape.
as expected, overall there was no further negative impact on earnings attributable to the other
companies classified as discontinued operations.

summing up, it can be said that all material forecasts relating to revenue, profit, and cash flow drivers
communicated at the beginning of fiscal year 2014 were met or exceeded, and that gea group
aktiengesellschaft’s (hgb) net income for the fiscal year made it possible to propose a higher dividend.
gea’s business development in 2014 can therefore be considered as positive.









                                       gea group annual report 2014                                          59

                    combined group management report / report on post-balance sheet date events




     report on post-balance sheet date events
     gea completed its acquisition of the dutch company de klokslag on january 2, 2015, after approval by
     the relevant antitrust authorities.

     gea made an early repayment of eur 100.0 million on the loan from the european investment bank
     (eib) in january 2015.

     the “blueprint detailing” phase of the “fit for 2020” project was completed at the end of january 2015.
     this mapped out gea’s new organizational structure in detail, described group-wide standardized
     processes, and defined responsibilities. the project immediately progressed to the “implementation
     preparation” phase. this will now make all the preparations necessary to implement the new
     organization, a step which is planned for the second quarter of 2015.

     there were no further significant events occurring in the period between the end of fiscal 2014 and the
     date the annual report was prepared that could have influenced the disclosures on the course of
     business and the expected development of the group.




60                                         gea group annual report 2014

                     combined group management report / corporate governance report




corporate governance report
including the corporate governance declaration

the corporate governance declaration issued in accordance with section 289a of the handelsgesetzbuch
(hgb – german commercial code) does not form part of the annual audit pursuant to section 317 para. 2
sentence 3 of the german commercial code.

transparent, responsible corporate governance and control geared towards long-term value enhancement
are given high priority at gea group aktiengesellschaft. in doing so, we align our actions with the generally
accepted principles of corporate governance while implementing the suggestions and recommendations of
the german corporate governance code as amended on june 24, 2014 (published in the federal gazette on
september 30, 2014) to the greatest possible extent.

declaration of conformity
on december 18, 2014, the executive board and supervisory board of gea group aktiengesellschaft issued
the following declaration of conformity in accordance with section 161 of the aktiengesetz (aktg – german
stock corporation act) that has been made permanently accessible to the general public on the company’s
website at www.gea.com:

gea group aktiengesellschaft complies with the recommendations of the german corporate governance
code (gcgc) as amended on june 24, 2014 and published by the federal ministry of justice in the official
section of the federal gazette with the following exemption and will continue to comply with these
recommendations in the future with such exemption:

currently, the compensation of the executive board members is not capped according to amount both overall
and for all variable compensation components (no. 4.2.3 para. 2 sent. 6 gcgc).

explanation:
if the services of the executive board members lead to an extraordinary increase of value for the shareholders
of the company, the supervisory board may, subject to its dutiful discretion, grant a discretionary bonus in
accordance with the service agreements. the executive board members are not entitled to receive this
extraordinary bonus. the respective clause in the service agreements of the executive board members only
authorizes the supervisory board to make an adequate discretionary decision based on statutory provisions
and within the limits of the jurisdiction of the highest courts. currently, this special bonus which is only
available in exceptional situations is not expressly capped according to amount in the service agreements of
the executive board members. we are of the opinion that an amendment of existing service agreements is
not required taking into consideration both the restrictive statutory rules and the limits defined by the
highest courts. the service agreements of the executive board members will be amended respectively, if
executive board members are reappointed or appointed for the first time.

since the issuance of the last declaration of conformity on december 19, 2013, gea group aktiengesellschaft
has complied with the recommendations of the gcgc as amended on may 13, 2013 and published by the
federal ministry of justice in the official section of the federal gazette as well as, since their publication in
the federal gazette, as amended on june 24, 2014 with the exception explained above relating to no. 4.2.3
para.2 sent. 6 gcgc.

düsseldorf, december 18, 2014

for the supervisory board					                                      for the executive board
dr. jürgen heraeus					                                             jürg oleas        dr. stephan petri




                                         gea group annual report 2014                                               61

                         combined group management report / corporate governance report




     code of conduct
     the executive board and supervisory board have drawn up a code of conduct that stipulates that the
     group‘s business activities shall comply with all laws and with high ethical standards. this code of
     conduct applies to all employees and bodies of gea group worldwide. it is supplemented by guidelines
     on individual topics, in particular by the anti-corruption guideline. finally, the company and the
     european works council jointly agreed general principles of social corporate responsibility (“codes of
     conduct”) laying down ethical, social and legal standards that are binding on all gea group employees.
     based on the code of conduct and the “codes of conduct” a globally applicable and uniform policy for
     the areas of health, safety & environment (“hse”) was published in january 2014. the code of
     conduct, the anti-corruption guideline, the hse policy and further information are published on the
     website of gea group aktiengesellschaft under investor relations/corporate governance.

     compliance organization
     compliance in the sense of measures designed to ensure adherence to legal, statutory and internal
     corporate policies, as well as compliance therewith by group companies, is considered to be a key
     management and supervisory responsibility at gea group. for this purpose, the company established
     a compliance organization some years ago. the group-wide compliance organization is headed by the
     chief compliance officer who reports to the audit committee of the supervisory board. the chief
     compliance officer receives support from the corporate compliance officer. in addition, a compliance
     committee advising the chief compliance officer was established. apart from that, a segment
     compliance officer as well as a company compliance manager were appointed for each segment and
     each operating company, respectively. in parallel, gea set up a worldwide export control organization
     that is also headed by the chief compliance officer who is supported by the corporate export control
     officer and the chief foreign trade officer at group level. a segment export manager for each segment
     and a company export manager for each operational entity were appointed, respectively.

     the members of the compliance organization meet regularly to discuss the latest developments and
     their potential impact and/or any need to supplement gea group‘s compliance program. recently, as
     of december 1, 2014, gea group introduced the so-called integrity system on a global basis. this
     integrity system allows gea group employees and external third parties to report suspected
     compliance violations or violations of the gea codes of conduct via an internet-based system.
     moreover, classroom and web-based training sessions are delivered to the group employees responsible
     for compliance at regular intervals; this training covers current issues and regulations relative to the
     law, the code of conduct and gea group‘s additional compliance guidelines. gea group‘s extensive
     compliance program is rounded off by computer-based it tools (e.g. for the periodic identification of
     compliance risks) as well as direct talks held at a local level between representatives of the compliance
     organization and local managing directors for evaluating best practices within the group.

     finally, the company set up an hse organization designed to develop and implement group-wide
     guidelines, programs and procedures in this field.

     responsible risk management
     gea group aktiengesellschaft has grown considerably in recent years. however, sustainable growth
     can only be achieved if both the opportunities and the risks associated with business activities are
     identified and adequately taken into account. for this reason, an effective control and risk management
     system represents one of the core elements of corporate governance at gea group aktiengesellschaft.
     further information is provided on pages 82 ff. of this annual report.




62                                         gea group annual report 2014

                    combined group management report / corporate governance report




transparency in accounting and audit transparency
gea group aktiengesellschaft is committed to transparent reporting. the company‘s consolidated
financial statements and quarterly reports are prepared in accordance with the international financial
reporting standards (ifrs) as adopted by the european union. the single entity financial statements
of gea group aktiengesellschaft, which are legally required and determine dividend payout, are
governed by the german handelsgesetzbuch (hgb – german commercial code). the supervisory
board engages the external auditor elected by the annual general meeting. the audit committee gives
particular attention to the surveillance of the accounting process, the effectiveness of the internal
control, risk management and internal audit systems, the audit of the annual financial statements as
well as compliance; moreover, it agrees the key audit areas and the audit fee with the auditor, while
ensuring that the auditor‘s work is not compromised by any conflicts of interest and that the auditor
immediately reports on any and all significant findings and events relevant to the supervisory board‘s
discharge of duties that have come to the attention of the auditor in the course of the audit. in addition
to the consolidated and annual financial statements, the audit committee also discusses the half-
yearly and quarterly reports with the executive board.

detailed reporting
gea group aktiengesellschaft communicates openly, actively and in detail. it regularly and promptly
informs shareholders, shareholders‘ associations, analysts, and interested members of the public on
equal terms about the company‘s situation as well as any material changes to its business. in this
respect, the company‘s website constitutes an important means of communication. it contains annual
and interim reports, press releases, ad hoc disclosures as well as other notifications required under the
wertpapierhandelsgesetz (wphg – german securities trading act), the financial calendar and other
relevant information in german and english. moreover, the group also holds regular analyst meetings,
press conferences and events for investors. all presentations delivered on these occasions can also be
downloaded from our website under “investor relations”.

directors‘ dealings and shareholdings of members of governing bodies
under section 15a of the wertpapierhandelsgesetz (wphg – german securities trading act), executive
board and supervisory board members as well as their related parties are obliged to disclose reportable
transactions in shares of gea group aktiengesellschaft or related financial instruments if the transactions
concluded in one calendar year reach or exceed the threshold of eur 5,000. the three transactions reported
to the company in the fiscal year 2014 were published on the company‘s website.

the total number of shares in gea group aktiengesellschaft held by all executive board and
supervisory board members amounts to less than 1 percent of the shares issued by the company.

securities-based remuneration program for company executives
with effect from july 1, 2006, gea group aktiengesellschaft launched a long-term, share price-based
remuneration program called “gea performance share plan” for managers on management levels one and
two below executive board level. in the fiscal year 2008, this scheme was extended to include level three
managers. details are available in note 6.3.4 (see page 183 f.) to the consolidated financial statements.




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                           63

                         combined group management report / corporate governance report




     corporate governance and control: executive board and supervisory board
     the executive board of gea group aktiengesellschaft comprises four members and constitutes the
     group‘s management body. the supervisory board – which is composed of twelve members, half of
     whom are shareholder representatives, while the other half comprises employee representatives –
     appoints and advises the executive board while overseeing its work. the executive board and the
     supervisory board cooperate closely for the benefit of the company, their common goal being the
     sustainable increase in enterprise value.

     executive board
     the executive board holds overall responsibility for the management of the company in accordance
     with legal requirements, the articles of association as well as the rules of procedure and the corporate
     policies that are in place. in line with the rules of procedure of the executive board, each executive
     board member has overall responsibility for and independently manages the area of responsibility
     assigned to him under the schedule of responsibilities, while keeping the entire executive board
     informed of any and all essential business matters on an ongoing basis. decisions on subject-matters
     of fundamental importance or particular magnitude must be taken by the entire executive board.
     executive board resolutions are adopted at regular meetings or, should no member of the executive
     board raise any objections, in writing, orally (also via telephone), via telefax or by referring to other
     common means of communication such as email. each member of the executive board must
     immediately disclose conflicts of interests to the supervisory board and inform the other members of
     the executive board accordingly.

     the executive board reports to the supervisory board regularly, promptly and comprehensively on all
     issues relating to strategy, planning, business progress, risk exposure, the risk management system as well
     as compliance that are relevant to the company. should important issues or business matters that may
     considerably impact on the situation of the company arise, the executive board notifies the chairman of
     the supervisory board without undue delay. the articles of association and the rules of procedure specify
     key transactions that require the supervisory board‘s approval. further information on the individual
     members of the executive board can be found on pages 14 and 228 of this annual report.

     supervisory board
     the supervisory board advises the executive board on the management of the company and oversees
     its conduct of the company‘s business. between the supervisory board meetings, the chairman of the
     supervisory board maintains regular contact with the executive board, in particular the chairman of
     the executive board, with whom he discusses matters of strategy, planning, business progress, risk
     exposure, risk management and compliance that are of relevance to the company. the supervisory
     board usually holds five meetings per calendar year that are attended by the executive board members
     unless the chairman of the supervisory board determines otherwise. as a rule, the supervisory board‘s
     resolutions are adopted at these meetings. unless the majority of supervisory board members
     immediately object, the chairman of the supervisory board can instruct the members to adopt
     resolutions in the course of a conference call or a video conference or outside meetings by casting their
     votes in writing, text form or by telephone. resolutions require a simple majority of the votes cast
     unless law stipulates a different majority. after notice of the meeting has been given to all members,
     the supervisory board has a quorum when a minimum of half of its members vote on a resolution by
     attending in person, by telephone or video conference or have casted their votes in writing or text form
     pursuant to section 108 para. 3 of the aktiengesetz (aktg – german stock corporation act).




64                                          gea group annual report 2014

                    combined group management report / corporate governance report




when appointing members to the executive board and proposing candidates for election to the
supervisory board, the supervisory board and its committees take into account a balanced mix of
specialist expertise and personal attributes as well as the criterion of diversity.

pursuant to the recommendation under section 5.4.1 of the german corporate governance code, the
supervisory board had laid down concrete targets relating to its composition in december 2010 (see
corporate governance report for the fiscal year 2010). during its meeting held on december 13, 2012,
the supervisory board basically confirmed these targets, while adding a new target relative to the
number of independent supervisory board members. the concrete targets that currently apply are
outlined in the corporate governance report for the fiscal year 2012. accordingly, the members of the
supervisory board – while taking into account the specific situation of the company – are to have the
knowledge, skills and specialist expertise required to ensure the proper performance of their duties. in
this context, the supervisory board also pays attention to industry knowledge, an adequate number of
independent members, international experience as well as an appropriate consideration of women.
commensurate with the best interest of the company, the decisive criterion for appointments of
supervisory board members shall always be the specialist expertise and personal suitability of the
respective candidate. in its current composition, the supervisory board complies with its targets. with
brigitte krönchen being appointed as new employee representative in november 2014, the number of
female supervisory board members increases to three and thereby exceeds the self-imposed target of
filling a minimum of two seats on the supervisory board with women. ms. krönchen was appointed by
the düsseldorf district court at the request of the executive board that was supported by the
supervisory board, the group works council and the german metalworkers‘ union (ig metal).

supervisory board committees
the work of the supervisory board is supported by committees. these are primarily the presiding
committee and the audit committee, as well as the statutory mediation committee and the nomination
committee recommended by the german corporate governance code. the presiding committee, the
audit committee and the mediation committee each comprise four members and feature equal
representation of shareholders and employees. the nomination committee consists of three members
who are exclusively shareholder representatives in accordance with section 5.3.3 of the german
corporate governance code.

the presiding committee and the audit committee usually meet four times during a calendar year. during
meetings, presiding committee and audit committee resolutions are adopted by a simple majority of the
votes cast, while outside meetings they are passed by a simple majority of the members. where there is a
tied vote, the respective chairman has a casting vote on the same resolution if another vote is held. the
nomination committee and the mediation committee only hold meetings when required.

the duties of the presiding committee, which is chaired by the chairman of the supervisory board,
include the preparation of the meetings of the supervisory board. furthermore, the presiding
committee‘s specific responsibility is to define the legal relationship between the company and the
individual executive board members, and to ensure succession planning for the executive board.
decisions on the executive board remuneration system, the total remuneration awarded to the
individual executive board members, as well as their appointment and dismissal are to be taken by the
full supervisory board.




                                      gea group annual report 2014                                          65

                         combined group management report / corporate governance report




     the audit committee, whose chairman has special knowledge and experience in applying financial
     reporting standards and systems of internal control, is primarily responsible for overseeing the
     financial reporting process and dealing with matters regarding the efficiency of the internal control
     system, the risk management system, the internal audit process and the audit of the annual financial
     statements. in addition, it monitors compliance with key legislation and official regulations, as well as
     internal guidelines including gea group‘s code of conduct (compliance).

     the mediation committee‘s duties are laid down in sections 27 and 31 of the mitbestimmungsgesetz
     (mitbestg – german co-determination act). the task of the nomination committee is to propose
     suitable candidates to the supervisory board based upon which the latter submits its nominations to
     the annual general meeting.

     further information on the composition of the supervisory board and its committees can be found on
     the company‘s website at www.gea.com on pages 228 and 229 of this annual report. in addition, the
     report of the supervisory board on pages 10 ff. of this annual report gives further details on the
     activities performed by the supervisory board and its committees in 2014, the year under review.




66                                         gea group annual report 2014

                         combined group management report / remuneration report




remuneration report
executive board remuneration

general remarks
the remuneration report outlines the key principles applied for determining the total remuneration
of the members of the executive board of gea group and sets out the structure and level of executive
board remuneration. furthermore, it specifies the principles and the level of remuneration awarded to
the members of the supervisory board.

the remuneration report comprises details of the remuneration of board members pursuant to the
german commercial code in accordance with drs no. 17 (german accounting standard 17). since
gea group complies with the recommendations of the german corporate governance code (gcgc),
this remuneration report also includes the model tables on executive board remuneration in
accordance with gcgc (see page 78 ff.).

following the recommendation of the presiding committee, the supervisory board determines the
total remuneration of the individual executive board members and resolves on the remuneration
system applicable to the executive board. the supervisory board reviews the appropriateness of the
remuneration at regular intervals. criteria for determining the appropriateness of the remuneration
include the responsibilities of the individual executive board members, their respective personal
performance, the economic situation, the success and the future prospects of the company as well as
the customary rate of remuneration on the basis of benchmarking against peer companies.

creating an incentive geared towards successful and sustainable corporate governance represents an
essential element of any decision taken with regard to the remuneration system. the latter is to ensure
that the executive board members strive for the long-term success of the company and participate in
a subsequent sustainable value enhancement. for this reason, a significant part of total remuneration
is tied to gea’s share performance as well as key performance indicators, in particular a combination
of cash flow aspects and the return on capital employed (roce), i.e. a ratio for measuring return on
capital. this ensures that outstanding performance is adequately rewarded and non-accomplishment
of set targets results in a reduction in remuneration.

the remuneration system that was approved by a large majority of the votes at the annual general
meeting on april 24, 2012, comprises non-performance-related and various performance-related and/
or variable components. the variable remuneration system seeks to provide for a highly balanced risk
and opportunity profile from the shareholders’ and executive board’s perspective and to further
enhance the sustainability of the remuneration system by separating the short-term and long-term
bonus elements. in addition, it is comparatively easy to transfer the system to the management levels
below executive board level, thereby guaranteeing a better steering of business operations.

in the fiscal year 2014, the remuneration of the executive board members was composed as follows:

fixed components of remuneration and fringe benefits
the non-performance-related component of remuneration mainly consists of a fixed annual salary that
is paid in twelve equal installments at the end of each calendar month.

the fixed annual salary paid to jürg oleas during the year under review amounted to eur 1,250 thousand.
dr. helmut schmale’s fixed annual salary was eur 675 thousand. during the year under review, the fixed annual
salaries drawn by dr. stephan petri and markus hüllmann amounted to eur 550 thousand, respectively.




                                        gea group annual report 2014                                            67

                                                combined group management report / remuneration report




     in addition, the executive board members receive fringe benefits. during the year under review, they
     mainly comprised the value of the company car use in accordance with tax regulations, accident
     insurance premiums, and – for markus hüllmann – the reimbursement of costs incurred for the
     maintenance of two households.

     variable components of remuneration
     in addition, each member of the executive board receives a variable annual remuneration (bonus)
     whose level depends on the achievement of specific targets determined by the supervisory board. in
     terms of a target achievement of 100 percent, the level of variable remuneration equals that of the fixed
     remuneration component (target bonus). to ensure that both positive and negative developments are
     taken into account, the proportion of variable remuneration increases or decreases in the event of
     over- or under-performance.

     the bonus consists of three components. the latter comprise both one-year and multi-year criteria for
     evaluation. each of the three components provides for a cap. furthermore, all three bonus components
     applicable to a specific fiscal year are limited to 240 percent of the target bonus (overall cap). at its own
     discretion, the supervisory board takes into account extraordinary events and developments, which
     indicate that a readjustment of the respective mathematically derived value is appropriate.

        individual component (weighting of 40 percent)
     the individual component of variable remuneration is payable with the next regular salary payment
     following the date of the supervisory board meeting convened to adopt the financial statements for
     the preceding fiscal year. its amount is calculated on the basis of 3 to 5 personal annual targets
     determined for the respective fiscal year by the supervisory board. when determining these individual
     targets, the supervisory board bases its decision on the sustainability of corporate governance, in
     particular, for example organic revenue growth relative to global economic growth. the supervisory
     board’s definition of the individual targets also includes their respective weighting.

     under the variable remuneration component, the individual component has a weighting of 40 percent,
     i.e. 40 percent of the variable remuneration (target amount) is payable if 100 percent of the target set
     in relation to the individual component is achieved. the overall degree of target achievement and,
     thus, the amount paid out under the individual component, is limited to 200 percent of the target
     amount (cap).

     after the end of the fiscal year, the supervisory board decides on the degree of target achievement. for
     the year 2014, the supervisory board has ascertained a 129.2 percent degree of average target
     achievement (previous year 94.9 percent) for the members of the executive board.1

        multi-year component (weighting of 40 percent)
     the multi-year component is payable with the next regular salary payment following the date of the
     supervisory board meeting convened to adopt the financial statements for the preceding fiscal year.
     performance measurement under the multi-year component takes place retrospectively for the
     previous three fiscal years. the period of assessment covers the respective fiscal year just ended, as
     well as the two preceding fiscal years. the criteria for evaluation are tied to key performance indicators
     embracing a combination of cash flow aspects (the so-called “cash flow driver margin”) and the return
     on capital employed (roce).




     1) the degree of target achievement is a rounded figure.




68                                                              gea group annual report 2014

                        combined group management report / remuneration report




- the “cash flow driver margin” (cfdm) target is a simplified cash flow indicator (ebitda minus
  capital expenditure in property, plant and equipment as well as intangible assets (capex) minus
  change in working capital on a 12-month average) calculated as a ratio of revenue. the cfdm
  actually generated is calculated on the basis of average values achieved over the previous three
  years. the degree of target achievement results from a comparison between the achieved cash flow
  driver margin and the target value or target achievement corridor defined by the supervisory board:
  as for 2014, just like the previous year, 100 percent of the target is achieved if the group’s cfdm
  during the preceding three-year period averages 8 percent. if the cfdm is lower or higher, the
  degree of target achievement will go up or down, with a cfdm less than or equal to 4.5 percent
  being equivalent to a target achievement of zero percent, while a cfdm greater than or equal to
  13.25 percent represents a maximum target achievement of 250 percent.

- the level of the roce component (roce: return on capital employed – excluding the effects of the
  acquisition of the former gea ag by the former metallgesellschaft ag in 1999), which is calculated
  on the basis of average values attained over the previous three years, corresponds to the ratio of
  earnings before interest and taxes (ebit) to the capital employed. the degree of target achievement
  depends on the actual roce achieved compared with the target value or target achievement corridor
  of +/- 5 percentage points defined by the supervisory board. as for 2014, just like the previous year,
  100 percent of the target is achieved if the group’s roce averages 19 percent during the preceding
  three-year period. if the actual roce level is greater than or less than this percentage, but within
  the defined corridor of +/- 5 percentage points, the degree of target achievement is increased or
  reduced by up to 50 percentage points.

the key figures cfdm and roce are adjusted for the impact of acquisitions made in the fiscal year
2014 or later. with respect to acquisitions, such adjustment is effected in the year of first-time
consolidation, and in the following fiscal year, as the case may be. the adjustment includes all
acquisitions that require the consent of the supervisory board or the presiding committee of the
supervisory board.

for calculating the overall degree of target achievement, the respective degrees of target achievement
relevant to the individual key performance indicators cfdm and roce are multiplied. under the variable
remuneration component, the multi-year component has a weighting of 40 percent, i.e. 40 percent of
variable remuneration is payable (target amount) if 100 percent of the target set in relation to the multi-
year component is achieved. the overall degree of target achievement and, thus, the amount paid out
under the multi-year component, is limited to 250 percent of this target amount (cap).

during the preceding three-year period an average of 7.9 percent was achieved for the key figure cfdm
which is the result of a cfdm of 5.0 percent in 2012, of 9.6 percent in 2013 and of 9.0 percent in 2014.
thus, in 2014 the degree of target achievement for the cfdm amounts to 95.8 percent (previous year
78.6 percent). for the key figure roce an average of 20.5 percent was achieved during the preceding




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                           69

                                                 combined group management report / remuneration report




     three-year period which is the result of a roce of 16.7 percent in 2012, of 22.1 percent in 2013 and of
     22.6 percent in 2014. thus, for the financial year 2014 the degree of target achievement for roce
     amounts to 114.8 percent (previous year 106.8 percent). as to the variable remuneration awarded in
     2014, the overall degree of target achievement under the multi-year component amounted to
     109.9 percent (previous year 84.0 percent).2

        long-term share price component (weighting of 20 percent)
     the long-term share price component is payable at the end of a three-year performance period with the
     next regular salary payment following the date of the supervisory board meeting convened to adopt
     the financial statements for the preceding fiscal year. performance measurement relating to the long-
     term share price component is conducted by taking a forward-looking approach. the period of
     assessment covers a three-year performance period including the relevant fiscal year as well as the two
     subsequent fiscal years.

     under the variable remuneration component, the long-term share price component has a weighting of
     20 percent, i.e. 20 percent of variable remuneration is payable (target amount) if 100 percent of the set
     target is achieved. the overall degree of target achievement and, thus, the amount paid out under the
     long-term share price component is limited to 300 percent of the target amount (cap).

     performance measurement for the relevant three-year period is conducted by means of a comparison
     between the performance of gea shares (adjusted for dividends) and the performance of the stoxx®
     europe tmi industrial engineering index (tmi ie), in which a large number of european industrial
     firms are listed. this comparison is computed on the basis of the respective arithmetic mean closing
     prices on the last 20 trading days preceding the start of the three-year performance period. 100 percent of
     the target is met if the evolution of the daily arithmetic mean closing prices of gea’s share fully (i.e. 100%)
     corresponds to the relevant tmi performance. in the event of outperformance greater than 100 percent,
     the amount paid out rises to a maximum of 300 percent of the target amount. if the increase in gea’s
     share price over the three-year period is less than 100 percent of the growth in the tmi ie, the amount
     payable is reduced accordingly down to a performance level of 75 percent: for each percentage point
     higher or lower than a 100 percent performance level, the degree of target achievement will rise or fall by
     4 percent (subject to the 300 percent cap). should gea shares have dropped, the supervisory board may
     still award a payment if gea shares have nonetheless outperformed the tmi ie.

     during the year under review, no payment under the long-term share price component was made as
     the latter is measured over a three-year period. the amount paid out under the long-term share price
     component for the year under review is measured over the three-year period between 2014 and 2016; a
     payment is scheduled for the fiscal year 2017. as of december 31, 2014, the computed degree of target
     achievement for the 2014 tranche amounted to 98.7 percent, while totaling 172.2 percent (previous year
     182.9 percent) for the 2013 tranche and 136.8 percent for the 2012 tranche (previous year 136.7 percent).3




     2) the degree of overall target achievement and/or degrees of target achievement are rounded figures, respectively.
     3) the degrees of target achievement are rounded figures, respectively.




70                                                                         gea group annual report 2014

                             combined group management report / remuneration report




the following table summarizes the respective weighting and assessment periods applicable to the
variable components:


variable remuneration                                                                           assessment period
component               target               weighting   cap    overall cap   2012       2013         2014          2015         2016
individual component    personal targets       40%       200%                                       one year
                        combination of         40%       250%
                        cash flow driver
                                                                                 retrospective (3 years)
                        margin and                                240%
multi-year component    roce
long-term share price   share price in
                                                                                                           forward-looking (3 years)
component               relation to tmi ie     20%       300%



in exceptional circumstances, the supervisory board may also grant a special bonus to the members of
the executive board if their activities have resulted in an extraordinary value enhancement for the
benefit of the company’s shareholders. exercising its discretionary powers dutifully, the supervisory
board decides to grant this special bonus and sets the respective amount. at present, the currently
applicable service agreements concluded with the executive board members do not provide for an
express cap on this potential special bonus, which may only be awarded in exceptional circumstances.
however, a corresponding amendment to the service agreements of the executive board members that
is to cap the special bonus to 100 percent of the target bonus will be made in connection with the
re-appointment or new appointment of executive board members. the service agreements covering
the tenures of dr. helmut schmale and dr. stephan petri commencing on april 1, 2015, or june 1, 2015,
respectively, already provide for such a special bonus cap.

pension benefits and surviving dependents‘ benefits

jürg oleas
the contractual pension benefit of the chairman of the executive board, jürg oleas, amounts to a
maximum of eur 360 thousand p.a., with full entitlement to the pension arising after 18 years of service
(end of april 2019). under this agreement, mr. oleas’ pension is paid once his executive board service
agreement ends when or after he reaches the age of 62 or if he becomes permanently unable to work. if
jürg oleas’ service agreement ends before he has completed 18 years of service, he will have vested rights
to a pro rata annual pension payable once he reaches the age of 62. the respective amount is calculated
based on the ratio of his actual years of service to the period of 18 years of service. if jürg oleas leaves after
a minimum of 15 years of service, but before reaching the age of 62, he will receive a pension in the form
of a transitional benefit of eur 220 thousand p.a. until he reaches the age of 62. in the event of mr. oleas’
premature departure, any agreed severance payment will be deducted from his transitional benefits. all
and any income from activities he engages in after leaving the company, but prior to reaching the age
of 62, will be fully deducted from the transitional benefits up to a maximum amount of half of the
transitional payment awarded in the respective year. the ongoing pension is adjusted annually in line
with the consumer price index.

the surviving dependents’ benefits defined in jürg oleas’ service agreement mainly provide for a lifelong
widow’s pension as well as an orphan’s pension. the lifelong widow’s pension amounts to 60 percent of
the annual retirement pension. the orphan’s pension is a specific percentage of the retirement pension
and its amount depends on the number of children and on whether they are full or half orphans. in
principle, entitlement to an orphan’s pension expires on reaching the age of 18, or at the latest on reaching
the age of 25 if the child in question is still at school or in vocational or professional training. collectively,
widow’s and orphan’s pensions must not exceed the amount of the retirement pension.




                                                 gea group annual report 2014                                                           71

                             combined group management report / remuneration report




     dr. helmut schmale
     the contractual pension benefits of the chief financial officer, dr. helmut schmale, amount to a
     maximum of eur 200 thousand p.a. under this arrangement, a pension will be paid once his service
     agreement ends when or after dr. schmale reaches the age of 62 or if he becomes permanently unable
     to work. should dr. helmut schmale’s service agreement end before one of the above conditions for
     payment of his pension is met, he will have vested rights to a pro rata annual pension that becomes
     payable once he reaches the age of 62. the amount of this pension is calculated on the basis of the ratio
     of his actual term of service to the maximum possible term of service before reaching the age of 62.
     the ongoing pension is adjusted annually in line with the consumer price index.

     pension subsidies of up to half of the income threshold for contribution assessment under the statutory
     pension insurance scheme are granted to dr. helmut schmale against evidence of the costs incurred.

     in addition, dr. helmut schmale is entitled to make a personal contribution to a deferred compensation
     pension scheme for executive board members for each fiscal year. no employer subsidy is paid.

     the surviving dependents’ benefits defined in dr. helmut schmale’s service agreement are in line with
     the provisions outlined above in relation to jürg oleas.

     dr. stephan petri
     the contractual pension benefits of dr. stephan petri, member of the executive board, amount to a
     maximum of eur 200 thousand p.a. under this arrangement, a pension will be paid once the executive
     board service agreement ends when or after dr. petri reaches the age of 62 or if he becomes permanently
     unable to work. should dr. stephan petri’s executive board service agreement end before one of the
     above conditions for payment of a pension is met, he will enjoy vested rights to a maximum annual
     pension of eur 200 thousand that may be reduced subject to the ratio of his actual term of service as
     a member of the executive board to the term of service required for obtaining his full pension benefits,
     and that becomes payable once he reaches the age of 62. the ongoing pension is adjusted annually in
     line with the consumer price index.

     pension subsidies of up to half of the income threshold for contribution assessment under the statutory
     pension insurance scheme or one of the pension schemes for the liberal professions are granted to
     dr. stephan petri against evidence of the costs incurred. in addition, dr. stephan petri is entitled to
     personal contributions under the deferred compensation pension scheme in connection with his
     participation in gea’s executive pension scheme prior to his appointment to the executive board.

     in addition, dr. stephan petri is entitled to make a personal contribution per fiscal year to a deferred
     compensation pension scheme for executive board members. no employer subsidy is paid.

     the surviving dependents’ benefits defined in dr. stephan petri’s service agreement are in line with
     the provisions outlined above in relation to jürg oleas.

     markus hüllmann
     the contractual pension benefits of markus hüllmann, member of the executive board, amount to a
     maximum of eur 200 thousand p.a. under this arrangement, a pension will be paid once the executive
     board service agreement ends when or after markus hüllmann reaches the age of 62 or if he becomes
     permanently unable to work. should markus hüllmann’s executive board service agreement end
     before one of the above conditions for payment of a pension is met, he will enjoy vested rights to a
     maximum annual pension of eur 200 thousand that may be reduced subject to the ratio of his actual
     term of service as a member of the executive board to the term of service required for obtaining his




72                                         gea group annual report 2014

                                           combined group management report / remuneration report




full pension benefits, and that becomes payable once he reaches the age of 62. the ongoing pension is
adjusted annually in line with the consumer price index.

pension subsidies of up to half of the income threshold for contribution assessment under the statutory
pension insurance scheme are granted to markus hüllmann against evidence of the costs incurred. in
addition, markus hüllmann is entitled to personal contributions under the deferred compensation
pension scheme in connection with his participation in gea’s executive pension scheme prior to his
appointment to the executive board.

in addition, markus hüllmann is entitled to make a personal contribution per fiscal year to a deferred
compensation pension scheme for executive board members. no employer subsidy is paid.

the surviving dependents’ benefits defined in markus hüllmann’s service agreement are in line with
the provisions outlined above in relation to jürg oleas.

as the contractual pension commitments made to the members of the executive board had only been
partly protected against insolvency, namely in the amount of the sum covered by the pensions-
sicherungs-verein (pension protection fund – psv), the supervisory board decided to take out pension
plan reinsurance policies to secure the proportion of the pension benefits not covered by the psv for
the benefit of the individual executive board members. at the same time, the members of the executive
board were granted a capitalization option. the level of the capitalization amount is equivalent to the
pension liabilities ascertained by applying the basis of calculation used for the purpose of preparing
the consolidated financial statements. such capitalization option may be exercised upon retirement,
but no earlier than age 62. it will be possible to exercise this option in part or several times. any
exercise of such capitalization option will entail a corresponding reduction of entitlements under the
contractually guaranteed benefits for surviving dependents.

pension scheme contributions and provisions for pension obligations
the company has set aside pension provisions for the future entitlements of executive board members.
the amounts added to such pension provisions for active executive board members in accordance
with ifrs are listed individually in the table below as of the end of the fiscal year 2014. the
corresponding amounts comprise service cost and interest cost.

                                                                           pension benefits p.a.
                                                                             (as of 12/31/2014)               annual pension                       additions to          present value of
                                                                           (annual entitlements          entitlements earned                pension provisions           pension benefits
(in eur)                                                                     at start of pension)          as of 12/31/2014                 in fiscal year 2014         as of 12/31/2014
jürg oleas                                                                                360,000                      273,333                           514,965                8,280,734
dr. helmut schmale                                                                        200,000                      170,227                           277,738                5,294,237
dr. stephan petri *                                                                       245,535                      158,706                           248,134                5,469,005
markus hüllmann *                                                                         216,912                      157,273                           154,120                4,563,583
total                                                                                  1,022,447                       759,539                        1,194,957               23,607,559

*) along with their pension benefits as members of the executive board in the amount of eur 200 thousand, each, dr. stephan petri and markus hüllmann are entitled to benefits from own
   contributions for deferred compensation in connection with their participation in the pension scheme for gea executives prior to their appointment as members of the executive board. the
   amount for dr. petri is eur 33,855 and eur 16,912 for markus hüllmann (calculated based on a retirement age of 62 respectively). due to his participation in the deferred compensation
   system for members of the executive board, dr. petri is entitled to benefits in the amount of eur 11,680 (calculated based on a retirement age of 62).



remuneration of former executive board members and their surviving dependents
in the fiscal year 2014, former members of the executive board and their surviving dependents received
remunerations in the amount of eur 5,168 thousand (previous year eur 5,129 thousand) from gea
group. as of december 31, 2014, gea group had set up pension provisions totaling eur 64,494 thousand
(previous year eur 61,715 thousand) for former executive board members and their surviving dependents.




                                                                      gea group annual report 2014                                                                                             73

                               combined group management report / remuneration report




     termination rights, premature termination of an executive board member‘s
     appointment, change of control events and effects on remuneration
     the chairman of the executive board has a unilateral right of termination if the supervisory board
     revokes his appointment as chairman of the executive board. should he exercise his unilateral right of
     termination and leave the executive board, he is entitled to receive the corresponding fixed salary for the
     remaining months of his contractual term, but no longer than 8 months.

     if the appointment of an executive board member is revoked for good cause with legal effect in accordance
     with section 84 para. 3 of the aktiengesetz (aktg – german stock corporation act) or an executive board
     member validly resigns from office in accordance with section 84 para. 3 of the aktg, the executive board
     member’s service agreement ends on expiry of the statutory notice period under section 622 para.1, 2 of
     the bürgerliches gesetzbuch (bgb – german civil code).

     in this event, the respective executive board member first of all receives the bonus he has earned and is
     entitled to up to the date of his departure. for calculating this bonus, an overall degree of target achievement
     in relation to the individual component is ascertained on the basis of the targets achieved by the executive
     board member up to the time of his departure. subsequently, the corresponding pro rata bonus under the
     individual component is calculated by setting up the ratio of this overall degree of target achievement to the
     target amount set for the entire fiscal year. the pro rata bonus under the multi-year component for the relevant
     fiscal year is computed by applying the principle of pro rata temporis. as for annual tranches outstanding
     under the long-term share price component, a distinction is made between annual tranches in relation to
     which the first fiscal year (one-year vesting period) of the three-year performance period has not yet passed,
     and annual tranches in relation to which the first fiscal year has already passed. in the latter case, the pro rata
     bonus is fully vested and calculated without applying the principle of pro rata temporis, whereupon it will be
     paid out after the three-year performance period has elapsed. if the first fiscal year (one-year vesting period)
     has not yet passed, the pro rata bonus is ascertained by applying the principle of pro rata temporis (ratio of the
     actual period of service attained during the one-year vesting period to the full relevant one-year vesting
     period), whereupon it will be paid out after the three-year performance period.

     in addition, the respective executive board member receives a severance payment amounting to the total
     remuneration agreed for the rest of the contractual term as a compensation for his premature departure
     from the company. for calculating the corresponding bonus entitlement, an 85 percent degree of target
     achievement is assumed in relation to the respective target amounts set for bonus entitlements that have
     not yet vested and have been accrued over the course of the current year or further years, as the case may
     be. the total remuneration for the remaining term is limited to a maximum of two full years of
     remuneration (severance payment cap). in calculating the cap on severance payment, reference is made to
     the executive board member’s respective total annual remuneration received during the two calendar
     years preceding the termination of the service agreement.

     if the executive board service agreement is unilaterally terminated without good cause or terminated by
     the company for good cause, any and all outstanding annual tranches not paid out under the long-term
     share price component will be forfeited. moreover, there is no entitlement to any severance payment in
     the event of the company exercising its right of lawful extraordinary termination of the executive board
     service agreement.

     in the event of a change of control, the executive board can opt for an early payment at target value of any
     outstanding, fully vested tranches under the share price component. this option shall apply regardless of
     whether or not the respective executive board member leaves the company in connection with the change
     of control event. a change of control is deemed to have occurred as soon as the company is notified that a




74                                             gea group annual report 2014

                                           combined group management report / remuneration report




shareholder has reached or exceeded 50 percent or 75 percent of the voting rights in the company in
accordance with section 21 of the wertpapierhandelsgesetz (wphg – german securities trading act), that
an intercompany agreement is entered into with the company as a dependent company in accordance
with sections 291 ff. of the aktg, or that absorption under section 319 of the aktg or a change of legal form
of the company in accordance with the umwandlungsgesetz (umwg – german reorganization act) is
resolved with legal effect. in the event of a change of control, the executive board members have no right
to unilaterally terminate their service agreements.

remuneration of the members of the executive board

total remunerations in 2014 and 2013
during the year under review, total remunerations paid to active executive board members of
gea group aktiengesellschaft amounted to eur 6,579,456 and comprised both a fixed component of
eur 3,025,000 and a variable bonus of eur 3,415,286. the bonus attributable to the long-term share
price component is based on the fair value at grant date (january 1, 2014) and amounted to eur 215,275
for jürg oleas, eur 116,249 for dr. schmale, eur 94,721 for markus hüllman, and eur 94,721 for
dr. petri, i.e. a total of eur 520,966 during the year under review.

in the fiscal year 2013, the total remuneration paid to active executive board members amounted to
eur 5,877,650 and comprised both a fixed component of eur 3,101,745 and a variable bonus of
eur 2,601,858. the bonus accounted for by the long-term share price component was based on the fair
value of the entitlement at grant date (january 1, 2013, and april 1, 2013, for markus hüllmann) and
amounted to eur 175,475 for jürg oleas, eur 94,757 for dr. helmut schmale, eur 26,583 for niels
graugaard, eur 50,853 for markus hüllmann, as well as eur 77,209 for dr. stephan petri, i.e. a total
of eur 424,877 in the fiscal year 2013.

the following table shows an individualized breakdown of the fixed remuneration, the variable
component and other income:

                                         fixed                                                                                      non-cash                pension
(eur)                             remuneration                            variable components                                        benefits              subsidies                  total
                                                          individual                multi-year        long-term share
                                                        component                  component         price component1
jürg oleas                            1,250,000             648,500                   549,500                    215,275               24,244                        –         2,687,519
 previous year                        1,250,000             474,466                   419,946                    175,475               25,414                        –         2,345,301
dr. helmut schmale                      675,000             350,190                   296,730                    116,249               44,978                  6,747           1,489,894
 previous year                          675,000             256,211                   226,771                     94,757               45,953                  6,448           1,305,140
niels graugaard
(previous year)³                        214,245              56,808                     54,082                    26,583               16,601                26,781               395,100
dr. stephan petri 2                     550,000             280,500                   241,780                     94,721               21,168                  6,747           1,194,916
 previous year                          550,000             208,765                   184,776                     77,209               22,143                  6,586           1,049,479
markus hüllmann 2                       550,000             285,340                   241,780                     94,721               35,286                        –         1,207,127
 previous year                          412,500             156,574                   138,582                     50,853               24,121                        –            782,630
total                                 3,025,000          1,564,530                  1,329,790                   520,966              125,676                 13,494            6,579,456
 previous year                        3,101,745          1,152,824                  1,024,157                   424,877              134,232                 39,815            5,877,650

1) during the year under review, no payment under the long-term share price component was made, as the latter is computed over a three-year period between 2014 and 2016. the bonus
   payable under the long-term share price component is based on the fair value at grant date (january 1, 2014).
2) based on their participation in the gea performance share plan 2010 during the period prior to their appointment to the executive board, dr. stephan petri and markus hüllmann received
   additional amounts of eur 74,309 or eur 35,566, respectively, in the fiscal year 2013. apart from that, markus hüllmann received a bonus in the amount of eur 63,824 for his term as
   president of the mechanical equipment segment between january 1, 2013 and march 31, 2013.
3) termination of service agreement in april 2013.




                                                                      gea group annual report 2014                                                                                            75

                                       combined group management report / remuneration report




     supplementary disclosures on share-based remuneration for the period 2012 to 2014
     in the fiscal years 2012 until 2014, share-based remuneration for the executive board was granted in the
     form of a long-term share price component. detailed information on existing entitlements of executive
     board members under these remuneration components is outlined in the table below.

     long-term share price component                                                 fair value as of                     fair value as of
     (eur)                                                                              12/31/2014                           12/31/2013
     jürg oleas                                                                          1,110,575                                798,775
     dr. helmut schmale                                                                    596,289                                427,922
     niels graugaard                                                                       248,135                                241,448
     dr. stephan petri                                                                     425,926                                288,830
     markus hüllmann                                                                       283,157                                150,860
     total                                                                               2,664,082                              1,907,835


     supplementary disclosures on share-based remuneration for 2010 and 2011
     in the fiscal years 2010 and 2011, the members of the executive board received their share-based
     remuneration in the form of phantom shares. the remuneration system applicable until the end of the
     fiscal year 2011 provided for a performance-related remuneration component that was awarded as a
     bonus. only half of this bonus was payable with the first salary payment following the date of the
     company’s supervisory board meeting convened to adopt the financial statements for the relevant
     fiscal year (“short-term bonus”), while the second half of the bonus was converted into phantom shares
     in the company whose payout amount was determined upon expiry of a holding period of three years
     (“long-term bonus”). detailed clarifications on the remuneration system applicable until the end of the
     fiscal year 2011 are provided in the 2011 annual report (page 65 ff.) that may be accessed on the
     company’s website (www.gea.com).

     detailed information on existing entitlements of executive board members from long-term bonuses
     awarded for the fiscal years 2010 and 2011 may be inferred from the table below. the long-term bonuses
     for the fiscal year 2010 were paid out during the year under review. in addition, niels graugaard
     received his long-term bonus for the fiscal year 2011 during the year under review. due to the
     termination of his service agreement in april 2013, the holding period applicable to the phantom
     shares under the long-term bonus for 2011 went down to one year commencing on the day of
     termination pursuant to the terms and conditions set out in the contract.

     phantom shares                                                        number of awarded shares       fair value (in eur)
                                                                                  2010 and/or 2011      12/31/2014              12/31/2013
     jürg oleas
      2010 tranche (number of phantom shares in 2010; paid out in 2014)                       26,589             –                943,766
      2011 tranche (number of phantom shares in 2011)                                         40,997     1,570,185               1,463,593
     dr. helmut schmale
      2010 tranche (number of phantom shares in 2010; paid out in 2014)                       16,120             –                572,173
      2011 tranche (number of phantom shares in 2011)                                         20,498      785,073                 731,779
     niels graugaard
      2010 tranche (number of phantom shares in 2010; paid out in 2014)                       15,178             –                538,737
      2011 tranche (number of phantom shares in 2011; paid out in 2014)                       19,965             –                712,751
     total                                                                                  139,347     2,355,258               4,962,799



     in the fiscal year 2014, the expenditure for share-based remuneration (i.e. the sum total of the fair value
     of share-based remuneration awarded in the fiscal year in question as of balance sheet date and the
     change in fair value in relation to entitlements under share-based remuneration in the fiscal year in
     question) recognized in the consolidated ifrs financial statements amounted to eur 437 thousand




76                                                        gea group annual report 2014

                                           combined group management report / remuneration report




for jürg oleas (previous year eur 1,383 thousand), eur 233 thousand for dr. schmale (previous year
eur 745 thousand), eur –3 thousand for niels graugaard (previous year eur 546 thousand),
eur 137 thousand for dr. petri (previous year eur 258 thousand) and eur 132 thousand for markus
hüllmann (previous year eur 151 thousand).

further information on the awarded phantom shares and the long-term share price component is
outlined in note 6.3.4 (see page 183 ff.) to the consolidated financial statements.

supplemental disclosures on recognized expenditure and paid out remuneration
in the financial year 2014 expenditure in the aggregate amount of eur 8,189,727 (previous year
eur 11,078,091) was recognized for the members of the executive board. besides expenditure for fixed
and variable remuneration, this also comprises non-cash benefits, pension subsidies, additions to
pension provisions (service and interest cost) as well as changes in value of the entitlements to share-
based remuneration which were recognized as interest expense. in the year under review remuneration
components in the aggregate amount of eur 7,992,205 (previous year eur 5,063,483) were paid out.
the payout amounts include non-performance-related remuneration components and disbursements
of variable remuneration for the previous year as well as amounts disbursed in the year under review
for variable multi-year remuneration components.


(eur)                                                                                                                   recognized expenditure                   paid out remuneration
jürg oleas                                                                                                                              3,424,448                               3,115,316
 previous year                                                                                                                          4,046,250                               2,007,414
dr. helmut schmale                                                                                                                      1,884,471                               1,783,620
 previous year                                                                                                                          2,205,578                               1,115,361
niels graugaard 1                                                                                                                            -3,440                             1,241,371
 previous year                                                                                                                          1,004,813                                 737,478
dr. stephan petri 3                                                                                                                     1,485,425                                 971,456
 previous year                                                                                                                          1,484,636                                 766,609
markus hüllmann 2, 3                                                                                                                    1,398,823                                 880,442
 previous year                                                                                                                          2,336,814                                 436,621
total                                                                                                                                   8,189,727                               7,992,205
 previous year                                                                                                                         11,078,091                               5,063,483

1) termination of service agreement in april 2013.
2) member of the executive board since april 2013.
3) based on their participation in the gea performance share plan 2010 during the period prior to their appointment to the executive board, dr. stephan petri and markus hüllmann received
   additional amounts of eur 74,309 or eur 35,566, respectively, in the fiscal year 2013. apart from that, markus hüllmann received a bonus in the amount of eur 63,824 for his term as
   president of the mechanical equipment segment between january 1, 2013 and march 31, 2013.




                                                                      gea group annual report 2014                                                                                           77

                                                combined group management report / remuneration report




     executive board remuneration in accordance with the model tables under gcgc
     model table 1 on section 4.2.5 para. 3 (1st bullet point) gcgc “value of the benefits granted for the year
     under review”

                                                                                              jürg oleas                                              dr. helmut schmale
                                                                                chairman of the executive board                                      chief financial officer
     benefits granted
                                                                                                             min.           max.                                           min.           max.
                                                                              2013           2014          (2014)        (2014) 2           2013           2014          (2014)        (2014) 2
     fixed remuneration                                                1,250,000 1,250,000 1,250,000 1,250,000                          675,000        675,000         675,000        675,000
     fringe benefits                                                       25,414          24,244         24,244          24,244         45,953          44,978         44,978          44,978
     pension subsidies                                                             0              0               0              0         6,448           6,747          6,747           6,747
     total non-performance-related components                          1,275,414 1,274,244 1,274,244 1,274,244                          727,401        726,725         726,725        726,725
     one-year variable remuneration                                      500,000         500,000                  0 1,000,000           270,000        270,000                  0     540,000
       individual component                                               500,000        500,000                  0 1,000,000           270,000        270,000                  0     540,000
     multi-year variable remuneration                                    675,475         715,275                  0 2,000,000           364,757        386,249                  0 1,080,000
       multi-year component                                               500,000        500,000                  0 1,250,000           270,000        270,000                  0     675,000
       long-term share price component
       (tranche 2013)1                                                    175,475                 0               0              0       94,757                 0               0              0
       long-term share price component
       (tranche 2014)1                                                             0     215,275                  0     750,000                  0     116,249                  0     405,000
     total performance-related components                              1,175,475 1,215,275                        0 3,000,000           634,757        656,249                  0 1,620,000
     service cost                                                         356,385        363,741         363,741        363,741         152,597        166,152         166,152        166,152
     total remuneration (gcgc)                                         2,807,274 2,853,360 1,637,985 4,637,985 1,514,755 1,549,126                                     892,877 2,512,877

     1) the bonus attributable to the long-term share price component is based on the fair value of the entitlement at grant date. grant date for the tranche 2013 was 01/01/2013 (and 04/01/2013
        respectively for markus hüllmann) and for the tranche 2014 01/012014.
     2) not taking into account the possibility of granting a special discretionary bonus.




                                                                                         markus hüllmann                                                dr. stephan petri
                                                                                 member of the executive board                                 member of the executive board
     benefits granted                                                                    since 04/01/2013
                                                                                                             min.           max.                                           min.           max.
                                                                              2013           2014          (2014)        (2014) 2           2013           2014          (2014)        (2014) 2
     fixed remuneration                                                   412,500        550,000         550,000        550,000         550,000        550,000         550,000        550,000
     fringe benefits                                                       24,121          35,286         35,286          35,286         22,143          21,168         21,168          21,168
     pension subsidies                                                             0              0               0              0         6,586           6,747          6,747           6,747
     total non-performance-related components                            436,621         585,286         585,286        585,286         578,729        577,915         577,915        577,915
     one-year variable remuneration                                      165,000         220,000                  0     440,000         220,000        220,000                  0     440,000
       individual component                                               165,000        220,000                  0     440,000         220,000        220,000                  0     440,000
     multi-year variable remuneration                                    215,853         314,721                  0     880,000         297,209        314,721                  0     880,000
       multi-year component                                               165,000        220,000                  0     550,000         220,000        220,000                  0     550,000
       long-term share price component
       (tranche 2013) 1                                                    50,853                 0               0              0       77,209                 0               0              0
       long-term share price component
       (tranche 2014) 1                                                            0       94,721                 0     330,000                  0       94,721                 0     330,000
     total performance-related components                                380,853         534,721                  0 1,320,000           517,209        534,721                  0 1,320,000
     service cost                                                      1,427,383           94,387         94,387          94,387        202,773        178,410         178,410        178,410
     total remuneration (gcgc)                                         2,244,857 1,214,394               679,673 1,999,673 1,298,711 1,291,046                         756,325 2,076,325

     1) the bonus attributable to the long-term share price component is based on the fair value of the entitlement at grant date. grant date for the tranche 2013 was 01/01/2013 (and 04/01/2013
        respectively for markus hüllmann) and for the tranche 2014 01/012014.
     2) not taking into account the possibility of granting a special discretionary bonus.




78                                                                        gea group annual report 2014

                                            combined group management report / remuneration report




                                                                                                                                                     niels graugaard 1
                                                                                                                                            member of the executive board
benefits granted
                                                                                                                                                     until 04/18/2013
                                                                                                                                                         2013
fixed remuneration                                                                                                                                   214,245
fringe benefits                                                                                                                                       16,601
pension subsidies                                                                                                                                     26,781
total non-performance-related components                                                                                                            257,627
one-year variable remuneration                                                                                                                        56,808
individual component                                                                                                                                  56,808
multi-year variable remuneration                                                                                                                      80,665
  multi-year component                                                                                                                                54,082
  long-term share price component
  (tranche 2013) 2                                                                                                                                    26,583
  long-term share price component
  (tranche 2014) 2                                                                                                                                            0
total performance-related components                                                                                                                137,473
service cost                                                                                                                                          80,560
total remuneration (gcgc)                                                                                                                           475,660

1) regarding his variable remuneration for the financial year 2013 and due to his retirement during the year 2013, it was agreed with niels graugaard that the amounts respectively defined for
   the financial year 2012 were paid out on a pro rata temporis basis for the individual component and the multi-year component. for the valuation of the long-term share price component the
   pro rata temporis target amount for the financial year 2012 was taken as a basis.
2) the bonus attributable to the long-term share price component is based on the fair value of the entitlement at grant date. grant date for the tranche 2013 was 01/01/2013 (and 04/01/2013
   respectively for markus hüllmann) and for the tranche 2014 01/012014.




model table 2 on section 4.2.5 para. 3 (2nd bullet point) gcgc “allocation for the year under review”

                                                                                          jürg oleas                                               dr. helmut schmale
                                                                            chairman of the executive board                                       chief financial officer
allocation

                                                                                          2013                           2014                            2013                           2014
fixed remuneration                                                                 1,250,000                       1,250,000                         675,000                        675,000
fringe benefits                                                                        25,414                          24,244                         45,953                          44,978
pension subsidies                                                                              0                              0                         6,448                           6,747
total non-performance-related components                                           1,275,414                      1,274,244                         727,401                         726,725
one-year variable remuneration                                                       474,466                         648,500                        256,211                         350,190
  individual component                                                                474,466                        648,500                         256,211                        350,190
multi-year variable remuneration                                                     419,946                      1,496,160                         226,771                         870,643
  multi-year component                                                                419,946                        549,500                         226,771                        296,730
  phantom shares (tranche 2010)                                                                0                     946,660                                  0                     573,913
  phantom shares (tranche 2011)                                                                0                              0                               0                              0
total performance-related components                                                 894,412                      2,144,660                         482,982                       1,220,833
service                                                                               356,385                        363,741                         152,597                        166,152
total remuneration (gcgc)                                                          2,526,211                      3,782,645                       1,362,980                       2,113,710




                                                                      gea group annual report 2014                                                                                                79

                                                combined group management report / remuneration report




                                                                                        markus hüllmann                                                dr. stephan petri
                                                                                member of the executive board                                 member of the executive board
     allocation
                                                                                        since 04/01/2013
                                                                                            2013                           2014                           2013                           2014
     fixed remuneration                                                                 412,500                        550,000                        550,000                        550,000
     fringe benefits                                                                      24,121                         35,286                         22,143                         21,168
     pension subsidies                                                                           0                              0                        6,586                          6,747
     total non-performance-related components                                           436,621                        585,286                        578,729                        577,915
     one-year variable remuneration                                                     156,574                        285,340                        208,765                        280,500
       individual component                                                             156,574                        285,340                        208,765                        280,500
     multi-year variable remuneration                                                   138,582                        241,780                        184,776                        241,780
       multi-year component                                                             138,582                        241,780                        184,776                        241,780
       phantom shares (tranche 2010)                                                             0                              0                              0                                 0
       phantom shares (tranche 2011)                                                             0                              0                              0                                 0
     total performance-related components                                               295,156                        527,120                        393,541                        522,280
     service                                                                          1,427,383                          94,387                       202,773                        178,410
     total remuneration (gcgc)                                                        2,159,160                      1,206,793                      1,175,043                     1,278,605




                                                                                                                                                       niels graugaard
                                                                                                                                              member of the executive board
     allocation
                                                                                                                                                      until 04/18/2013
                                                                                                                                                          2013                           2014
     fixed remuneration                                                                                                                               214,245                                    0
     fringe benefits                                                                                                                                    16,601                                   0
     pension subsidies                                                                                                                                  26,781                                   0
     total non-performance-related components                                                                                                         257,627                                    0
     one-year variable remuneration                                                                                                                     56,808                                   0
       individual component                                                                                                                             56,808                                   0
     multi-year variable remuneration                                                                                                                   54,082                    1,241,371
       multi-year component                                                                                                                             54,082                                   0
       phantom shares (tranche 2010)                                                                                                                           0                     540,385
       phantom shares (tranche 2011)1                                                                                                                          0                     700,986
     total performance-related components                                                                                                             110,890                     1,241,371
     service                                                                                                                                            80,560                                   0
     total remuneration (gcgc)                                                                                                                        449,077                     1,241,371

     1) due to the termination of niels graugaard’s service agreement in april 2013, the holding period for the phantom shares under the 2011 long-term bonus was reduced to one year from the
        effective date of termination in accordance with the terms and conditions of the agreement. for this reason, the relevant amount was already paid out in 2014.




80                                                                       gea group annual report 2014

                                           combined group management report / remuneration report




remuneration of the supervisory board members
the remuneration of the supervisory board members comprises solely a fixed compensation. it does
not include any performance-related component.

during the year under review, the expenses incurred for the supervisory board amounted to
eur 1,159 thousand (previous year eur 1,168 thousand). under section 15 para. 1 of the articles of
association, each member of the supervisory board receives a fixed annual fee of eur 50 thousand
payable after the end of each fiscal year, in addition to the reimbursement of expenses. the chairman of
the supervisory board receives two and a half times, his deputy one and a half times this amount. in
accordance with section 15 para. 2 of the articles of association, members of the presiding committee and
the audit committee each receive an additional eur 35 thousand. the chairman of each of these
committees receives twice the amount. no separate remuneration is paid to members of the mediation
committee and the nomination committee. members who join or leave the supervisory board or its
committees during the year only receive a pro rata amount for the period of their membership. under
section 15 para. 3 of the articles of association, the supervisory board members also receive an attendance
fee of eur 1 thousand for each meeting of the supervisory board, the presiding committee and the audit
committee that they have attended. in the fiscal year 2014, the supervisory board held seven meetings, the
presiding committee met on four and the audit committee was convened on five occasions.

the following table shows the individual remuneration and its respective components for members of
the supervisory board, the presiding committee and the audit committee for 2014 compared with the
previous year:

                                                                             supervisory             presiding
                                                                                  board            committee            audit committee                attendance
(eur)                                                                      remuneration          remuneration              remuneration                       fees                      total
dr. heraeus                                                                      125,000                70,000                       35,000                 14,000                244,000
 previous year                                                                   125,000                70,000                       35,000                 15,000                245,000
siegers *                                                                          75,000               35,000                              –               11,000                121,000
 previous year                                                                     75,000               35,000                              –               11,000                121,000
bastaki                                                                            50,000                       –                           –                 6,000                 56,000
 previous year                                                                     50,000                       –                           –                 6,000                 56,000
prof. dr. bauer                                                                    50,000                       –                           –                 7,000                 57,000
 previous year                                                                     50,000                       –                           –                 8,000                 58,000
eberlein                                                                           50,000                       –                    70,000                 12,000                132,000
 previous year                                                                     50,000                       –                    70,000                 12,000                132,000
gröbel *                                                                           50,000               35,000                              –               11,000                  96,000
 previous year                                                                     50,000               35,000                              –               12,000                  97,000
hunger * (until october 31, 2014)                                                  41,667                       –                    29,167                 11,000                  81,834
 previous year                                                                     50,000                       –                    35,000                 12,000                  97,000
kämpfert                                                                           50,000                       –                           –                 6,000                 56,000
 previous year                                                                     50,000                       –                           –                 7,000                 57,000
kerkemeier *                                                                       50,000                       –                           –                 7,000                 57,000
 previous year                                                                     50,000                       –                           –                 6,000                 56,000
krönchen * (since november 5, 2014)                                                  7,808                      –                           –                 1,000                     8,808
 previous year                                                                             –                    –                           –                       –                      –
löw *                                                                              50,000                       –                    35,000                 13,000                  98,000
 previous year                                                                     50,000                       –                    35,000                 12,000                  97,000
dr. perlet                                                                         50,000               35,000                              –               11,000                  96,000
 previous year                                                                     50,000               35,000                              –               10,000                  95,000
spence                                                                             50,000                       –                           –                 5,000                 55,000
 previous year                                                                     50,000                       –                           –                 7,000                 57,000
total                                                                            699,475               175,000                     169,167                 115,000              1,158,642
 previous year                                                                   700,000               175,000                     175,000                 118,000              1,168,000

*) the employee representatives from the works council and the union remit their respective remuneration to the hans böckler foundation in accordance with the applicable guidelines.




                                                                      gea group annual report 2014                                                                                              81

                        combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




     report on risks and opportunities
     risk and opportunity management targets

     gea group’s ability to leverage its growth and earnings potential depends on it using the opportunities
     that arise, although this in turn is associated as a matter of principle with business risks. taking
     calculated risks is therefore part of gea group’s corporate strategy. to meet the objective of sustainably
     increasing enterprise value, it is necessary, as far as possible, to enter into only those risks that are
     calculable and matched by greater opportunities. this requires active risk and opportunity
     management, which avoids inappropriate risks, monitors and manages risks entered into, and ensures
     that opportunities are identified and utilized in good time.

     gea group’s strategic and medium-term planning are key components of the way in which it manages
     opportunities and risks. these processes are used to prepare decisions on core technologies and
     markets, along with the corresponding allocation of resources. the objective is to ensure stability by
     diversifying and by concentrating on markets of the future. at the same time, developments that may
     jeopardize gea group’s continuing existence can be identified at an early stage.

     opportunities and risks arising from significant operating decisions – for example whether to take on
     orders or to implement capital expenditure projects – are assessed and hence actively managed by the
     relevant departments and decision-makers at all group levels in a decision-making process that takes
     materiality criteria into account.

     overall assessment of the risk position and changes compared with
     the previous year

     the identified risks from operating activities and the negative impact on earnings that could result
     have changed only immaterially as against the previous year. as in previous years, the structure of
     gea group with its regional and industry diversification offers protection to a large extent against
     individual risks clustering into a single risk that could threaten the group’s continued existence as a
     going concern. in addition, gea group is not dependent on individual business partners, be they
     either suppliers or customers.

     with regard to discontinued operations, the risks arising from the sale of the plant engineering
     business were reduced by the agreement reached with the purchaser of lurgi and the further progress
     made in completing the lentjes projects. measurement uncertainties still exist in relation to individual
     legal disputes. these are described in greater detail in the “legal risks” section below. in addition, risks
     arising from the former operations of ruhr-zink gmbh were transferred to a municipal development
     corporation belonging to the city of datteln.

     as part of its “gea 2020” corporate strategy, the company decided to sharpen the focus of its portfolio
     in order to further strengthen its position as a leading system provider for the food industry and other
     sophisticated process industries. significant progress was made in this area in 2014 with the successful
     sale of the gea heat exchangers segment.

     overall, no risks to gea group or gea group aktiengesellschaft were identified that, alone or in
     combination with other risks, could endanger the company’s continued existence as a going concern.




82                                          gea group annual report 2014

                      combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




risk and opportunity management system

risk management system
all group companies are integrated into gea group’s risk management system. quarterly risk reports
and size-related ad hoc risk reports aim to ensure that segment and group management decision-
makers are informed promptly about material existing risks and potential risks affecting future
development.

the basic principles of an orderly risk management system and the related workflows are documented
in group-wide risk guidelines, which are broken down and structured in greater detail regularly by the
segments to meet their specific requirements. these guidelines also document mandatory risk
reporting and management requirements. compliance with these requirements is monitored regularly
by the internal audit function.

risk management instruments such as the risk assessment and advisory committees (raacs) are
supplemented by a reporting system encompassing evaluated risk reports, consolidated financial
projections, monthly consolidated financial statements, and regular meetings between the executive
board and the segment heads to enable the various risks to be identified and analyzed.




risk management organization


         auditors                          supervisory        audit committee
                                              board
                                                                                                      internal
                                                                                                       audit
       risk board                                  executive board


                                                           gea
                                                          group




           farm                 mechanical                    process             refrigeration              others
       technologies             equipment                   engineering           technologies             (incl. ag)



                 legal                    legal                       legal                  legal
           legal                    legal                       legal                  legal
    legal entity entity      legal entity entity         legal entity entity    legal entity entity
    entity                   entity                      entity                 entity




gea group’s risk management system is based on the management hierarchy. risks are reported to
the next highest management level using predefined thresholds.

the specific requirements of the group’s project business are addressed by risk boards at segment and
group management level. before a binding quotation is submitted or an agreement signed, the
commercial and contractual terms of potential orders are examined in detail by specialists from
various departments so that risks that cannot be controlled are avoided. the risk management system
therefore already comes into play before risks arise, in the form of a critical examination of the
opportunity and risk profile of quotations. no agreement may be signed if the profile is inappropriate.




                                             gea group annual report 2014                                               83

                       combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




     the risk management system is not only designed to identify risks that endanger the group’s continued
     existence at an early stage, as required by law; it also captures all risks that might have a material
     adverse effect on the operating result of a segment or the group.

     additional modules were added to gea group’s risk management system in fiscal year 2013 in order to
     systematically capture risks and opportunities not covered by the existing systems; these make it
     possible to assess risk on a holistic basis.

     information is gathered and consolidated in an iterative process across all organizational units in a
     “risk & chance scorecard.” to identify risks that could endanger the continued existence of gea
     group as a going concern, all issues are assessed for their financial materiality (on a gross basis, i.e.
     excluding any risk-mitigating measures) and their probability of occurrence. in addition, the timing
     (less than or more than one year) of each risk is individually assessed.

     the following criteria are used to determine materiality:



     opportunities and risks
                                                                              probability

                                              < 40%                           40 - 60%                              > 60%
          low            insignificant           l                                 l                                 m
          middle           moderate              l                                m                                   h
          high          considerable            m                                 h                                   h




     insignificant                       impact on financial and earnings position between eur 0.25 - 2.5 million
     moderate                            impact on financial and earnings position between eur 2.5 - 10 million
     considerable                        impact on financial and earnings position > eur 10 million




     this makes it possible to classify both risks and opportunities in accordance with their impact on
     gea group. issues with short-term relevance that have a high (“h”) materiality and probability rating
     are initially classified as a significant risk or significant opportunity.

     in addition, the gea demand index (gdi) is used to collate estimates by gea group’s market experts
     of expected short- to medium-term market developments. the gdi makes it possible to obtain an early
     indication of positive or negative market developments in the industries and regions that are relevant
     for gea group.

     the data gathered using the risk & chance scorecard and the gdi is processed along with other
     internal and external information in a scenario and sensitivity analysis, which simulates the potential
     impact on the group’s liquidity (see page 90).

     adequate provisions have been recognized for all identifiable risks arising from the group’s operating
     activities provided that the recognition criteria for liabilities have been met. the following section
     provides details of existing risks. risks that are not yet known or currently regarded as insignificant
     may also have an adverse effect on business activities.




84                                          gea group annual report 2014

                  combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




internal control system
gea group’s internal control system (ics) is based on the coso framework and comprises the risk
management system (rms) as well as other principles, measures, and rules (other components of the
ics). while the rms aims at identifying and classifying risks, the components comprising the rest of
the ics serve primarily to prevent or mitigate risk using control measures. the internal audit function
is another component of the ics.

the rms comprises principles, measures, and rules relating to the early risk recognition system in
accordance with section 91(2) of the aktiengesetz (aktg – german stock corporation act) as well as
those relating to other components of the risk management system. in the other components of the
ics, a distinction is made between principles, measures, and rules that are related or unrelated to
financial reporting.

gea group’s ics relevant for financial reporting encompasses all principles, measures, and rules that
ensure the proper approval and recording of business transactions for monthly, quarterly, and annual
financial statements. the goal of the implemented ics is to ensure reliable financial reporting,
compliance with the relevant laws and standards, and the cost-effectiveness of business workflows.

in addition to gea group aktiengesellschaft, all group companies are integrated into the ics.

the following key principles of gea group’s ics must be applied in all business functions: clearly
defined areas of responsibility, the separation of functions in all areas of activity, dual signature
policies, compliance with guidelines, instructions, and procedural requirements (manuals), the
obligation to obtain comparative offers before awarding contracts, protection of data from unauthorized
access, and the holding of training sessions to ensure uniform procedures within the group.

key measures and rules that are relevant for financial reporting and are designed to ensure uniform
accounting at all subsidiaries are: accounting and account allocation manuals, a uniform chart of
accounts, consolidation and calculation manuals, the approval of entries using the dual control
principle, and the fact that certain entries can only be made by selected persons. to prevent errors,
standardized it systems are used in gea group’s accounting, financial control, and finance functions
in all group companies. all guidelines and it systems are updated on a continuous basis to reflect legal
and business requirements.

compliance with the principles, measures, and rules set out in the ics as described above is monitored
systematically; this takes the form of regular reviews by gea group’s internal audit function, which
reports directly to the executive board and regularly submits reports to the audit committee. the
results enable the elimination of defects identified at the companies reviewed and the ongoing
enhancement of the ics in the group.

overall, the ics aims to ensure the early identification, assessment, and management of those risks
and opportunities that could materially influence the company’s ability to achieve its strategic,
operating, financial, and compliance-related objectives.




                                      gea group annual report 2014                                         85

                       combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




     legal risks
     legal risks are not quantified in detail since disclosing the specific probability of occurrence could
     have a material effect on the group’s position in current litigation or other legal disputes.

     dörries scharmann ag insolvency proceedings
     an action brought by the insolvency administrator of dörries scharmann ag against gea group
     aktiengesellschaft is pending at the düsseldorf regional court. the former metallgesellschaft ag, the
     legal predecessor to gea group aktiengesellschaft, held an interest in schiess ag, which later became
     dörries scharmann ag. on the basis of that interest, the insolvency administrator is asserting various
     claims under company law, in particular for equity substitution, which amount to approximately
     eur 20 million including possible interest. gea group aktiengesellschaft considers the claims that
     have been asserted to be unfounded. after the senior expert appointed by the court to decide matters
     relating to equity substitution fully confirmed gea group aktiengesellschaft’s opinion, the higher
     regional court in düsseldorf upheld a motion by the insolvency administrator to disqualify this expert
     in a ruling issued on november 27, 2012. how the regional court will proceed in this matter is
     currently unknown. gea group aktiengesellschaft will continue to defend itself against all claims.

     general
     further legal proceedings or official investigations have been or may be instituted against gea group
     companies as a result of earlier business disposals and operating activities.

     adequate provisions have been recognized for all risks arising from both the legal disputes described
     above and other legal disputes being pursued by gea group in the course of its ordinary operating
     activities. however, the outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty.
     it is therefore possible that the conclusion of the proceedings may result in income or expenses if the
     amounts that have been set aside for them are higher or lower than required.

     performance risks
     the performance risks presented below can take a wide variety of forms. the elements of the gea risk
     management system are designed to help identify emerging risks before they materialize, so that
     appropriate measures can be implemented on a case-by-case basis to avoid negative effects on the
     group’s financial position and results of operations. as a rule, potential business performance risks are
     minimized by avoiding significant dependencies and ensuring a balanced mix of fixed and flexible
     capacities.

     gea group’s sales markets have a diverse product and customer structure. this diversification
     moderates the impact on total demand of fluctuations in demand in specific submarkets. however, the
     food industry is the main focus of the business. a significant decline in demand for food and beverages
     would have a material impact on gea’s financial position and results of operations. gea considers the
     probability of a global decline in demand to be low. this risk is rated as medium overall.




86                                         gea group annual report 2014

                    combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




a significant proportion of gea’s business consists of projects that depend on the financing available
to gea’s customers. a general decline in demand, shifts in currency parities, or a credit squeeze could
make it more difficult to implement such projects. for the same reason, existing orders could be
deferred or even canceled. if such risks were to occur on a global level, they would have a material
impact on gea’s financial position and results of operations. the probability of such risks occurring
globally is considered to be low. this risk is classified as medium overall due to gea’s diversified
positioning in particular.

although country-specific conflict situations that may result in risks to the group are monitored
continuously as part of the risk management process, the potential risks arising from such situations
are difficult to quantify. however, no material impact on the group’s results of operations is anticipated.
this risk is rated as medium overall.

on the sales side, future prices will depend to a considerable extent on general economic trends. any
fall in capacity utilization in the industry could also have a significant negative impact on price levels
and therefore on the financial position and results of operations of gea group. thanks to the group’s
regional and industrial diversification, the probability of such a risk is considered to be low. this issue
is rated as a medium risk overall.

gea group processes a number of materials, such as stainless steel, copper, and aluminum. purchase
prices for these metals may fluctuate significantly depending on market conditions. long-term supply
agreements are entered into with selected suppliers in order to lock in the procurement prices used as
the basis for costing orders. however, the potential risks arising from such situations are difficult to
quantify. with respect to procurement, current expectations are that prices for key materials will not
increase. this risk is rated as medium overall.

long-term engineering orders are a significant element of gea group’s business. some of these
contracts entail particular risks, as they involve assuming a significant portion of the risk associated with
the project’s completion. in addition, they may provide for warranty obligations that remain in force for
several years after the project’s acceptance. technical problems, quality problems at subcontractors, and
missed deadlines may lead to cost overruns. there is therefore an extensive risk management system in
place at group management and segment level to closely monitor order-related risks. this comes into
play before binding quotations are submitted. adequate provisions have been recognized for all
foreseeable risks in this area. this could give rise to both risks and opportunities in relation to the
financial position and results of operations. as a whole, this issue is rated as a medium risk.

gea’s business processes are highly dependent on information technology. the failure or malfunction of
critical systems could result in risks relating to confidentiality, availability, and integrity, and key business
processes could be compromised. gea protects its it systems against unauthorized access to the extent
that this is economically feasible. the relevant security systems are updated on an ongoing basis.




                                         gea group annual report 2014                                               87

                        combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




     furthermore, the company sees risks in connection with macroeconomic trends. if a downturn in the
     economy leads to a reduction in order intake to below the level of the previous fiscal year, this could
     have a negative impact on earnings due to capacity underutilization and capacity adjustment measures.
     thanks to the group’s regional and industry diversification, and the fact that it is structured for
     flexibility, the probability of this significant risk occurring is considered to be low. this issue is
     classified as a medium risk overall.

     as contractually agreed, defined risks relating to selected orders remained with the group following
     the sale of the former lurgi and lentjes divisions. the guarantee period for most of these lentjes
     orders has already expired. the other orders have provisionally been handed over to the customers
     and are therefore under warranty. under the final agreement entered into with the purchaser of lurgi,
     the risks arising from the selected lurgi orders have largely been eliminated for gea group. the
     remaining risks are rated as low overall.

     the sale of the gea heat exchangers segment resulted in risks in the form of financial obligations
     towards the purchaser. these relate to contractual warranties and indemnifications, as well as risk
     sharing for major projects. this issue is assessed as a medium risk overall, with a low probability of
     occurrence.

     dedicated and qualified employees are a critical success factor for gea group. the group has various
     staff policy measures in place to counter the risk that it will be unable to fill vacant positions adequately
     or that it will lose skilled employees. the measures aim to position gea as an attractive employer and
     foster employees’ long-term loyalty to the group (see page 52 f.). the probability of this significant risk
     occurring is considered to be low. this issue is rated as a medium risk overall.

     acquisition and integration risks
     acquisitions and internal company reorganizations entail risks resulting from the integration of
     employees, processes, technologies, and products. it is possible, therefore, that the aims of the measures
     in question will not be achieved at all or within the timeframe envisaged. moreover, such transactions
     may give rise to substantial administrative and other expenses. portfolio measures may also result in
     the need for additional finance and may impact negatively on financing requirements and the financing
     structure.

     these risks are countered by a structured integration concept and close supervision by internal experts,
     as well as specific training measures.


     environmental risk
     several properties in our portfolio entail risks relating to environmental contamination and mining
     damage, primarily as a result of earlier business activities. these risks are countered through
     appropriate measures and supervision by internal and external specialists. adequate provisions were
     recognized for the measures in 2014, as in past years. this could give rise to both risks and opportunities
     in relation to the financial position and results of operations. their probability is regarded as medium
     and their materiality as moderate.




88                                          gea group annual report 2014

                  combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




financial risks

principles of financial risk management
the executive board has put in place an effective set of guidelines to manage and hence largely limit
or hedge financial risks throughout the group. the objectives with regard to protecting assets,
eliminating gaps in security, and improving efficiency in identifying and analyzing risks are clearly
defined, as are the relevant organizational structures, powers, and responsibilities. the guidelines are
based on the principles of system security, the separation of functions, transparency, and immediate
documentation.

because it operates worldwide, gea group is exposed to currency, interest rate, commodity price,
credit, and liquidity risk in the course of its ordinary activities. financial risk management aims to
reduce this risk through the appropriate use of derivative and nonderivative hedging instruments. the
group’s financial risks are quantified in section 3 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements
(see pages 150 ff.).

based on a gross assessment, the financial risks described below are considered in principle to be both
considerable and probable for gea. these risks are therefore rated as high overall.

currency risk
because gea group operates internationally, its cash flows are denominated not only in euros, but also
in a number of other currencies, particularly u.s. dollars. hedging the resulting currency risk is a key
element of risk management.

the uniform group guidelines for central currency management used within gea group require all
group companies to hedge foreign currency items as they arise in order to fix prices on the basis of
hedging rates. currency risks are hedged for recognized hedged items, unrecognized firm commitments,
and highly probable forecast transactions. the hedging periods are determined by the maturity of the
hedged items and are usually up to 12 months, but in exceptional cases may exceed that period
significantly. nevertheless, changes in exchange rates may affect sales opportunities outside the eurozone.

affiliated group companies based in the eurozone are obliged to tender to gea group’s central finance
unit all outstanding exposures relating to transactions in goods and services in major transaction
currencies. most of these exposures are passed on directly to banks at matching maturities, depending
on the hedging objective of the derivatives and the related accounting treatment; they may also be
hedged as part of a portfolio. the hedging of financial transactions and transactions conducted by
subsidiaries outside the eurozone is also closely coordinated with the central finance unit.




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                           89

                        combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




     interest rate risk
     because gea group operates worldwide, liquidity is raised and invested in the international money
     and capital markets in different currencies (but mainly in euros) and at different maturities. the
     resulting financial liabilities and investments are exposed to interest rate risk, which must be assessed
     and managed by central interest rate management. derivative financial instruments may be used on a
     case-by-case basis to hedge interest rate risk and reduce the interest rate volatility and financing costs
     of the hedged items. only the central finance unit is permitted to enter into such interest rate hedges.

     credit risk
     financial instruments are exposed to credit risk in that the other party to the contract may fail to fulfill
     its obligations. the counterparty limit system used by gea group’s central finance unit aims to
     continuously assess and manage counterparty default risk. a maximum risk limit has been defined for
     each counterparty, which in most cases is derived from the ratings from recognized credit rating
     agencies and credit default swaps (cdss). appropriate action is taken if the individual limit is exceeded.

     the financial standing of potential customers is ascertained before orders are accepted using an
     internal risk board procedure. active receivables management, including nonrecourse factoring,
     nonrecourse financing, and credit insurance, is also performed. in the case of export transactions,
     confirmed and unconfirmed letters of credit are used alongside sureties, guarantees, and cover notes,
     including from export credit agencies such as euler hermes. in addition to local monitoring by the
     subsidiary in question, gea group oversees the main credit risks at group management level so that
     any accumulation of risk can be better managed.

     since trade receivables are usually due from a large number of customers in different sectors and
     regions, there is no concentration of risk. valuation allowances take account of specific credit risks.

     so as to reduce the credit risk involved, derivative financial instruments are only entered into with
     reputable financial institutions whose creditworthiness has been classified as reliable under the
     counterparty limit system described above; this is also continuously monitored.

     the maximum exposure for the financial assets is limited to their carrying amount.

     liquidity risk
     gea group is exposed to liquidity risk in that it may be unable to meet payment obligations because it
     has insufficient cash funds at its disposal. the central finance unit is responsible for managing this
     risk. cash funds are arranged and credit lines managed on the basis of a multi-year financial plan and
     a rolling month-by-month cash forecast. the funds are then made available to the companies by group
     management. cash pools have been established in a growing number of countries in order to optimize
     the use of cash funds and borrowing within gea group. to mitigate liquidity risk, gea group will
     continue to use various financing instruments in the future so as to diversify its sources of funding
     and stagger maturities.




90                                          gea group annual report 2014

                   combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




the impact of potential risk scenarios on changes in liquidity is simulated on a quarterly basis. all
internal risk management information and internal and external information on potential market and
other external risks is taken into account. on the basis of this, the executive board and supervisory
board have agreed strict rules regarding the level of cash and long-term credit lines to be held to cover
potential liquidity risk.

tax risks
the applicable national tax legislation may affect the use of loss carryforwards and thus the
recoverability of the deferred taxes recognized in the consolidated financial statements and current
taxation. furthermore, future changes to the ownership structure could significantly reduce or even
render impossible the use of german loss carryforwards (section 8c of the körperschaftsteuergesetz
(kstg – german corporate income tax act)). the ability to use u.s. loss carryforwards could also be
restricted in the case of certain changes to the ownership structure of gea group aktiengesellschaft
under irc section 382 (limitation on net operating loss carryforwards following an ownership change).

moreover, in germany and abroad, there is considerable uncertainty regarding future changes to, and
the application of, tax legislation as a result of tighter public sector finances, the resulting pressure for
reform, and tangibly greater scrutiny by the tax authorities.

the tax risks presented could have a material effect on gea’s financial position and results of
operations. the occurrence of material negative effects is considered to be relatively unlikely.




                                        gea group annual report 2014                                            91

                       combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




     opportunities

     overall assessment of opportunities and changes compared with the previous year
     gea group’s end markets offer a variety of opportunities for positive business performance over the
     long term. a key task of the opportunity and risk management system is to systematically evaluate
     internal and external information in order to identify opportunities at an early stage and appropriately
     assess the potential they offer (see page 83 f.). specific measures are then developed to enable us to
     convert opportunities into actual economic success.

     the identified opportunities from operating activities and the additional positive impact on earnings
     that could result have not changed significantly as against the previous year.

     planning of the group’s economic development is based on certain assumptions regarding the
     development of the performance parameters described below. if these parameters develop more
     positively than expected overall, this could have a corresponding effect on gea group’s financial position
     and results of operations.

     performance opportunities
     gea group is entering fiscal year 2015 with an unchanged high order backlog. further growth is
     expected in the rapidly expanding asian markets in the medium term. gea group will further expand
     its presence in these regions and thus participate in the growth of these markets.

     if the expected moderate growth in the global economy materializes, gea’s continued focus on the
     food end market will allow it benefit more than average, especially in growth markets.

     in the area of food process technology, gea’s growth will be driven not only by an increase in the
     standard of living and the trend toward high-quality foods, but also by the expected rise in production
     and quality standards as well as innovative process improvements and new product developments.

     gea’s in-depth understanding of our customers’ production processes is a cornerstone of its success.
     increasing scarcity of resources means that ever more efficient use needs to be made of raw materials
     and energy. in addition, end consumers’ rising demands require the implementation of higher quality
     standards in production processes. growing awareness of our environmental impact means we must
     meet more stringent standards on co2 emissions, for example. this creates additional opportunities
     for gea group, which can focus research and development activities on environmentally friendly
     technologies and production processes and thus offer specialist solutions.

     gea considers the probability of the performance opportunities exceeding the planning assumptions
     and therefore having a material positive impact on net assets, financial position, and results of
     operations to be medium overall.




92                                         gea group annual report 2014

                   combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




opportunities arising from legal disputes
with regard to the proceedings against u.s. company flex-n-gate corp., the court of arbitration in
fiscal year 2010 ordered flex-n-gate to compensate gea group aktiengesellschaft for losses incurred
as a result of the collapse of the sale of the dynamit nobel plastics business to flex-n-gate in the fall of
2004. the award was overturned by the higher regional court in frankfurt in 2011. in its decision
dated october 2, 2012, the german federal court of justice dismissed gea group aktiengesellschaft’s
appeal against the decision. the company then decided to continue the arbitration proceedings against
flex-n-gate and filed a corresponding application with the deutsche institution für schieds­
gerichtsbarkeit (dis – german institution of arbitration) on december 21, 2012.




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                            93

                       combined group management report / report on expected developments




     report on expected developments
     gea group’s report on expected developments takes into account relevant facts and events that were
     known at the date of preparation of these consolidated financial statements and that could influence
     the future development of its business.

     economic environment in 2015

     global economy
     as described in the section on the macroeconomic environment in the report on the economic position
     (see page 27 f.), gea, as a global engineering company, considers global growth in gross domestic
     product (gdp) and the corresponding imf forecasts to be key benchmarks for its own performance.

     in the january 2015 update to its world economic outlook, the imf reduced its forecast for global
     economic growth in 2015 against its october 2014 estimates. the key factors behind this adjusted
     outlook are the decreased growth rates in china, russia, the eurozone, and japan, as well as the fall in
     oil prices and the associated drop in activity among oil exporters. the imf’s economists now expect
     global growth of 3.5 percent in 2015. in the following year, they expect the global economy to pick up
     slightly, achieving growth of 3.7 percent. the forecast growth rates for 2015 and 2016 are both
     0.3 percentage points below the figures published last october.

     overall, the imf says that, while the global economy is benefitting from the low oil prices, especially in
     the major economies, these benefits are more than offset by negative factors such as the clear decline in
     investments. according to the imf, too many countries are still suffering the effects of the severe crisis,
     including high unemployment and debt. it believes that too little is being invested and consumed overall.

     growth in the industrialized nations
     the imf sees only a slight change in the overall outlook for the industrialized nations. in fact, the
     significantly increased growth forecast for the u.s.a. resulted in a slight improvement in the outlook
     for 2015, which rose by 0.1 percentage points to 2.4 percent. the growth forecast for 2016 remains
     unchanged and also amounts to 2.4 percent.

     more specifically, the imf has reduced its eurozone growth forecast by 0.2 points to 1.2 percent this
     year due to weaker investment prospects. growth in the coming year is also expected to be a mere
     1.4 percent. this is 0.3 percentage points lower than previous forecast. as is also the case in japan, the
     imf is worried about stagnation and low inflation in the eurozone. the imf expects the german
     economy to grow by just 1.3 percent this year, followed by 1.5 percent in 2016. this represents a drop of
     0.2 and 0.3 percentage points respectively compared with the last forecast.

     the growth forecast for the u.s.a. was revised upwards due to strong domestic demand, increasing
     markedly by 0.5 percentage points to 3.6 percent. this means that the world’s largest economy has
     recovered more quickly than was previously expected. the positive growth is set to continue in 2016,
     rising by 0.3 percentage points as against the previous forecast, to 3.3 percent.




94                                          gea group annual report 2014

                  combined group management report / report on expected developments




growth in the emerging markets
by contrast, growth forecasts for the emerging markets, including china and russia, were significantly
reduced. overall, the imf expects growth of just 4.3 percent in 2015 and 4.7 percent in 2016 – a reduction
in its outlook for these key regions of 0.6 and 0.5 percentage points respectively.

the imf again reduced its economic growth forecast for china, which to date has been one of the
world’s most important growth regions. the chinese economy is now expected to grow by just
6.8 percent this year, 0.3 percentage points lower than previously forecast. this would be its lowest
growth rate since 1990. demand in china is failing to meet expectations according to the fund. that
said, the imf expressly welcomed china’s decision to reduce the economy’s dependence on the real
estate sector and the shadow banking system, and to stimulate domestic demand. however, it said that
the slowdown in china is also having a knock-on effect on the forecasts for other asian regions.

the imf is particularly negative about russia’s growth prospects. the country has been hit hard by the
dramatic drop in global oil prices and the sharp depreciation of the ruble. added to this are negative
factors such as the international economic sanctions resulting from the conflict in ukraine. the imf
expects the russian economy to contract by 3.0 percent in 2015, down a substantial 3.5 percentage
points on its previous forecast. the predicted recession in russia will also have a negative impact on
growth in other eastern european countries.

economic risks
according to the imf, there are also serious economic risks in addition to the developments in the
individual regions of the world. these include the different monetary policy approaches being taken in
the major economies. the prospect of the first interest rate rise in the u.s.a. since 2006 could have an
adverse effect on the emerging markets and global financial stability. the strong u.s. dollar could also
negatively impact weaker economies.

food industry
the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd) and the un’s food and
agriculture organization (fao) anticipate in their “oecd-fao agricultural outlook 2014” that demand
for agricultural products will remain stable, although growth rates will be slower than in the past
decade. although cereals will remain the staple human food, the forecast states that growing incomes,
urbanization, and changes in eating habits will increasingly contribute to changes in many people’s
diets. foods that are higher in protein, fat, and sugar will assume greater significance.

according to the forecast, livestock and biofuel production are projected to grow at a faster rate than
crop production in the next decade. crop prices are expected to decline for the next one or two years,
before stabilizing at levels above those observed pre-2008, albeit significantly below recent peaks.
meat, dairy, and fish prices are expected to rise in the long term.




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                          95

                       combined group management report / report on expected developments




     economic environment for gea
     gea’s planning for the current 2015 fiscal year assumes that demand in its sales markets will be
     moderately higher than the high levels seen in 2014.

     the group’s enduring success is founded on a number of major global trends:

     1. the continuous growth in the global population,
     2. the growing middle class,
     3. the growing demand for high-quality foods and beverages,
     4. the increasing demand for production methods that are efficient and conserve valuable resources.

     the united nations assumes that the world’s population, which currently stands at approximately
     7.3 billion people, will rise over the coming years by around 80 million people per year (see world
     population prospects, 2012; world urbanization prospects, 2014). according to un estimates, the
     population should increase to nearly 8.2 billion in the period up to 2025. this means that, in future,
     significantly more food will have to be produced on more or less the same cultivation area. for this
     reason, the methods and production processes used must become much more efficient – which is why
     innovative process technology is needed.

     linked to this growth is an increasing degree of urbanization. the number of people living in towns
     and cities rose from 746 million in 1950 to 3.9 billion in 2014. this means that at 54 percent, more than
     half of the world’s population now lives in urban areas. this figure is set to expand by a further
     2.5 billion people by 2050, particularly in asia and africa. in addition, more and more foods must be
     preserved for longer and be easier to transport in order to secure the necessary supplies for metropolitan
     areas and to maintain world trade. here, as well, only state-of-the-art technologies can provide the
     capacity needed to cope with rising demand.

     another factor is that, as the middle class grows, so will the number of people who will be able to
     afford processed foods, beverages, and dairy products. this is equally true for pharmaceutical products,
     which must meet the needs of an increasingly health-conscious population.
     against the backdrop of the trends in the global economy and the food industry presented in this
     chapter, and the impact of the various megatrends on its direct sales markets, gea is expecting growing
     demand for high-quality foods and, linked to this, ongoing high levels of investment in the food
     industry. additionally, gea is anticipating sustained customer interest in process optimization for
     improving efficiency, productivity, energy usage, and plant availability, which its technologies are able
     to provide.

     the world bank expects that the across-the-board declines in industrial commodity prices (energy,
     metals and minerals, and agricultural raw materials) will continue in 2015 (see commodity markets
     outlook, january 2015). for example, metal prices are expected to drop by a further 5.3 percent on
     average, largely due to reduced demand in china, which previously accounted for almost half of global
     metal consumption.




96                                         gea group annual report 2014

                  combined group management report / report on expected developments




the company does not believe that customer project finance will be significantly affected by
uncertainty in the capital markets.

the proportion of gea’s revenue accounted for by the food industry in 2015 is expected to remain at
its current high level. from a regional perspective, too, gea is not anticipating any significant change
in the current breakdown of revenue in 2015 as against the past fiscal year.

business outlook
provided that there is no slowdown in global economic growth and that exchange rates remain the
same as in 2014, and excluding the effect of acquisitions and nonrecurring items, we are aiming for our
key performance indicators to develop as follows in the current fiscal year:

revenue
gea group is aiming to generate moderate organic revenue growth in 2015. the gea mechanical
equipment and gea process engineering segments are expected to record slight to moderate growth,
while the gea refrigeration technologies segment should see above-average growth. this forecast,
which is below the increase achieved in 2014, is largely due to the lower growth in capital goods that is
expected in light of lower growth rates in the emerging markets. although the significant fall in oil
prices will generate growth momentum – with the exception of the oil processing industry and in the
oil producing countries – the necessary structural reforms in some countries and the ongoing high
geopolitical risk are perceived as having a negative impact on global economic growth.

earnings
we expect operating ebitda to reach eur 580 million to eur 620 million during this period. no
major differences in earnings trends between the gea group segments are expected. the term
“operating” means that the earnings figures are adjusted for the effects of the remeasurement of new
assets resulting from acquisitions, as well as expenses that are nonrecurring in terms of their type or
amount.

cash flow driver margin
with respect to our cash flow drivers, i.e. the net amount of ebitda, the change in working capital, and
capital expenditure, we are aiming for a ratio to revenue of between 9.0 percent and 9.5 percent in 2015.




                                      gea group annual report 2014                                          97

                        combined group management report / report on expected developments




     further expectations

     acquisitions
     we are maintaining our strategy of acquiring companies that provide gea with an entry into new markets
     or that selectively expand our range of offerings in existing markets. this will enable us to provide our
     customers with a single-source solution for an ever-broader range of products and services. however,
     given the uncertainties on the global financial markets, we shall continue to focus closely on the financial
     feasibility of such projects with the aim of ensuring a stable credit rating for gea in the debt markets.

     dividend
     the executive board and supervisory board will propose a dividend of eur 0.70 per share for 2014 to
     the annual general meeting. this represents an increase in the total dividend of 16.7 percent to
     eur 134.7 million. this dividend payment would also be in line with our new objective of distributing
     between 40 and 50 percent of net income to our shareholders.

     summary
     provided that there is no slowdown in the global economy, we expect the group to achieve moderate
     organic growth. the further increase in profitability together with the ongoing focus on liquidity
     generation should help ensure we have the financial leeway to successfully implement our strategic
     growth targets. with regard to the distribution ratio, our long-term objective is to distribute between
     40 and 50 percent of net income to our shareholders.




     düsseldorf, february 26, 2015




     jürg oleas                 dr. helmut schmale              markus hüllmann               dr. stephan petri




98                                          gea group annual report 2014

                                     gea shares / investor relations




gea shares / investor relations
performance of gea group shares on the capital markets
developments on the international capital markets in 2014 were dominated by the continuing
expansionary monetary policy measures taken by the central banks, as well as by economic and in
particular geopolitical factors and associated volatility. although the global stock markets initially
continued their rally at the beginning of the year, they gave up their gains again at the end of the first
quarter due to increasing concerns about the crimea crisis and economic growth in china. driven by
more expansionary monetary policy measures by the ecb, the international stock markets continued
their positive performance in the second quarter, pushing the dax past the 10,000 point mark for the
first time in its history to 10,009 points on june 9. very weak economic data for the european economic
area and fear of an ebola pandemic led to a slump on the stock markets at the beginning of october,
pushing indices down to their annual lows. on october 15, the dax reached a low of 8,572 points and
the stoxx® europe tmi industrial engineering 307.75 points. the mdax reached its annual low of
14,733 points on october 16. additional expansionary monetary policy measures by the bank of japan
led to a strong recovery by the stock markets in the middle of october. the dax reached an all-time
high of 10,087 points on december 5. it closed on december 30 at 9,806 points, up 2.7 percent over the
course of the year. the mdax also reached its highest-ever level on december 5, at 17,184 points. it
closed on december 30 at 16,935 points, a 2.2 percent gain. the stoxx® europe tmi industrial
engineering index ended the year at 340.93 points, a decline of 1.4 percent over the course of the year.

gea’s share price performed encouragingly over the course of the fiscal year in a market environment
dominated by strong economic and political factors. gea’s shares also rose at first on the back of the
stock market rally at the start of the year, reaching eur 35.91 on january 22 – the highest price in the
last two decades. profit taking as a result of the weaker-than-expected outlook for full-year 2014 that
was announced on february 6 put gea’s shares under pressure, pushing them down to an annual low
of eur 30.42 on april 15 during the general market correction of cyclical stocks in particular. the
announcement of a new group structure plus associated savings targets and a higher dividend payment
policy then led to strong gains, allowing gea shares to clearly break through their resistance level of
eur 36 in the fourth quarter. on november 27, gea group aktiengesellschaft shares reached
eur 38.52, a new high for the last 20 years. as a result of profit taking at the end of the year, gea
shares achieved a closing price of eur 36.60 on december 30, an increase of 5.8 percent in 2014. this
meant that the shares significantly outperformed the dax, the mdax, and the even more important
stoxx® europe tmi industrial engineering benchmark index in the past fiscal year.




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                          99

                                                                          gea shares / investor relations




      120 %
                           gea group               stoxx® europe tmi industrial engineering                 mdax


      110 %



      100 %



        90 %



        80 %
                jan.            feb.           mar.             apr.            may             jun.         jul.           aug.         sep.           oct.    nov.    dec.




       gea group shares compared to stoxx ® europe tmi industrial engineering

       balance sheet date (12/31/2014)                                    share development                     market capitalization *
       last 3 months                                                            +5.6                                      +5.6                           percentage points
       last 6 months                                                            +8.5                                      +8.5                           percentage points
       last 9 months                                                          +14.5                                    +14.5                             percentage points
       last 12 months                                                           +7.2                                      +7.2                           percentage points
       last 24 months                                                         +39.3                                    +39.3                             percentage points
       last 36 months                                                         +32.6                                    +40.5                             percentage points
          > 10 percentage points        3 bis 10 percentage points       3 bis -3 percentage points    -3 bis -10 percentage points   > -10 percentage points

      *) based on shares issued by gea group aktiengesellschaft as of the particular reporting date




      shareholder structure
      as of december 31, 2014, gea group aktiengesellschaft did not hold any treasury shares, meaning that
      the number of outstanding shares was unchanged at the end of the year, at 192,495,476. this led to a
      market capitalization of eur 7.0 billion as of the end of 2014 compared with eur 6.7 billion in
      december 2013, a 5.8 percent increase. the monthly index ranking of all listed german companies in
      the dax, mdax, sdax, and tecdax published by deutsche börse on december 30 ranked gea group
      aktiengesellschaft 31st (previous year: 32nd) in terms of market capitalization and 43rd (previous
      year: 41st) in terms of trading volume. at 0.4 million shares, the average daily trading volume in official
      exchange trading in fiscal 2014 remained unchanged (prior year: 0.4 million shares).

      as in previous years, gea group aktiengesellschaft performed detailed analyses of its shareholder
      structure in 2014. the current analysis from the fourth quarter of 2014 identified 86 percent of the
      company’s shareholders. institutional investors held 79 percent of the shares and kuwait investment
      office accounted for an unchanged figure of around 7.9 percent. institutional investors headquartered
      in the uk remained the largest investor group, holding 24 percent of all shares (previous year:
      24 percent). american investors hold second place with around 13 percent of all gea shares (previous
      year: 11 percent), followed by french investors, who hold nearly 11 percent of the shares (previous year:
      11 percent). the share of institutional investors from germany remained unchanged at around
      8 percent. in an encouraging development, institutional investors with a long-term orientation
      expanded their share from 64 to 67 percent of all gea group aktiengesellschaft shares. this highlights




100                                                                         gea group annual report 2014

                                                                   gea shares / investor relations




the attractiveness of gea’s business model for long-term investors in particular. less than 1 percent of
shares were held by hedge funds. as a result, gea group aktiengesellschaft has a stable shareholder
structure, which has changed only slightly over time.


regional breakdown of identified institutional investors
(%)

                                                                                                                                           13.6
      continental europe excl. germany                                                                                                                     29.1
      uk and ireland                                                                                                               11.2
      germany
      north america
      rest of world                                                                                                                 7.9
      not identified

                                                                                                                                           14.1     24.2
based on 192,495,476 shares, which were issued by gea group aktiengesellschaft at the date of the survey in the fourth quarter of 2014




investment styles of identified institutional investors
(%)
                                                                                                                                             13.6

      growth
      garp*                                                                                                                                                 31.1
                                                                                                                                    11.9
      value
      index                                                                                                                         0.9
      hedge fund
                                                                                                                                     6.8
      others inclusive kuwait investment office
      not identified
                                                                                                                                           13.4     22.5
* growth at a reasonable price

based on 192,495,476 shares, which were issued by gea group aktiengesellschaft at the date of the survey in the fourth quarter of 2014




investor relations activities
gea group takes its task of maintaining close contact with capital market players – and hence close
relationships with its shareholders, potential investors, and analysts – extremely seriously. in 2014, for
example, gea group’s investor relations activities again facilitated an ongoing, effective dialog with
the capital markets. the company used these activities to inform its shareholders and investors about
developments within the group in a transparent manner above and beyond its quarterly, half-yearly,
and annual reports. it also kept in close contact with investors by taking part in international
conferences and roadshows, which were regularly attended by the ceo and the cfo. in 2014, it held a
total of 36 roadshows. gea representatives also took part in 27 conferences, as well as holding 504 one-
on-one meetings. in addition, analysts and investors had the opportunity to experience the company’s
capabilities for themselves at gea group aktiengesellschaft’s headquarters in düsseldorf.

in addition to the sale of the gea heat exchangers segment, investor relations activities in 2014
focused on the launch of the “gea 2020” strategy and the corresponding reorganization of the group
structure with the “fit for 2020” initiative (see page 28 ff.). to this end, gea held a capital markets day
in london in october 2014 to present analysts and investors with detailed information about gea’s
new strategic orientation on the food industry as its main customer industry, as well as the related
organizational changes and planned potential cost savings. this raised awareness of gea’s shares
among investors, some of whom also became new shareholders.




                                                                      gea group annual report 2014                                                                 101

                                                               gea shares / investor relations




      earnings per share
      earnings per share (eps) amounted to eur 1.66 in the past fiscal year. they are calculated by dividing
      consolidated profit for the period by the weighted average number of shares outstanding in the course of
      the fiscal year. an average of 192.5 million no-par value shares were outstanding in the reporting period.


      key performance indicators for gea group shares                                            2014       2013
      shares issued (december 31, million)                                                       192.5      192.5
      average shares outstanding (million)                                                       192.5      192.5
      share price (december 31, eur) 1                                                           36.60      34.60
      high (eur)                                                                                 38.52      34.89
      low (eur)                                                                                  30.42      24.66
      market capitalization (december 31, eur billion) 2                                          7.05       6.66
      average daily trading volume (million)                                                       0.4        0.4
      earnings per share pre purchase price allocation (eur)                                      1.76       1.86
      earnings per share (eur)                                                                    1.66       1.75
      earnings per share from continuing operations (eur)                                         1.49       1.47
      earnings per share from discontinuing operations (eur)                                      0.18       0.28
      dividend per share (eur) 3                                                                  0.70       0.60
      total dividend (eur million) 3                                                             134.8      115.5
      pay-out ratio 3                                                                             42.0       34.4

      1) or on the last trading day of reporting period
      2) based on shares issued
      3) based on dividend proposal
      prices: xetra closing prices




      dividend proposal
      the executive board and supervisory board of gea group aktiengesellschaft will propose to the
      annual general meeting on april 16, 2015, that an increased dividend of eur 0.70 per no-par value
      share be paid again for fiscal year 2014 (previous year: eur 0.60). as a result, the distribution ratio is
      within the new target range, which was raised from one-third of the group’s earnings to between
      40 and 50 percent. this represents a dividend yield of 1.9 percent on the share price of eur 36.60 on
      december 30, 2014.

      the dividend will be paid from the contribution account for tax purposes (section 27 of the
      körperschaftsteuergesetz (kstg – german corporate income tax act)), meaning that investment income
      tax and the solidarity surcharge will not be deducted. in the case of shareholders in germany, the dividend
      is not subject to current taxation in the year of payment. the opinion of the german tax authorities (see
      also the federal ministry of finance (bmf) circular dated december 22, 2009, paragraph 92) is that the
      payment of dividends from the contribution account for tax purposes constitutes a repayment of
      shareholder contributions, which results in a subsequent reduction of the costs of the shares. this may
      lead to taxation of higher capital gains when shares are subsequently sold.




102                                                            gea group annual report 2014

                                     gea shares / investor relations




credit ratings/debt market
two international agencies, moody’s and fitch, have rated gea group aktiengesellschaft’s ability to meet
its financial obligations. these ratings serve as evidence of the company’s creditworthiness to existing
and potential debt capital providers. both agencies raised their ratings of gea group aktiengesellschaft’s
creditworthiness in fiscal year 2014, resulting in the following ratings for the gea group:

                                                            2014                         2013
agency                                                   rating        outlook        rating        outlook
moody‘s                                                   baa2          stable         baa3          stable
fitch                                                      bbb          stable         bbb-          stable



these ratings ensure that gea group has unlimited access to the international financial markets.

the bond issued in 2011 offered investors a yield of 0.4 percent as of december 31, 2014 (bond price:
eur 104.95) following an issue yield of 4.33 percent.

to optimize its group financing structure, gea group aktiengesellschaft took various measures in
fiscal year 2014 which allowed it to reduce its financial liabilities ahead of schedule by more than
eur 400 million. in doing so, gea systematically implemented its previously announced financial
policy of using part of the proceeds of approximately eur 1 billion from the sale of the heat exchangers
segment to repay its financial liabilities. this highlights how important it is for gea to maintain its
investment grade rating, and also serves to improve its financial result. specifically, two loans totaling
around eur 72 million from kreditanstalt für wiederaufbau (kfw) were initially repaid. in addition,
gea repurchased bonds amounting to eur 125 million. the remaining bonds totaling approximately
eur 275 million are still due in april 2016. the company also repaid borrower’s note loans amounting
to eur 210 million in december 2014.

in total, gea has credit lines (including its bond issue and borrower’s note loans) in the amount of
eur 1,305 million, of which eur 529 million had been utilized as of the balance sheet date. further
information on the credit lines and their utilization can be found in note 3 to the consolidated financial
statements beginning on page 150ff.




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                           103

                                                        sustainability report




      sustainability report
      responsible corporate behavior is integral to the long-term success of a company. as an international
      technology group and one of the world’s largest suppliers of process technology for the food industry,
      gea is acutely aware of its economic, social and environmental responsibilities. as a consequence, one
      of gea’s principal corporate objectives is to offer solutions that ensure environmental protection while
      delivering substantial benefits to society and a high level of economic efficiency.

      to gea, sustainability means securing a viable future on the basis of a sound social and economic
      environment as well as unspoilt natural surroundings. sustainability management also serves the
      purpose of mitigating economic, social and reputational risks. megatrends such as continued
      population growth, rising urbanization as well as progressing climate change bring the world face to
      face with mounting challenges: in the future, people will continue to require an adequate supply of
      food, energy or pharmaceutical products – always on the premise that resources are being conserved.
      gea has a footprint in the world’s fast-growing regions with its own companies or production sites
      and directly supplies local markets. based on its product portfolio that embraces technical components,
      machinery and systems, the company is able to provide key solutions to this area. at the same time,
      the company regards its commitment to corporate social responsibility (csr) as an economic, social
      and environmental investment, and, thus, an investment in its own future commensurate with
      “engineering for a better world“.


      sustainability at gea
                                                                    - climate protection
                                                                       - resource-efficient products
                                                                          - environmentally friendly production

                                                        ecology


                           - code of conduct                                      - pension and healthcare production
                                - compliance                                        - diversity
                   - corporate governance         economy         society            - social commitment
                      - leadership principles                                        - company values
                        - safety management
                            - shareholder value                                     - responsible employer




      in the long run, gea aims to safeguard the interests of its shareholders, customers and employees while
      assuming its responsibility towards society by strengthening its international competitiveness and
      boosting its economic success. primarily, the group pursues this objective by being a reliable partner that
      offers appealing and sustainable products to its customers, by acting as an exemplary employer for more
      than 18,000 employees worldwide, by paying taxes and by promoting non-profit projects.

      even though energy consumption and emission levels during production are relatively low in the
      mechanical engineering sector, gea regularly checks all areas for potential improvements in efficiency.
      in this respect, the company’s own employees also make important contributions under the idea and
      improvement management system.

      apart from having aligned its value creation processes with ecological principles, the company also
      helps its customers protect the environment by providing efficient products and process solutions. as a
      rule, the technologies and processes they employ are highly energy-intensive, which is why energy




104                                                 gea group annual report 2014

                                          sustainability report




savings and reductions in emissions or waste become increasingly important in connection with the
capital investment decisions taken by these customers. for years, gea’s solutions have set standards
for a successful combination of economic and ecological factors (see page 117 ff.).

health, safety & environment policy
by issuing the following declaration in january 2014, the executive board of gea group aktiengesellschaft
committed itself to a clear corporate policy in terms safety, health & environment:

we will perform all our business activities in keeping with the values and ethical principles of
gea group as outlined in the global business conduct policy and the codes of conduct that govern
our basic principles of social responsibility.

to implement these business ethics in the areas of health, safety and environment (hse), we hereby
commit ourselves to:

- improving the general well-being of our employees;
- creating an accident- and incident-free working environment and preventing occupational disease;
- complying with all statutory requirements, applicable rules and regulations and national standards;
- identifying, analyzing and efficiently managing hse risks inherent in our business activities;
- preventing environmental pollution and reducing energy consumption, waste and emissions;
- defining measures designed to prevent incidents and adequately handle emergencies, problems and
  their aftermath;
- clearly allocating functions and responsibilities and providing training to ensure the required skills;
- continuously monitoring and improving our systems, services and performance by evaluating our
  objectives, and to implementing appropriate sustainable corrective and preventive action.

each of our segments, their business divisions and all units, including development, production,
distribution and service, are responsible for setting hse objectives and individual goals, as well as
developing and implementing sustainable programs that help achieve them.

this policy will be communicated to all individuals acting for or on behalf of gea, with everybody
being actively involved in the enforcement of this policy. the latter will be announced at all our sites
and is available to the general public at www.gea.com, while it may also be obtained from gea group
public relations upon request.

economically sustainable
the production of processed foods and beverages represents one of the world’s most stable growth
markets that is expected to enjoy continuous growth over the coming decades. as a technology leader,
gea group offers these markets machinery, components, systems and plants that guarantee safe
process control as well as highest efficiency and hygiene standards.

detailed information on gea’s guiding principles, segment structure and business orientation can be
found in the chapter entitled “organization and structure” (see page 15 ff.).




                                      gea group annual report 2014                                          105

                                                sustainability report




      corporate governance
      gea places a high priority on transparent and responsible corporate governance and management
      aimed at long-term value enhancement. its activities are based on recognized corporate governance
      principles and fully comply with the recommendations of the german corporate governance code. in
      addition, gea group has an extensive compliance organization.

      a detailed presentation of corporate governance matters can be found in the corporate governance
      report included in this annual report (see page 61 ff.).

      compliance
      compliance is gea’s top priority. this is why all gea managers and employees must comply with the
      law and the relevant guidelines. wrongful and even criminal actions as well as violations of internal
      corporate guidelines will not be tolerated. gea has drawn up detailed guidelines – in particular an
      anticorruption guideline – that come with binding guidelines for action. periodic training and
      monitoring help avoid or detect non-compliant conduct at an early stage. in this context, employees
      may be instrumental in drawing attention to potential compliance violations.

      against this backdrop, gea globally introduced the so-called integrity system back in december 2014.
      hereby employees – including external third parties, for instance business partners – are given the
      possibility of directly reporting severe compliance issues or violations of the codes of conduct via an
      internet-based system. in this respect, gea attaches importance to an open corporate culture.

      the integrity system offers an additional communication channel if the standard reporting lines fail
      to apply. for instance, this may be the case if immediate action is required in the event of gross
      misconduct. this system also allows anonymous reporting as far as this is permitted in the country in
      question. nonetheless, this system shall not constitute a general platform for complaints. therefore, it
      only comprises reporting categories that embrace a substantial risk to the company, its employees and
      all other stakeholders.

      further information on compliance matters can be found in the corporate governance report included
      in this annual report (see page 61 ff.).

      code of conduct
      together with its european works council, gea group aktiengesellschaft issued a global business
      conduct policy in march 2006, which formulates a binding set of values, principles and modes of
      behavior that govern corporate conduct at gea group level. with these ethical and legal standards,
      gea has made a clear commitment to free and fair global trade as a vital precondition for sustained
      global economic growth. wherever possible, the group supports measures designed to combat
      underdevelopment in third world countries and fully accepts its corporate social responsibility.
      likewise, gea welcomes the principles of the un global compact initiative and endorses all internal
      and external corporate social responsibility (csr) initiatives taking place within the framework of the
      progressing process of internationalization. the group has pledged to respect human rights and the
      core labor standards developed by the international labour organization (ilo). in addition, gea fully
      complies with the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises. in order to ensure the greatest
      possible transparency, gea group has also published its global business conduct policy on the
      company website (www.gea.com/en/investoren/corporate_governance.html).




106                                         gea group annual report 2014

                                             sustainability report




incorporation into the organizational structure
in addition to the compliance organization described in the separate corporate governance report,
the group management level includes areas that are dedicated to diversity, company values and crisis
management. moreover, a health, safety & environment (hse) organization was set up.

leadership principles
at gea, we are convinced that we can achieve a lot more by working with, rather than merely alongside
one another. in order to establish this kind of corporate culture, gea has defined clear principles that
must be observed by all managers; moreover, the company has identified the necessary core skills that
are to go with them.



                            what gea expects of its managers:
    1. the will to lead

    2. management capabilities

    3. personal integrity

    4. passion – not obsession

    5. creativity



the high level of commitment shown by all our managers in terms of sharing information and
cooperating with one other strengthens gea group as a whole. this, too, has been a key factor in
cementing gea’s position as one of the most successful mechanical engineering companies worldwide
– an achievement that will benefit all segments and every single employee.

leadership@gea
to ensure optimal human resources’ development, we have broken the five principal requirements for gea
managers down into 12 qualities that, ideally, they should already possess when joining the company. these
qualities also constitute the main pillars of our initial and further management training modules. specifically,
these qualities include a down-to-earth mentality/respect for others, integrity/authenticity, vitality, drive,
empathy, intuition, good communication skills, the ability to see the big picture, an appreciation of the efforts
of others, a commitment to sustainably developing our management culture, the ability to reason as well as
resilience. each of these qualities has been defined in a detailed and intuitive manner that precisely conveys
what the group expects with regard to each of them.




                                         gea group annual report 2014                                               107

                                                       sustainability report




      safety management
      unforeseeable incidents such as natural disasters or terrorist attacks can also have severe consequences
      for gea. such incidents may also endanger the safety, health, and even the lives of group employees.
      the topic of employee safety is presented in detail on page 110 f.

      in order to prepare as effectively as possible for such material corporate risks, gea has implemented a
      comprehensive safety management strategy at all levels of the company. the group’s major incident
      manual provides all employees with clearly defined criteria for ensuring the early detection, evaluation
      and reporting of critical incidents. this manual also contains measures and detailed contingency plans
      designed to allow a rapid and appropriate response in an emergency; moreover, it names qualified
      contact persons within gea.

      in 2014 gea also rolled out a new software designed to map the entire company in terms of various
      hse-relevant kpis, which has given rise to a completely new data pool. these data are constantly
      monitored, with causes of accidents being investigated, analyzed and communicated to the workforce
      to prevent new accidents, to name but one example. a newly created, dedicated section of our intranet
      site is used for this purpose. the system represents a combination of various solutions that were
      tailored to gea’s specific requirements. this allows for detailed possibilities of investigation and
      corrective actions bespoke to meet gea’s needs.

      furthermore, a “serious events reporting system“ was launched to report fatal or severe accidents,
      fires, explosions or environmental incidents to relevant employees as fast as possible. this allows gea
      to rapidly and effectively respond to such incidents and mitigate their impact.

      socially sustainable
      gea fully accepts its obligation to make a contribution towards the sustainable development of society,
      both within the company by acting as a responsible employer, and in the wider social context.

      a responsible employer
      with its large number of companies, some of them very small, gea has a special structure. in addition,
      many of our employees work on third-party construction sites or are deployed under service contracts
                                                        delivering services within the framework of our
                                                        customers’ production.

                                                                   detailed information on the topics of personnel
                                                                   marketing and human resources development at
                                                                   gea can be found in the “employees” chapter (see
                                                                   page 52 f.).
                                 fair company label:
                                 widely recognized seal of
                                 quality for gea




108                                              gea group annual report 2014

                                            sustainability report




diversity




gea operates in a challenging international market environment with a large number of players who
influence the company in many different ways – ranging from customers, competitors and employees
down to the government and society in general. companies can rise to the many challenges associated
with this extremely diverse cultural environment by being aware of diversity and by actively creating it
within their own ranks. diversity is defined as the composition of the workforce in terms of
internationality, gender, age and qualifications. gea recognizes that diversity is a strategic success factor,
as diversity implies strength.

the corporate diversity management function at group management level is responsible for firmly
embedding diversity in gea’s corporate culture in order to support the business of all segments. gea’s
diversity management is based on a diversity organization in all segments. an international team of
diversity managers, comprised of women and men from a whole range of different functions, is to
represent the spirit of diversity throughout the company.

in order to promote diversity on as many levels as possible and, for example, to create an attractive
working environment, gea also intends to increasingly introduce aspects of modern work flexibilization
schemes while increasing mobility within the company.

diversity criteria are included as a matter of course when recruiting and appointing staff. one of the
objectives is to recruit more women to gea and to involve a greater number of talented female employees
in internal employee development initiatives. furthermore, diversity management is one of the key ways
in which employee potential and talent can be reliably identified. in line with this, the entire pool of
future executives is to receive training in the above gea diversity criteria.

a catalog of gea diversity performance indicators is used to measure the success and progress made in
the field of diversity management. in this way, both the degrees of target achievement and the success of
diversity measures are established at group management, segment and company levels, each of them
being measured against the following three criteria: performance, potential and diversity.

the current proportion of women in the total workforce amounts to 18 percent. at management level,
they account for a total of 12 percent. at the more narrowly defined level of the top 400 executives,
however, the proportion of woman falls to around 6 percent. in terms of the international composition of
its workforce, gea employs over 90 different nationalities; 60 percent of the workforce either comes
from germany (34 percent) or the rest of western europe, while around 15 percent are from the asia/
pacific region. at the level of the top 400 executives, over 48 percent are from germany, while 7 percent
originate from the asia/pacific region.




                                        gea group annual report 2014                                             109

                                                sustainability report




      a further measure introduced to institutionalize diversity management within the company was an
      official diversity policy in tandem with a guideline for executives: this policy describes the overriding
      goals and the steady state of diversity management within gea. the guidelines provide managers with
      an instrument for implementing diversity management at all group levels.

      on account of its importance to corporate culture, the topic of diversity is closely entwined with gea’s
      corporate values. in this respect, diversity is an engine for change towards more diversity of thought and
      action.

      corporate values
      gea vision and gea values are the cornerstones of gea’s management philosophy. they are the
      crucial elements of a common gea identity. by establishing the corporate values of “excellence”,
                                                     “responsibility”, “integrity”, “passion” and “gea-
                                                     versity”, gea has created a reference and
                                                     orientation system that provides a common
                                                     understanding and guideline governing the
                                                     personal behavior of managers and employees:
                                                     we stand for excellence in everything we do; we
                                                     work with passion; we walk the talk; we feel
                                                     responsible for our actions; we cross borders.
                                                          thus, the set gea values promote both the
                                                          interaction with and between employees. at the
      end of the day, our gea values are to increase the level of efficiency and professionalism in all gea
      segments and gea companies, while supporting a constructive dialogue inside and outside the
      company.


      work and family life
      gea has implemented a host of measures to help employees reconcile the demands of work and family
      life, including competent contact persons for expectant mothers and fathers as well as a sponsorship
      program for mothers and fathers on parental leave, company-organized childcare, flexible working
      hours and opportunities to work while on the move.

      for instance, since march 2014, gea employees at the bochum site have also been offered the possibility
      of placing their children in daycare at the “awo-kita” nursery located nearby. there are places for
      children of all age groups, with gea covering all expenses incurred. places in full day care allow the
      children to play with kids of the same age and to enjoy a versatile leisure and development program.

      employee safety
      in order to work productively and fully harness their potential, employees need a pleasant and safe
      working environment. the requirement to offer all employees safe conditions in the workplace is
      enshrined in gea’s global business conduct policy, which obliges our managers to guarantee the best
      possible health and safety conditions in every gea group workplace worldwide. even in countries
      with less stringent safety requirements, locations are still subject to gea group’s higher standards.




110                                         gea group annual report 2014

                                          sustainability report




gea safety management also provides a comprehensive service for all employees traveling worldwide
on behalf of the group. this includes detailed travel and safety information for every region around
the globe. should one of our employees nonetheless get caught up in an emergency, he or she can
contact the 24-hour gea group security and support hotline. if necessary, this service can also
organize personal protection for any employee and at any location worldwide at short notice. the
medical support service hotline provides assistance with health-related issues and, in the event of
illness, ensures appropriate medical care or repatriation, if need be. using a security app and a mobile
device, gea employees can also obtain medical and safety information on a group location at any time
or directly contact the 24-hour hotline at the gea security center via an emergency button. this fills a
gap in the chain of communication while further enhancing the service provided to employees by the
gea security center.

gea also maintains a continuously updated database that embraces the locations of all employees on
business trips worldwide. in the event of a regional crisis, this so-called travel tracker enables it to
respond rapidly and provide employees with active assistance.

gea aid commission
employees, who suddenly get into difficulties, for instance after a severe accident or a sudden illness,
require rapid and unbureaucratic financial assistance. in a group-wide agreement with the works
council, gea has pledged to unbureaucratically provide financial assistance under such circumstances.
employees affected in this way, but also the families of employees who suddenly pass away, may turn
to the gea aid commission for help.

company pension scheme
gea wants all its employees to be able to enjoy their well-deserved retirement. this also includes the
financial security to enjoy an appropriate standard of living. in many countries, however, the impact of
demographic change, increased life expectancy and high unemployment rates places a growing
financial burden on state pension systems. private and, especially, company pension schemes play an
increasingly significant role in closing such a pensions gap. for this reason, the company provides an
efficient pension scheme for all its employees.

like the remuneration system, gea’s executive pension scheme is based on a combination of fixed
components and performance-related parameters.

gea group also offers an attractive performance-related pension scheme for employees below senior
management level. in germany, for instance, this is based on an employee-financed deferred
compensation plan. employees can elect to defer receiving a portion of their salary that is instead
contributed to the pension plan. if an employee chooses this option, gea group tops up the basic
employee contribution with an additional employer contribution; the latter is financed by the company
and performance-related.

comprehensive healthcare provision
a health-conscious workforce is important for the long-term, sustainable development of a company,
because healthy employees are more productive, more reliable and more motivated. gea therefore
supports its employees with a variety of active healthcare offerings.




                                      gea group annual report 2014                                         111

                                                sustainability report




      this program to promote employee health comprises a broad range of measures to prevent illness.
      inter alia, they include cancer screening, stop smoking seminars, workplace ergonomics training as
      well as the provision of gea care menus in employee restaurants. moreover, the company also
                                      addresses safety issues like safe winter driving or walking, information
                                      on the topic of noise, protection against cuts or on how to keep the
                                      workplace clean and tidy, to name but a few examples. apart from
                                      these campaigns, 2014 also saw some new topics like a men’s week,
                                      recommendations on meeting culture and a foot measurement
                                      campaign for all those wearing safety footwear.

                                      the “dortmunder personalmanagement prädikat”, a prize for excellence
                                      in the field of human resources awarded to the company for its gea
                                      care health care program in the fall of 2013, has not only shown that we
                                      are on the right track, but also elicited a response from other parties. in
                                      the meantime, various institutions and companies have requested
                                      information and advice on gea care, using the program as an example
                                      when implementing their own ideas.

      healthcare coaching
      in special development/assessment centers supported by external coaches, employees obtain
      comprehensive information on the health benefits of exercise, fitness and a proper diet. where
      possible, this theoretical information is supplemented by practical exercises. all preventive measures
      are based on the actual living and working environments of the employees concerned. in addition, the
      group offers individual coaching with fitness tests or health checks

      the geaktiv sport forum
      geaktiv is an online portal established by gea to help employees meet up for joint sporting activities.
      hosted by the gea intranet, it enables people to easily find training partners in their specific sporting
      activity or post their own events. geaktiv already covers more than 30 different sports disciplines and
      keeps growing.




112                                         gea group annual report 2014

                                          sustainability report




socially committed
as a global enterprise, gea is also involved in a host of projects outside its own companies, where
support is given directly to local people. in many different ways, gea and its employees contribute
their share to help others.

the fascinating world of engineering
gea focuses particularly on projects with children and adolescents to allow them to experience the
fascinating world of engineering as early as possible. for visitors of the “stöbertage” (exploration
                                                      days) at the gea mechanical equipment segment,
                                                      this experience already starts at pre-school level.
                                                      groups of kindergarten children are invited along
                                                      to learn about tools and machinery and discover
                                  gea’s “stöber-      the world of engineering. at the same time, gea
                                  tage” are a fun
                                  experience for kids also supports a variety of institutions such as
                                                      schools and kindergartens.

school-business cooperation network
cooperation between schools and industry that aims at easing school-to-work transition and/or
assisting students in choosing a specific career or university degree helps ensure that companies –
especially in technical fields – are able to recruit a sufficient supply of new labor. this is why gea is
involved in the school-business cooperation network that covers activities such as information events
at participating schools, job application training for students and projects jointly undertaken by
students and trainees. in addition, the cooperation network is involved in the opening of the “family
and friends” art exhibition in bochum and makes a contribution to the program by staging a special
exhibition of pieces of work made by students.

“technik ist zukunft”
in the future, gea group will continue to need creative young people with a passion for science and
engineering. in order to convince students of the variety and appeal of a career in engineering and to
convince them of the career opportunities gea can offer, gea has joined forces with other companies,
for instance within the framework of the “technik ist zukunft” (“technology is the future”) initiative.
in addition to the company’s financial support of the initiative, its employees also ensure a direct
contact to the potential skilled workers of tomorrow’s world: at the various “technik ist zukunft”
action days held at schools, they give students graphic accounts of their work, gea products and
services as well as career opportunities offered by the company. gea also regularly invites groups of
students to participate in tours of various individual gea sites, giving them a comprehensive insight
into production processes and the daily working routine at gea group.

girls‘ day
all gea group segments participate in the german girls’ day, an initiative designed to encourage girls
from the fifth grade onwards to think about their future career options. it provides them with an
opportunity to find out more about a wide variety of professions in science and engineering. this two-
in-one event has the characteristics of an open day and a detailed information event, as it offers
participants a hands-on experience of technology while encouraging students to take an interest in
engineering from an early age onwards.




                                      gea group annual report 2014                                          113

                                                sustainability report




      helping disadvantaged young people
      true to its principles of diversity management, gea also helps to improve the economic situation of
      disadvantaged members of society in south africa. as part of this initiative, the group has been
      involved in a program promoting young black africans with disabilities since 2009.

      within the framework of this program, participants receive training from specially qualified
      instructors while earning money in the process. the trainees, accompanied by a mentor, are employed
      for a one-year training period. regular monitoring ensures that the program’s quality standards are
      met. graduates receive the national certificate in business administration services and are regularly
      taken on by gea group.

      wallace & gromit and shaun in the city
      the wallace & gromit‘s children‘s charity is a british charity raising funds to improve the lives of sick
      children in hospitals and hospices. in great britain, gea has sponsored this organization for years,
      always attending its events. cash donations and gift campaigns initiated by the company give great
      pleasure to these kids. in 2015, the company will sponsor “shaun in the city“, another campaign
      launched by the wallace & gromit foundation.

      make-a-wish
      this foundation grants long-cherished wishes to children with life-threatening conditions, giving them
      hope, strength and joy. no matter whether they wish to meet a celebrity, be a princess for just one day or
      simply visit a museum: what really counts is the moment and the experience of the child, making each
      wish and its fulfillment the most beautiful thing in the world. thanks to the generosity of more than 150
      competitors – including employees, customers, salespeople and friends of gea – the company collected
      12,500 dollars for this organization during an annual golf tournament in north america in 2014.

      “kunst in der rotunde“
      gea group’s “kunst in der rotunde” (“art in the rotunda“) exhibition program has enlivened the
      world of art in the ruhr area since august 2000. the program derives its name from the glass rotunda
                                                  at gea’s administrative building in bochum. it offers an
                                                  ideal forum for paintings, graphic art, sculpture, objects,
                                                  photography and installations.

                                                   even now that group management has relocated to
                                                   düsseldorf, gea still organizes several exhibitions at the
                                                   gea center bochum every year. a major criterion for an
                                                   artist’s eligibility is whether he or she has a connection to
      the ruhr area. as a rule, each exhibition features two or three artists and kicks off with a vernissage
      and an introductory presentation of the works. an accompanying booklet is also published.

      works of art purchased from previous exhibitions now adorn the corridors, offices and conference
      rooms at a number of gea locations. gea also has a scheme enabling employees to rent out works
      from this collection and buy them at the end of the rental period.




114                                         gea group annual report 2014

                                           sustainability report




closely connected to “kunst in der rotunde” is a special exhibition by the name of “family and friends”
that is regularly held in the summer for a period of 8 weeks. this program is intended to offer all gea
employees with a creative bent, including their families and friends, a platform to present the fruits of
their artistic labors and exhibit their photographs, paintings and sculptures. these “family and
friends” exhibitions have also been held since the year 2000. over the years, they have become
increasingly popular among the global gea family and are now a firm fixture in the events calendar.
as a rule, the vernissage starting such an event is well-attended and also marks the beginning of an
annual fundraising campaign whose proceeds are donated to st. vinzenz e.v., an institution that
supports children, adolescents and families at various stages of their lives.

ecologically sustainable
sustainability in the ecological sense is based on the principle of protecting nature and conserving its
limited resources. gea’s innovative products make an important contribution to this cause, since in
the world of process technology and engineering, the days when ecology and the economy embraced
conflicting goals are long gone. our customers can help promote climate protection by using machinery,
components, systems and plants produced by gea, while environmental protection is also accorded its
rightful place within the company.

environmental protection within gea
gea’s key environmental objectives are saving energy, optimizing plant design and conserving resources.
its main environmental partners are identified at local level, with their significance and impact on
products and services being analyzed to derive improvements. monitored environmental parameters
include:

-   emissions
-   energy consumption
-   hazardous goods handling, including water-polluting agents such as acids and alkalis
-   waste
-   noise
-   waste water/water consumption

environmental protection measures taken at production level frequently exceed statutory requirements
– as confirmed by environmental certifications obtained in accordance with din en iso 14001.
in-process environmental protection, resource conservation as well as extensive health and safety
measures are standard practice throughout the entire group. production waste is sorted and, wherever
possible, recycled. any further environmental impact is largely avoided by the use of exhaust gas
filters and collecting vessels, and through the treatment and recycling of process liquids.

the company’s location in oelde was only recently awarded the tüv certificate in accordance with
din en iso 50001 for its exemplary energy management system, to name but one example. by
implementing such a system in line with the relevant german and european standards, gea
consistently pursues the objective of enhancing energy efficiency at its own locations.

the components of a systematic energy management system include the comprehensive analysis and
evaluation of in-house energy fluxes based on which adequate technical and strategic measures for improving
the energy balance of an entity are formulated. within the framework of integrated energy management, the
objective pursued by this particular location was to achieve a continuous efficiency enhancement of at least
1.5 percent per year as well as a minimum 1.5 percent reduction in co2 emissions relative to the production
volume. in this context, cost savings are not only expected to come from the lower level of energy




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                            115

                                                    sustainability report




                                                                consumption, but also from a potential exemption
                                                                from the renewable energy surcharge (eeg
                                                                surcharge).

                                                            the plant’s new and very own combined heat and
                                                            power unit in combination with an absorption
                                                            refrigerator is at the heart of this energy
                                                            management system. as opposed to conventional
                                                            power generation, the use of trigeneration (cchp)
                                                            can bring about considerable savings in primary
                                                            energy. however, energy savings cannot only be
                                                            accomplished by employing advanced and
                                                            innovative technology; each and every individual
      employee can make his or her contribution. this is why, in the future, the workforce will be made even
      more aware of the efficient use of energy, for instance by means of training courses.

      selected initiatives

      carbon disclosure project
      as in previous years, gea group took part in the 2013 survey conducted within the framework of the
      carbon disclosure project (cdp). cdp is an independent, not-for-profit organization currently
      representing more than 700 institutional investors. each year, it gathers information on the greenhouse
      gas emissions of major listed corporations and their strategies to combat climate change. the results
      are then made available to current and potential investors. in this survey, gea group also provided
      information on the opportunities and risks related to climate change, as well as action taken in the
      field of climate protection. from gea’s perspective, any potential risks arising from a shift in demand
      will at the very least be offset by equally large opportunities to supply customers with energy-efficient
      solutions for their production processes from our wide range of products.

      as yet, gea does not have a uniform group-wide system for measuring co2 emissions. however, co2
      emissions are measured in the segments on the basis of national and international standards such as
      iso 14001 or the co2 saver certificate.

      blue competence sustainability initiative
      gea group is an alliance member of blue competence, an initiative of the german engineering association
      (vdma). the members of the initiative have pledged to develop and promote sustainable engineering
      solutions in accordance with economic, ecological, and societal demands. in this way, they want to assume
                                                            responsibility for prosperity, education, safety and
                                                            nature. the industry associations, organizations and
                                                            companies involved in this initiative – including
                                                            gea – also include the consequences of urbanization
                                                            and globalization into their strategies.
                                      the vdma blue
                                      competence initiative




116                                           gea group annual report 2014

                                           sustainability report




cool-save energy conservation project
gea refrigeration technologies is a member of the cool-save energy conservation project that was
founded as part of the european-wide intelligent energy europe (iee) program. the latter aims to increase
                                                     the energy efficiency of refrigeration systems used
                                                     in the food industry. this is being done by collecting
                                                     data at the refrigeration plants of selected food
                                                     producers that will serve as a benchmark for
the iee’s cool-save energy conservation project      developing best-practice measures to improve the
                                                     efficiency of refrigeration systems. like the iee
program, the cool-save project is intended to boost the competitiveness of climate-friendly and
sustainable energy technology. a total of nine companies from six eu member states are partners in the
cool-save project.

enhanced fleet efficiency
a central fleet management software allows the centralized capture of key data such as mileage, fuel
consumption as well as the related co2 emissions for each vehicle. this system was first introduced in
germany, where the largest share of the vehicle fleet is in operation. this forms the basis for ecological
fleet management.

stainability – for climate and customers
energy consumption is an increasingly important factor in the total cost of ownership of a machine or
plant. gea believes that global climate change creates major potential for the use of its energy-efficient
products.

water is a key factor in the sustainability of gea’s products. a large part of consolidated revenue is
generated by products that are related in some way to the careful management of this scarce resource.
they range from resource-efficient filling technology that requires substantially less water for cleaning,
air-cooled condensers whose closed-circuit design prevents water loss, efficient generator coolers,
down to separators and decanters for drinking water production or sewage treatment plants.

the following examples show the savings potential for a variety of resources that is provided by
machinery, components, systems and plants from gea group.

resource-efficient cleaning of tanks and vessels
with its innovative cleaning technology, gea offers its customers optimal solutions for various tank and
vessel cleaning applications. besides achieving excellent cleaning results, gea focuses on conserving
valuable resources in the cleaning process when developing new components and solutions.

twister and tornado 4 extend the existing range of gea orbital cleaners. as with typhoon, tempest and
                                                    tornado, twister and tornado 4 are liquid-driven
                                                    and work at the recommended pressure range of
                                                    between 4 and 10 bar. due to its compact design the
                                                    twister can be fitted through insertion openings of
                                                    100mm diameter and larger, which makes it the
                                                    smallest cleaner of the orbital range. in contrast, the
                                                    tornado 4 is the largest and most powerful amongst
                                                    all orbital cleaners. both twister and tornado 4 are
                                                    suitable for mobile and stationary applications.




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                           117

                                                 sustainability report




      whether using orbital, rotating or static units – gea’s cleaning devices achieve the best cleaning
      results in vessels with diameters of up to 33 m. working pressure ranges between 0.5 and 90 bar with
      flow rates from 0.5 to 67 m³/h. the cleaning devices require a minimum amount of time and labor for
      purification purposes and stand out due to a renewed reduction in the consumption of energy, water
      and cleaning agents.

      excellent fuel at the push of a button
      in order to combat the problem of hazardous cat fines in fuel, gea group is now offering a new system
      solution, catfinemaster, that was presented for the first time at the smm 2014. cat fines can
      significantly damage the engine and may even result in the total failure of the main engine under
                                               extreme circumstances. thus, fuel processing on board of
                                               vessels is of utmost importance and a task the new
                                               catfinemaster performs in an extremely efficient and
                                               reliable way. the system consists of a separator as the core
                                               element and a feed pump that can be regulated in the
                                               process for ensuring an optimum adjustment of the flow of
                                               heavy oils to the respective process requirements. this
                                               ensures additional efficiency gains while conserving energy
                                               at the same time. our new generation of control systems
                                               that automatically controls the requested program at the
                                               press of a button, as well as optimum measurement and
                                               analysis equipment round off the system.

      the catfinemaster ensures an efficient reduction in cat fines, which implies a target concentration of
      less than 5 ppm and the separation of all particles larger than 3 µm. this makes the catfinemaster the
      very first system available in the market that ensures a maximum reduction in cat fines while
      guranteeing an optimum fuel composition.

      efficient gas purification at low cost
      a new process developed by gea efficiently removes dust and nitric
      oxides from exhaust fumes released during the chemical production of
      commodities like glass and cement by employing catalytically activated
      filter elements. compared to conventional filter systems, this process
      significantly reduces both the capital expenditure and the operating
      expenses incurred in connection with the respective cleaning systems.

      due to the fact that this process only embraces one process step, the
      entire heat of the exhaust fumes emitted is utilized for the purpose of
      catalytic cleaning. this is crucial to the high level of energy efficiency
      of the process.

      in most cases, today’s industrial production is based on processes
      during which contaminated exhaust fumes are released into the
      environment in the wake of thermal processes. all over the world,
      regulations governing exhaust fumes and, thus, environmental
      pollution become stricter. frequently, this forces the industrial sector




118                                          gea group annual report 2014

                                          sustainability report




to take many more additional gas purification measures. in the past, this was associated with huge
cleaning systems that purified exhaust fumes in various process steps by means of many different
components. gea’s innovative process considerably facilitates the decision to employ an efficient gas
purification plant due to the lower level of overall costs and the high level of efficiency. in this way,
gea makes a contribution towards a more environmentally friendly industrial production.

water-cooled chillers with outstanding part load efficiency and small footprint
energy efficiency has become an increasingly important sales argument. for this reason, gea offers its
customers chillers that allow them to substantially reduce their power consumption and, thus, their
operating costs. the new gea grasso blugenium shows the real savings potential of the refrigeration
process that may be unlocked.

with the gea grasso blugenium, gea has once again succeeded in developing a convincing and
energy-efficient solution. the new chiller – frequently called chilled water generator in air-conditioning
applications – features a number of special design characteristics that materially differ from the
previous models. in total, they result in lower operating costs (total cost of ownership) and a higher
level of economic efficiency.
the chillers of the new series are based on the proven piston compressors of the gea grasso v series
and characterized by a narrow width of only 1.2 m as well as a small footprint. they are suitable for
                                                     industrial applications, process cooling, building
                                                     climate control and many additional areas.
                                                     chillers are available in five model sizes, with
                                                     maximum cooling ranging from 280 kw for the
                                                     smallest up to 1210 kw for the largest unit. the
                                                     high level of efficiency of these models is
                                                     impressive, and they do not only excel at full load,
                                                     but also under part load conditions, which are
                                                     frequently required. this results in an unequalled
european seasonal energy efficiency ratio of 9.5. one of the features contributing to this performance
is the standard frequency inverter that enables speed control from 500 to 1500 rpm and, thus, infinitely
variable output matching over an extensive load range. an additional efficiency characteristic is the
so-called electronic condenser drain system. it monitors pressure conditions at the condenser and the
evaporator and assures optimal capacity utilization of the evaporator.

the modest power consumption of gea grasso blugenium chillers also results from special design
characteristics like the low pressure drop, as well as the effective temperature isolation between the
suction and discharge sides of the compressor, which is mainly responsible for limiting the final
temperature. the large suction chamber allows an unimpeded inflow of gas into the compression
chambers, which results in only minor pressure drops at the compressor and benefits efficiency.

gea grasso blugenium chillers are designed for long service lives and low life-cycle costs. this is
reflected in some of the design features such as the welded crankcase of the compressors and the fully
welded heat exchangers for the condensers and evaporators. in addition, good insulation of the ‘cold
part’ of the chillers minimizes corrosion risks.




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                          119

120   gea group annual report 2014

consolidated financial
statements


122		 consolidated balance sheet

124		 consolidated income statement

125		 consolidated statement of comprehensive income

126		 consolidated cash flow statement

127		 consolidated statement of changes in equity

128		 notes to the consolidated financial statements

128     1. reporting principles

135     2. accounting policies

150     3. financial risk management

157 4. assets held for sale, liabilities held for sale,
			 and discontinued operations

160     5. consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets

171     6. consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities

198     7. consolidated income statement disclosures

205 8. contingent liabilities, other financial obligations,
			 contingent assets, and litigation

208     9. segment reporting

215 10. other disclosures

217 11. events after balance sheet date

218 12. supplemental disclosures in accordance
			 with section 315a of the hgb




                       gea group annual report 2014                         121

                                           consolidated financial statements




      consolidated balance sheet
      as of december 31, 2014


      assets
      (eur thousand)                                                           section   12/31/2014   12/31/2013
      property, plant and equipment                                               5.1      498,758      490,420
      investment property                                                         5.2       12,483       13,448
      goodwill                                                                    5.3     1,329,972    1,312,554
      other intangible assets                                                     5.4      325,557      319,840
      equity-accounted investments                                                5.5       15,293       13,690
      other non-current financial assets                                          5.6       63,433       42,068
      deferred taxes                                                              7.7      469,301      385,822
      non-current assets                                                                 2,714,797    2,577,842
      inventories                                                                 5.7      561,875      551,055
      trade receivables                                                           5.8      945,755      929,156
      income tax receivables                                                      5.9       17,531        8,332
      other current financial assets                                              5.6      390,625      108,939
      cash and cash equivalents                                                  5.10     1,195,858     683,520
      assets held for sale                                                          4.       5,585     1,605,786
      current assets                                                                     3,117,229    3,886,788
      total assets                                                                       5,832,026    6,464,630




122                                          gea group annual report 2014

                                           consolidated financial statements




equity and liabilities
(eur thousand)                                                                 section   12/31/2014   12/31/2013
subscribed capital                                                                         520,376      520,376
capital reserve                                                                           1,217,861    1,218,073
retained earnings                                                                          737,094      627,612
accumulated other comprehensive income                                                      51,316      –53,026
non-controlling interests                                                                      560        2,667
equity                                                                            6.1    2,527,207    2,315,702
non-current provisions                                                            6.2      131,592      123,777
non-current employee benefit obligations                                          6.3      793,565      672,711
non-current financial liabilities                                                 6.4      456,072      957,785
other non-current liabilities                                                     6.7       58,566        2,834
deferred taxes                                                                    7.7      118,598       98,779
non-current liabilities                                                                  1,558,393    1,855,886
current provisions                                                                6.2      148,828      170,651
current employee benefit obligations                                              6.3      170,637      152,644
current financial liabilities                                                     6.4      133,474       67,868
trade payables                                                                    6.5      639,719      646,529
income tax liabilities                                                            6.6       35,649       32,038
other current liabilities                                                         6.7      618,119      603,446
liabilities held for sale                                                           4.           –      619,866
current liabilities                                                                      1,746,426    2,293,042
totaly equity and liabilities                                                            5,832,026    6,464,630




                                             gea group annual report 2014                                          123

                                                            consolidated financial statements




      consolidated income statement
      for the period january 1 - december 31, 2014


                                                                                                          01/01/2014 -   01/01/2013 -
      (eur thousand)                                                                            section    12/31/2014     12/31/2013
      revenue                                                                                      7.1      4,515,689      4,319,994
      cost of sales                                                                                         3,066,491      2,957,551
      gross profit                                                                                          1,449,198      1,362,443
      selling expenses                                                                                        469,800        456,565
      research and development expenses                                                                        68,149         62,498
      general and administrative expenses                                                                     506,059        455,721
      other income                                                                                 7.2        229,193        194,915
      other expenses                                                                               7.3        202,331        169,169
      share of profit or loss of equity-accounted investments                                                   2,387          1,942
      other financial income                                                                       7.5          5,700          5,202
      other financial expenses                                                                     7.6            279            958
      earnings before interest and tax (ebit)                                                                 439,860        419,591
      interest income                                                                              7.5          7,057          8,935
      interest expense                                                                             7.6         73,087         76,390
      profit before tax from continuing operations                                                            373,830        352,136
      income taxes                                                                                 7.7         87,816         70,097
       thereof current taxes                                                                                   80,751         70,364
       thereof deferred taxes                                                                                   7,065           –267
      profit after tax from continuing operations                                                             286,014        282,039
      profit or loss after tax from discontinued operations                                          4         34,612         54,354
      profit for the period                                                                                   320,626        336,393
       thereof attributable to shareholders of gea group ag                                                   320,483        336,042
       thereof attributable to non-controlling interests                                                          143            351




      (eur)
      basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations                                            1.49           1.47
      basic and diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations                                          0.18           0.28
      basic and diluted earnings per share                                                         7.8           1.66           1.75
      weighted average number of ordinary shares used to calculate basic and diluted
      earnings per share (million)                                                                              192.5          192.5




124                                                             gea group annual report 2014

                                                     consolidated financial statements




consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the period january 1 - december 31, 2014


                                                                                                   01/01/2014 -   01/01/2013 -
(eur thousand)                                                                           section    12/31/2014     12/31/2013
profit for the period                                                                                  320,626        336,393


items, that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in the future:
actuarial gains/losses on pension and other post-employment benefit obligations           6.3.1        –95,504           –716
 thereof changes in actuarial gains and losses                                                        –135,048           –875
 thereof tax effect                                                                                     39,544            159


items, that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when
specific conditions are met:
exchange differences on translating foreign operations                                                 111,056        –83,503
 thereof changes in unrealized gains and losses                                                        117,840        –83,503
 thereof realized gains and losses                                                                      –6,784              –
result of available-for-sale financial assets                                               6.8         –1,259           -225
 thereof changes in unrealized gains and losses                                                         –1,797           -325
 thereof tax effect                                                                                        538            100
result of cash flow hedges                                                                              –5,391          2,909
 thereof changes in unrealized gains and losses                                                        –11,774          7,436
 thereof realized gains and losses                                                                       3,628         –3,465
 thereof tax effect                                                                                      2,755         –1,062
other comprehensive income                                                                               8,902        –81,535
total comprehensive income                                                                             329,528        254,858
 thereof attributable to gea group ag shareholders                                                     329,321        254,340
 thereof attributable to non-controlling interests                                                         207            518




                                                         gea group annual report 2014                                            125

                                                              consolidated financial statements




      consolidated cash flow statement
      for the period january 1 - december 31, 2014


                                                                                                                  01/01/2014 -   01/01/2013 -
      (eur thousand)                                                                                    section    12/31/2014     12/31/2013
      profit for the period                                                                                           320,626        336,393
       plus income taxes                                                                                               87,816         70,097
       minus profit or loss after tax from discontinued operations                                                    –34,612        –54,354
      profit before tax from continuing operations                                                                    373,830        352,136
      net interest income                                                                               7.5/7.6        66,030         67,455
      earnings before interest and tax (ebit)                                                                         439,860        419,591
      depreciation, amortization, impairment losses, and reversal of impairment losses on non-current
      assets                                                                                                          100,073         95,518
      other non-cash income and expenses                                                                                5,530          7,643
      employee benefit obligations                                                                                    –40,462        –38,759
      change in provisions                                                                                             33,001         26,553
      losses and disposal of non-current assets                                                                          –637           –882
      change in inventories including unbilled construction contracts *                                               –21,764         –2,600
      change in trade receivables                                                                                       8,184        –91,631
      change in trade payables                                                                                        –45,329         72,074
      change in other operating assets and liabilities                                                                 13,425          8,486
      tax payments                                                                                                    –90,265        –71,343
      cash flow from operating activities of continued operations                                                     401,616        424,650
      cash flow from operating activities of discontinued operations                                                   37,112        101,167
      cash flow from operating activities                                                                             438,728        525,817
      proceeds from disposal of non-current assets                                                                      5,354          4,464
      payments to acquire property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets                                        –93,781       –120,508
      payments to acquire non-current financial assets                                                     5.6       –237,919         –5,006
      interest income                                                                                                   4,946          5,176
      dividend income                                                                                                   5,701          4,420
      payments to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses                                                            –8,677         –5,465
      advanced payments to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses                                                  –25,000              –
      cash flow from investing activities of continued operations                                                    –349,376       –116,919
      cash flow from investing activities of discontinued operations                                                  923,811        –75,672
      cash flow from investing activities                                                                             574,435       –192,591
      dividend payments                                                                                              –115,497       –105,873
      payments from finance leases                                                                                     –4,943         –4,408
      proceeds from finance loans                                                                                       7,161         20,378
      proceeds from bond issue                                                                             6.4       –125,261              –
      repayments of borrower‘s note loans                                                                  6.4       –210,000        –55,000
      repayments of finance loans                                                                                    –121,265        –56,882
      interest payments                                                                                               –49,122        –44,495
      cash flow from financing activities of continued operations                                                    –618,927       –246,280
      cash flow from financing activities of discontinued operations                                                   –4,865         –5,072
      cash flow from financing activities                                                                            –623,792       –251,352
      effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents                                                     10,753        –23,542
      change in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents                                                                400,124         58,332
      unrestricted cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period                                                   794,313        735,981
      unrestricted cash and cash equivalents at end of period                                             5.10      1,194,437        794,313
       restricted cash and cash equivalents                                                               5.10          1,421          1,464
      cash and cash equivalents total                                                                               1,195,858        795,777
       less cash and cash equivalents classified as held for sale                                                           –       –112,257
      cash and cash equivalents reported in the balance sheet                                             5.10      1,195,858        683,520

      *) including advanced payments received




126                                                                 gea group annual report 2014

                                               consolidated financial statements




consolidated statement of changes in equity
as of december 31, 2014


                                                                     accumulated other comprehensive income
                                                                                          result of                        equity
                                                                        translation   available-for-    result of attributable to      non-
                               subscribed       capital   retained       of foreign   sale financial   cash flow shareholders of controlling
(eur thousand)                     capital     reserves   earnings      operations            assets     hedges gea group ag       interests         total
balance at jan. 1, 2013
(183,807,845 shares)             520,376     1,217,864    398,159          29,993              487       –2,520        2,164,359      2,552    2,166,911
 income                                 –            –     336,042               –                –           –          336,042        351     336,393
 other comprehensive income             –            –       –716         –83,670             –225        2,909          –81,702        167     –81,535
total comprehensive income              –            –     335,326        –83,670             –225        2,909          254,340        518     254,858
dividend payment by
gea group aktiengesellschaft            –            –    –105,873               –                –           –         –105,873          –    –105,873
change in
non-controlling interests               –         230            –               –                –           –              230       –403          –173
share-based payments                    –          –21           –               –                –           –              –21          –           –21
balance at dec. 31, 2013
(192,495,476 shares)             520,376     1,218,073    627,612         –53,677              262         389         2,313,035      2,667    2,315,702
 income                                 –            –    320,483                –                –           –          320,483        143     320,626
 other comprehensive income             –            –     –95,504        110,992           –1,259       –5,391            8,838         64       8,902
total comprehensive income              –            –    224,979         110,992           –1,259       –5,391          329,321        207     329,528
dividend payment by
gea group aktiengesellschaft            –            –    –115,497               –                –           –        –115,497           –    –115,497
change in
non-controlling interests               –            –           –               –                –           –                –        –67           –67
share-based payments                    –           21          –                –                –           –               21          –            21
other changes                           –        –233           –                –                –           –             –233     –2,247      –2,480
balance at dec. 31, 2014
(192,495,476 shares)             520,376     1,217,861    737,094          57,315             –997      –5,002         2,526,647        560    2,527,207




                                                   gea group annual report 2014                                                                127

                          notes to the consolidated financial statements / reporting principles




      notes to the consolidated financial statements
      1.       reporting principles
      1.1      basis of presentation
      the accompanying consolidated financial statements include gea group aktiengesellschaft, düsseldorf/
      germany, and its subsidiaries, which together make up the gea group. gea group aktiengesellschaft is
      a listed corporation. the consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with the
      international financial reporting standards (ifrss) and related interpretations issued by the
      international accounting standards board (iasb), as adopted by the eu in compliance with regulation
      (ec) no. 1606/2002 of the european parliament and the council on the application of international
      accounting standards. the additional provisions of section 315a of the hgb were also complied with.

      the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in euros (eur). all amounts,
      including the prior-year figures, are presented in thousands of euros (eur thousand,) except for the
      segment information. all amounts have been rounded using standard rounding rules. adding together
      individual amounts may therefore result in differences in the order of eur 1 thousand in certain cases.

      to improve the clarity of presentation, various items in the consolidated balance sheet and income
      statement have been aggregated and are explained accordingly in the notes. assets and liabilities are
      classified into current and non-current items. the income statement is prepared using the cost of sales
      method.

      the cash flow statement is prepared using the indirect method for cash flow from operating activities
      and the direct method for cash flow from investing and financing activities.

      the executive board of gea group aktiengesellschaft prepared these consolidated financial statements
      on february 26, 2015.

      1.2      accounting pronouncements applied for the first time
      the accounting standards presented below were applied by gea group for the first time in the year
      under review:

      ifrs 10 “consolidated financial statements,” ifrs 11 “joint arrangements,” ifrs 12 “disclosure
      of interests in other entities,” consequential amendments to ias 27 “separate financial
      statements” and ias 28 “investments in associates and joint ventures”– issued by the iasb
      in may 2011
      in fiscal year 2014, gea group retrospectively applied ifrs 10 “consolidated financial statements,”
      ifrs 11 “joint arrangements,” ifrs 12 “disclosure of interests in other entities,” and the consequential
      amendments to ias 27 “separate financial statements” and ias 28 “investments in associates and
      joint ventures.”

      ifrs 10 replaces the consolidation requirements of ias 27 “consolidated and separate financial
      statements” and sic-12 “consolidation – special purpose entities.” the new ifrs 10 affects the
      definition of the basis of consolidation. as was previously required by ias 27, consolidated financial
      statements must include those entities that are controlled by the parent. the definition of control in
      ifrs 10 differs from that used in ias 27. under ifrs 10, control exists when an investing entity is




128                                          gea group annual report 2014

                    notes to the consolidated financial statements / reporting principles




exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from involvement with the investee on the one hand, and
has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee on the other. the new concept
of control applies to all entities, including special purpose entities.

ifrs 11 “joint arrangements” supersedes ias 31 “interests in joint ventures” and sic-13 “jointly
controlled entities–nonmonetary contributions by venturers.” in contrast to ias 31, accounting for
joint arrangements under ifrs 11 depends not on the legal form of the arrangement but on the nature
of the rights and duties arising under the arrangement. ifrs 11 makes a distinction between joint
operations and joint ventures. joint operations are joint arrangements in which the parties with joint
control have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to that arrangement. in line
with this, these parties account for their shares of the respective assets, liabilities, income, and
expenditure as they did previously. under ifrs 11, joint ventures now have to be accounted for using
the equity method. the previous option to account for joint ventures using proportionate consolidation
has been removed.

ifrs 12 “disclosure of interests in other entities” revises the disclosure requirements for all types of
interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, structured entities, and off-balance
sheet vehicles.
the initial application of the new requirements had no material effect on the consolidated financial
statements.

amendments to ias 39 “financial instruments: recognition and measurement”– issued by
the iasb in june 2013
in fiscal year 2014, gea group applied the amended ias 39 “financial instruments: recognition and
measurement.” pursuant to the transition requirements, initial application was retrospective. as a
result of the amendments to ias 39, derivatives continue to be designated as hedging instruments in a
hedging relationship when the hedging instrument is novated to a central counterparty. for this to
apply, the central counterparty must become involved as a result of legal or regulatory requirements.

the initial application of the amendments to ias 39 had no material effect on the consolidated
financial statements.

ifric 21 “levies” – issued by the iasb in may 2013
this new interpretation provides more specific guidance on the general accounting principles for
liabilities to pay levies set out in ias 37. ifric 21 defines a levy as an outflow of resources embodying
economic benefits that is imposed by governments. payment of the levy is due to the unilateral obligation
resulting from the sovereign rights of the government. payments attributable to contractual arrangements
between a government and an entity, fines and penalties, as well as payment obligations that are governed
by other standards such as ias 12 “income taxes” do not fall within the scope of ifric 21.

ifric 21 is required to be applied retrospectively for fiscal years beginning on or after june 17, 2014.
initial application of the standard did not affect the consolidated financial statements.




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                           129

                          notes to the consolidated financial statements / reporting principles




      1.3      accounting pronouncements not yet applied
      the accounting standards and interpretations, as well as amendments to existing standards and
      interpretations presented below, were issued but not yet required to be applied to the preparation of
      the ifrs consolidated financial statements as of december 31, 2014.

      unless otherwise stated, the new standards and interpretations have been endorsed by the eu.

      gea group is currently examining the effects of the revised accounting standards on the consolidated
      financial statements and will determine the date of initial application.

      ifrs 9 “financial instruments”– issued by the iasb in july 2014
      the iasb issued ifrs 9 “financial instruments” in november 2009, completing the three-phase project
      to replace ias 39 “financial instruments: recognition and measurement.” the new standard initially
      introduced uniform requirements on the measurement and classification of financial instruments.
      ifrs 9 was reissued in october 2010 to incorporate new requirements on accounting for financial
      liabilities. the requirements on accounting for financial liabilities and the derecognition of financial
      assets and liabilities were largely carried over unchanged from ias 39. the amendments to ifrs 9 and
      ifrs 7 published in december 2011 changed the mandatory effective date of ifrs 9 and modified the
      relief from restating comparative periods and the associated disclosures in ifrs 7. the version of
      ifrs 9 issued in november 2013 amended the standard to include a new general hedge accounting
      model. in july 2014, the iasb issued the fourth and final version of ifrs 9, which now also includes
      the new requirements on the recognition of impairment losses and limited changes to the classification
      and measurement of financial assets. the final version superseded all previous versions of ifrs 9.

      the main new requirements of ifrs 9 on the recognition and measurement of financial instruments
      are described below:

      classification and measurement of financial assets
      in the future, there will only be two classification and measurement categories for financial assets: at
      amortized cost or at fair value. financial assets at amortized cost comprise those financial assets that
      give rise solely to payments of principal and interest at specified dates and are also held within a
      business model for managing financial assets whose objective is to hold those financial assets and
      collect the associated contractual cash flows. all other financial assets are classified as at fair value.
      under certain circumstances, a fair value option is available for financial assets falling under the first
      category on initial recognition, as at present.

      depending on the business model in which they are held, changes in financial assets belonging to the
      fair value category must be recognized in profit or loss, or in other comprehensive income. there is an
      optional right to measure certain equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive
      income; in this case, dividend income from these assets is recognized in profit or loss.




130                                          gea group annual report 2014

                    notes to the consolidated financial statements / reporting principles




accounting for financial liabilities
with regard to accounting for financial liabilities, the most important change relates to the presentation
of changes in value of financial liabilities measured at fair value. in future, the amount of the change
relating to changes in own credit risk must be recognized in other comprehensive income, while the
remaining amount of the change in fair value is recognized in profit or loss.

hedge accounting
the introduction of the new general hedge accounting model is intended to align hedge accounting
more closely with the risk management system. the new model opens up further options to apply
hedge accounting: in particular, groups of hedged items that meet the qualifying criteria individually,
as well as net positions and nil net positions, may now be designated in a hedging relationship.
generally, every financial instrument carried at fair value is suitable to be a hedged item.

new requirements are being introduced in relation to the effectiveness of hedging relationships;
stipulation of the ranges for the measurement of effectiveness is being dispensed with, so that a
retrospective effectiveness test no longer has to be performed. the prospective effectiveness test as
well as recognition of any ineffectiveness continue to be required.
a hedging relationship may only be terminated when the defined conditions for this are met; this
means that it is mandatory to continue hedging relationships if risk management objectives remain
unchanged.
enhanced disclosures are required in relation to the risk management strategy, the effects of risk
management on future cash flows, as well as the effects of hedge accounting on the financial statements.

provided the conditions and qualitative characteristics continue to be met, hedging relationships do
not have to be terminated as a result of the transition from ias 39 to ifrs 9. the existing requirements
under ias 39 may also, as an option, continue to be applied under ifrs 9.

new impairment model
under the new model for determining impairment losses, not only incurred losses but also expected
credit losses are recognized. expected credit losses are required to be recognized either in the amount
of the “12-month expected credit losses” – the present value of the expected credit losses resulting from
the default events possible in the 12 months following the reporting date – or in the amount of the
lifetime expected credit losses. the recognition of lifetime expected credit losses is required if the
credit risk of the financial instruments concerned has increased significantly since initial recognition.

transition requirements
subject to endorsement by the eu, ifrs 9 must be applied for fiscal years beginning on or after
january 1, 2018; earlier application is permitted.




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                          131

                           notes to the consolidated financial statements / reporting principles




      ifrs 9 no longer requires restatement of prior-period figures upon initial application of ifrs 9. when
      an entity chooses to apply this exemption, additional disclosures are required under ifrs 7 to allow
      for assessment of the effects of the first-time application of ifrs 9.

      gea group is currently assessing what impact the application of ifrs 9 will have on the group’s net
      assets, financial position, and results of operations.

      ifrs 14 “regulatory deferral accounts” – issued by the iasb in january 2014
      there is currently no standard in ifrss that addresses the accounting for rate-regulated activities. if
      rate regulation leads to a situation where expenditure in the current fiscal year has an effect on the
      rates an entity may charge in future fiscal years, this may result in economic benefits or disadvantages
      for the entity. in some countries, national gaap permits or requires that such economic benefits are
      capitalized or deferred.

      the new standard aims to improve the comparability between financial statements of entities that
      engage in rate-regulated activities. ifrs 14 permits a first-time adopter of ifrss to continue to present
      rate-regulated activities in accordance with its previous gaap accounting policies applied on transition
      to ifrss. however, effects from the capitalization or deferral of economic advantages must then be
      reported separately. as the iasb is currently carrying out a project on accounting for rate-regulated
      activities, ifrs 14 represents an interim solution. subject to endorsement by the eu, ifrs 14 must be
      applied by first-time adopters of ifrss from january 1, 2016; earlier application is permitted. the new
      requirements are not expected to affect the consolidated financial statements, since application of
      ifrs 14 is mandatory only for first-time adopters of ifrss.

      ifrs 15 “revenue from contracts with customers” – issued by the iasb in may 2014
      the new standard pools the existing revenue recognition requirements and establishes a single
      revenue recognition model. ifrs 15 applies to the recognition of contracts with customers for the
      provision of services and the sale of goods and thus also covers the recognition of construction
      contracts, which were previously governed by ias 11.

      the new integrated revenue recognition model provides a five-step framework for determining the
      amount of revenue and the timing of revenue recognition:

      1. identification of the contract with the customer
      2. identification of separate performance obligations
      3. determination of the total transaction price
      4. allocation of the transaction price to the separate performance obligations
      5. recognition of revenue when a performance obligation is satisfied

      a performance obligation is deemed to be satisfied when control over the goods sold or services
      provided is transferred to the customer. the accounting treatment differs depending on whether
      control passes at a point in time or over time. if control is transferred to the customer over time,
      revenue is recognized based on the stage of completion, provided this can be reasonably measured.

      gea group is currently assessing the impact of the new requirements. at present, gea group does not
      believe that the new requirements will have a significant impact on the group’s net assets, financial position,
      and results of operations. however, the timing of revenue recognition may change for certain orders.

      in addition, ifrs 15 introduces extensive disclosures on revenue recognition.




132                                           gea group annual report 2014

                     notes to the consolidated financial statements / reporting principles




subject to endorsement by the eu, ifrs 15 must be applied for fiscal years beginning on or after
january 1, 2017. earlier application of the requirements is permitted. initial application is retrospective,
with certain practical expedients permitted under ifrs 15.

amendments to ifrs 10 and ias 28 – sale or contribution of assets between an investor
and its associate or joint venture – issued by the iasb in september 2014
the amendments address a known inconsistency between the requirements of ifrs 10 and those of
ias 28 (2011) in cases where assets are sold to or contributed by an associate or a joint venture. in the
future, the gain or loss resulting from such a transaction will only be recognized in full if the asset sold
or contributed is a business within the meaning of ifrs 3, regardless of whether the transaction is
structured as a share deal or an asset deal. however, if the assets do not constitute a business, any gain
or loss is recognized only in proportion to the investor’s interest in the associate or joint venture.

gea group does not expect the implementation of the amendments to ifrs 10 and ias 28 to materially
affect its financial reporting.

subject to their endorsement by the eu, which is still outstanding, the amendments must be applied
for fiscal years beginning on or after january 1, 2016. earlier adoption is permitted once they have been
endorsed by the eu.

ias 1 “presentation of financial statements” – disclosure initiative – issued by the iasb in
december 2014
the amendments are attributable to an iasb initiative to improve the presentation and disclosure
requirements in existing standards. they clarify that disclosures are generally only required if their
content is not immaterial. in addition, they clarify how shares in the other comprehensive income of
equity-accounted companies should be presented in the statement of comprehensive income. the
amendments also extend the requirements on the aggregation and disaggregation of line items in the
balance sheet and statement of comprehensive income. lastly, they ease the rigid requirements
regarding the structure of the notes, so that these can now be structured in a way that takes better
account of their relevance for the individual company.

gea group does not expect the implementation of the amendments to ias 1 to materially affect its
financial reporting.

subject to their endorsement by the eu, which is still outstanding, the amendments will be required to
be applied for the first time in fiscal years beginning on or after january 1, 2016; earlier application is
permitted.




                                        gea group annual report 2014                                           133

                          notes to the consolidated financial statements / reporting principles




      amendments to ias 19 “employee benefits” – “defined benefit plans: employee
      contributions” – issued by the iasb in november 2013
      the amendments concern requirements relating to contributions from employees or third parties that
      are linked to service and clarify the corresponding requirements for attributing such contributions to
      periods of service. in addition, the accounting for contributions that are independent of the number of
      years of service has been simplified.

      gea group does not expect the implementation of the amendments to ias 19 to materially affect its
      financial reporting.

      the amendments will be required to be applied retrospectively for the first time in fiscal years
      beginning on or after february 1, 2015; earlier application is permitted.

      improvements to ifrss 2012 and improvements to ifrss 2013 – amendments under the
      iasb’s annual improvement project – issued by the iasb in december 2013
      the collections of improvements arise from the iasb’s annual improvements process to make minor
      amendments to standards and interpretations (annual improvements cycle). they comprise minor
      amendments to a total of seven (improvements to ifrss 2012) and four (improvements to ifrss 2013)
      standards.

      the amendments are not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.

      the improvements to ifrss 2012 are required to be applied for fiscal years beginning on or after
      february 1, 2015, whereby initial application will be mainly prospective; earlier application is
      permitted.

      the improvements to ifrss 2013 are required to be applied for fiscal years beginning on or after
      january 1, 2015; earlier application is permitted.

      improvements to ifrss 2012–2014 cycle – amendments under the iasb’s annual
      improvements project – issued by the iasb in september 2014
      the improvements result from the iasb’s annual improvements process, which is designed to make
      minor amendments to standards and interpretations (annual improvements cycle.) they comprise
      minor amendments to a total of four standards.

      gea group does not expect the implementation of the amendments to materially affect its financial
      reporting.

      subject to endorsement by the eu, which is still outstanding, the requirements must be applied for
      fiscal years beginning on or after january 1, 2016.




134                                          gea group annual report 2014

                           notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




2.            accounting policies
2.1           description of accounting policies

basis of consolidation
gea group’s consolidated financial statements include all significant companies that gea group
directly or indirectly holds the majority of voting rights or otherwise directly or indirectly controls by
holding, for example based on contractual arrangements. control exists when gea group is exposed,
or has rights, to variable returns from involvement with the investee on the one hand, and has the
ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee on the other. subsidiaries are
consolidated from the date on which the group obtains control over them. they are deconsolidated
from the date on which control is lost.

acquired subsidiaries are accounted for using the purchase method. the consideration paid is
measured on the basis of the fair value of the assets received, the liabilities assumed to the seller, and
the equity instruments issued at the transaction date. the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities
and contingent liabilities assumed in the business combination are recognized at their fair value at the
transaction date, irrespective of any noncontrolling interests. any contingent consideration agreed is
recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. subsequent changes in fair value are recognized in
profit or loss.

the excess of cost over the share of the fair value of the subsidiary’s net assets acquired is recognized
as goodwill. if, after a further examination, cost is lower than the share of the fair value of the
subsidiary’s acquired net assets measured at fair value, the difference is recognized as a gain in profit
or loss.

intragroup receivables, liabilities, income, and expenses are eliminated, as are cash flows and profits
and losses from intragroup transactions.

if consolidated subsidiaries have a different reporting date to the parent, they are included on the basis
of interim financial statements as of december 31, 2014.

the consolidated group changed as follows in fiscal year 2014:


number of companies                                                                               2014   2013
consolidated group as of january 1                                                                287    293
 german companies (including gea group ag)                                                         49     49
 foreign companies                                                                                238    244
initial consolidation                                                                               3      8
merger                                                                                              -5    -12
liquidation                                                                                         -3     -1
sale                                                                                               -65     -1
deconsolidation                                                                                     -1     0
consolidated group as of december 31                                                              216    287
 german companies (including gea group ag)                                                         35     49
 foreign companies                                                                                181    238




                                              gea group annual report 2014                                      135

                           notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




      a total of 51 subsidiaries (previous year: 70) were not consolidated since their effect on the group’s net
      assets, financial position, and results of operations is not material even when viewed in the aggregate.
      their consolidated revenue amounts to 0.2 percent (previous year: 0.2 percent) of the group’s aggregate
      consolidated revenue, while their earnings account for 1.1 percent (previous year: 1.6 percent) of
      recognized earnings before tax of the complete group, and their equity accounts for 1.0 percent
      (previous year: 1.4 percent) of consolidated equity. the subsidiaries are measured at cost and recognized
      as non-current other financial assets, as their fair value cannot be determined with sufficient certainty.

      a complete list of all subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures can be found in section 12.4.

      changes in ownership interest
      changes in gea group’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are
      equity transactions. the carrying amounts of controlling and noncontrolling interests must be adjusted
      in such way that they reflect the changes in ownership interests in the subsidiaries. any difference
      between the amount by which the noncontrolling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the
      consideration paid or received must be recognized directly in equity, and attributed to the owners of
      gea group.

      investments in associates and joint ventures
      entities over which a group company can exercise significant influence, i.e. it can participate in the
      investee’s financial and operating policy decisions, are accounted for as associates. this generally relates
      to companies in which gea group directly or indirectly holds 20 to 50 percent of the voting rights.

      joint ventures are joint arrangements whereby the parties involved have joint control over the
      arrangement and rights to its net assets. joint control exists when decisions about the relevant activities
      of the joint arrangement require the unanimous consent of gea group and the other parties that
      collectively control the arrangement.

      associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method at the group’s share of
      adjusted equity. they are initially recognized at cost. any goodwill arising on acquisition is included in
      the carrying amount of the investment.

      the group’s share of the profit or loss of equity-accounted investments is recognized and presented
      separately in the income statement. the group’s share of income and expenses recognized outside
      profit or loss is reported directly in other comprehensive income. if the group’s share of an associate’s
      or joint venture’s loss exceeds the carrying amount of the net investment in the associate or joint
      venture, no further losses are recognized.

      where necessary, the accounting policies of associates and joint ventures are adjusted to comply with
      uniform group accounting principles.
      as of the reporting date, two investments in associates (previous year: two) and six investments in
      joint ventures (previous year: 13) were accounted for using the equity method.

      joint operations
      joint operations are joint arrangements whereby the parties involved have joint control over the
      arrangement and rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.




136                                           gea group annual report 2014

                    notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




joint control exists when decisions about the relevant activities of the joint arrangement require the
unanimous consent of gea group and the other parties that collectively control the arrangement.

the assets, liabilities, income, and expenses of joint operations are accounted for in proportion to gea
group’s interest in them in accordance with the relevant ifrss.

currency translation
the group companies prepare their annual financial statements on the basis of their respective
functional currencies.

foreign currency transactions entered into by companies included in the consolidated financial
statements are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate prevailing at the transaction
date. monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the applicable exchange rate at each reporting
date. the exchange rate gains and losses resulting from these items are generally reported in the
income statement under other income or expenses.

all financial statements of companies whose functional currencies differ from the reporting currency
are translated into the reporting currency used in gea group’s consolidated financial statements. the
assets and liabilities of the companies included in the consolidated financial statements are translated
at the middle rates prevailing at the reporting date. the income statements of these companies are
translated at the average rates for the period under review. if these average rates are not a reasonable
approximation of the actual transaction rates, the income statements are translated at the relevant
transaction rates. any translation differences are reported in equity under other comprehensive
income and adjusted.

goodwill from the acquisition of foreign subsidiaries is translated at the closing rate as an asset
attributable to these companies.

property, plant and equipment
items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated at cost less cumulative depreciation and
impairment losses, plus reversals of impairment losses.

expenses for major regular maintenance are amortized over the remaining useful life of the asset
concerned or over the period to the next maintenance date.

the carrying amount of items of property, plant, and equipment is reviewed if it is likely to have been
impaired by events or changes in circumstances. an impairment test is performed by comparing the
asset’s carrying amount with its recoverable amount. the recoverable amount is defined as the higher
of internal value in use and fair value less costs to sell (net realizable value). fair value is primarily
determined on the basis of the current local market price for used machinery or commercial real estate.
if the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recognized. to assess
impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which separate cash flows can be identified. if
the reason for the impairment subsequently ceases to apply, the impairment loss is reversed up to a
maximum of historical cost, net of accumulated depreciation.




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                          137

                           notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




      leases
      leases are agreements that grant the right to use an asset for a defined period in return for a payment.
      leases are accounted for as finance leases if substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to using
      the leased asset, and therefore beneficial ownership, are attributable to the lessee. as a result, the
      gea group companies that, as lessees, bear substantially all the risks and rewards associated with the
      leased asset, recognize the asset at the lower of fair value or the present value of minimum lease
      payments, and depreciate the asset in subsequent periods over the shorter of the lease term or the
      asset’s estimated useful life. a corresponding liability is recognized, which is amortized in the
      following periods using the effective interest method. payments to the lessor are divided into an
      interest and a principal repayment element, with the interest element being recognized in profit or
      loss over the lease term as a continuous interest payment on the residual lease liability. all other leases
      under which gea group is a lessee are treated as operating leases. in these cases, the lease payments
      are recognized as an expense using the straight-line method.

      lease transactions under which gea group companies are the lessor and substantially all the risks and
      rewards associated with the leased asset are transferred to the lessee are accounted for as sales and
      financing business. a receivable is reported in the amount of the net investment under the lease. the
      interest income subsequently generated is recognized in profit or loss. all other lease transactions
      under which the group is the lessor are treated as operating leases. in this case, the asset leased for use
      remains on the balance sheet and is depreciated. the lease payments are recognized as income using
      the straight-line method over the term of the lease.

      various companies included in the consolidated financial statements have sold and leased back items
      of property, plant and equipment in the past. depending on the allocation of risk, these sale and
      leaseback transactions resulted in a finance lease or an operating lease. in the case of operating leases,
      the entire gain was recognized immediately if the asset was sold at fair value. if the asset was sold
      above its fair value, the difference between the selling price and fair value was deferred and recognized
      over the lease term.

      investment property
      property that is held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation is reported as investment property. in
      the case of property that is held partly to earn rentals and partly to produce or supply goods or services
      or for administrative purposes, the entire property is classified as investment property if the own use
      proportion is insignificant. this is assumed to be the case if the proportion is below 10 percent.

      cost is depreciated using the straight-line method over a period of between 10 and 50 years. the same
      measurement method is applied as for property, plant, and equipment.




138                                           gea group annual report 2014

                     notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




goodwill
goodwill arising from business combinations is recognized as an intangible asset.

goodwill is tested for impairment at segment level at least once a year at the end of the fiscal year and
if there are any indications of impairment. the recoverable amount of a segment is compared with the
carrying amount including goodwill. the recoverable amount corresponds to the higher of internal
value in use and fair value less costs to sell. fair value less costs to sell is the measure for the impairment
of business units classified as “held for sale.” if the carrying amount of the segment’s assets exceeds the
recoverable amount, an impairment loss in the amount of the difference is recognized in profit or loss.

an impairment loss initially reduces the carrying amount of goodwill. any amount exceeding goodwill
is allocated proportionately to the carrying amounts of non-current nonfinancial assets.

the value in use of the business units classified as continuing operations is calculated annually at the
end of the fiscal year using the discounted cash flow method. it is only necessary to estimate a selling
price for the business units classified as continuing operations if the value in use is less than the
carrying amount.

other intangible assets
other intangible assets include both internally generated and purchased assets. internally generated
intangible assets comprise capitalized development costs. in addition to contract-based rights,
purchased intangible assets mainly contain technologies, brand names, and customer relationships.
technologies, brand names, and customer relationships are usually acquired in connection with
takeovers. internally generated and purchased intangible assets are recognized at cost.

if the useful life of an intangible asset can be determined, the asset is amortized on a straight-line basis
over its useful life. intangible assets whose useful life cannot be determined are recognized at cost.

the carrying amount of an intangible asset is reviewed if it is likely to have been impaired by events
or changes in circumstances. intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment
at least once a year. this requires the recoverable amount of the assets to be determined. the
recoverable amount corresponds to the higher of internal value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
if the carrying amount is higher than the recoverable amount, the asset is written down to the
recoverable amount. previously recognized impairment losses are reversed if the reasons for the
impairment no longer apply. impairment losses are reversed up to a maximum of the amortized
historical cost.

indefinite-lived intangible assets are also examined each year to determine whether the classification
of the asset as indefinite-lived can be retained. any change to a finite useful life is applied prospectively.

other financial assets
other financial assets include investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries and other equity investments,
other securities, financial receivables (except trade receivables), and derivative financial instruments.




                                        gea group annual report 2014                                              139

                           notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




      shares in unconsolidated subsidiaries and other equity investments are allocated to the “available-for-
      sale financial assets” measurement category. they are measured at cost because the shares in these
      corporations are not traded in an active market and their fair value cannot be reliably measured. this
      is due to the significant margin of fluctuation for fair value measurement; the probabilities of the
      various estimates cannot be reliably determined within the margin of fluctuation. a reliable fair value
      can only be determined during sale negotiations. the group does not intend to sell these financial
      assets.

      securitized debt instruments that are intended to be held to maturity are allocated to the “held-to-
      maturity investments” measurement category and measured accordingly at amortized cost using the
      effective interest method. all other securities are measured at fair value and any fluctuations in value
      are recognized directly in other comprehensive income.

      financial receivables are allocated to the “loans and receivables” measurement category and measured
      at amortized cost using the effective interest method.

      derivative financial instruments are used exclusively for hedging purposes, in particular to hedge
      currency risk and to mitigate the risk of interest rate fluctuations resulting from financing transactions.
      they are always carried at fair value. if derivative financial instruments are not included in a
      documented hedging relationship, they are allocated to the “financial assets at fair value through profit
      or loss” measurement category, and their fair value changes are recognized in the income statement. if
      the derivative financial instruments included in a recognized hedging relationship are used to hedge
      future cash flows, the fair value fluctuations are recognized in other comprehensive income.

      embedded financial derivatives are separated from their host contracts if certain qualifying criteria
      relating to their recognition and measurement are met.

      financial assets are recognized as soon as gea group has received a cash payment or it has the right to
      receive cash flows. in the case of regular way purchases of nonderivative financial assets, the settlement
      date, i.e. the delivery date of the financial assets, is decisive. assets are derecognized as soon as the
      right to receive cash payments or other financial assets expires as a result of payment, waiver, statutory
      limitation, offsetting, or any other factor, or the right is transferred to another person, with the risks
      passing in full to the purchaser. in the case of regular way sales of nonderivative financial assets, the
      settlement date is taken to be the date of derecognition, in line with the principle used for recognition.

      items are originally recognized at fair value or, in the case of financial assets not measured at fair
      value, including directly attributable transaction costs.

      financial assets or groups of financial assets are tested for indications of impairment at each reporting
      date. impairment losses are recognized in the income statement. financial assets are impaired if,
      following one or more events that occurred after initial recognition of the asset, there is objective
      evidence that the expected future cash flows have declined. objective evidence of impairment may be,




140                                           gea group annual report 2014

                     notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




for example, significant financial difficulties of the debtor or payment default. in the case of financial
assets measured at amortized cost (e.g., unquoted equity instruments), the impairment loss corresponds
to the difference between the carrying amount of the financial instrument and the present value of the
future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.

if the reasons for impairment no longer apply, impairment losses on financial assets – with the
exception of equity instruments – are reversed to income up to the amount of the amortized cost that
would have applied if no impairment loss had been charged.

recognized hedging relationships (hedge accounting)
at the time they are entered into, derivative financial instruments that are included in a recognized
hedging relationship are designated either as a hedge against changes in the fair value of assets,
liabilities, or firm commitments (fair value hedge) or as a hedge of future cash flows in connection
with assets and liabilities (cash flow hedge).

in the case of an effective hedge of the risk of a change in fair value, the change in the fair value of both
the derivative and the hedged item is recognized in the income statement. changes in fair value offset
each other in a perfect hedge.

if derivatives are used to hedge future cash flows, the effective portion of the change in the derivative’s
fair value is recognized in other comprehensive income. the ineffective portion of the change in fair
value is reported as a gain or loss. the item recognized in other comprehensive income arising from
the effective portion of the change in fair value is recognized in the income statement as soon as the
hedged item is settled. if settlement of the hedged item leads to the recognition of a nonfinancial asset,
the changes in value previously recognized in other comprehensive income are offset against the cost
of the nonfinancial asset. if, contrary to previous assumptions, the hedged transaction is not executed,
the changes in value previously recognized in equity are reversed directly to profit or loss.

the group predominantly uses cash flow hedges to hedge foreign currency and interest rate risk.
gea group also enters into hedging transactions in accordance with its risk management principles
that offer economic hedges of existing risks, but do not meet the strict hedge accounting requirements
of ias 39. currency forwards that are used to hedge currency risk arising from monetary assets and
liabilities are not aggregated into a recognized hedging relationship. effects arising from the translation
of balance sheet items that are recognized in the income statement are largely offset by changes in the
fair values of currency forwards that are also recognized in the income statement.

gea group does not currently apply hedge accounting for fair value hedges.

deferred taxes
deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for all temporary differences between the carrying
amounts in the respective national tax accounts and those in the ifrs financial statements that are
included in the consolidated financial statements. deferred tax assets are also recognized for tax loss




                                        gea group annual report 2014                                            141

                           notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




      carryforwards. deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences and tax loss
      carryforwards are recognized only to the extent that there is likely to be sufficient taxable income
      available in future.

      deferred tax liabilities are not recognized on taxable temporary differences arising from investments
      in subsidiaries, associates, or joint ventures as long as the reversal of temporary differences is unlikely
      in the foreseeable future.

      inventories
      inventories are recognized at the lower of cost and net realizable value. acquisition cost is calculated
      at average cost or using the first-in, first-out (fifo) method. production cost includes direct costs plus
      materials and production overheads, depreciation, and production-related administrative costs. net
      realizable value is calculated as the estimated sale proceeds less costs incurred until completion, and
      selling expenses. previously recognized impairment losses must be reversed if the reasons for the
      impairment no longer apply. impairment losses are reversed up to a maximum of the amortized
      historical cost.

      trade receivables
      trade receivables include no interest component and are recognized in the balance sheet at their
      principal amount less appropriate allowances for bad debts.

      trade receivables that are sold to financial services companies under factoring agreements are
      derecognized once substantially all the risks and rewards have been transferred to the financial
      services company.

      construction contracts
      receivables and revenues from construction contracts are recognized using the percentage of
      completion (poc) method.

      the percentage of completion is determined using the cost-to-cost method, which is derived from the
      ratio of contract costs incurred to the total estimated contract costs. contracts are measured at
      production cost plus a profit in proportion to the stage of completion. losses on construction contracts
      are immediately recognized in full in the fiscal year in which they are identified, regardless of the stage
      of completion. if the contract costs incurred and the gains or losses recognized exceed the progress
      billings, the excess amount is capitalized and reported under “trade receivables.” if the progress
      payments received exceed the capitalized costs and recognized gains or losses at the reporting date,
      they are reported as a liability under “other liabilities.” advance payments on construction contracts
      are reported separately as a liability.

      if the contract margin cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognized only in the amount of the
      contract costs incurred (zero-profit method). a profit is only recognized once the contract margin can
      be estimated reliably.

      payments for differences in the overall contract, claims, and premiums are included in the contract
      revenue insofar as these will probably result in revenue that is capable of being estimated reliably.




142                                           gea group annual report 2014

                     notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




cash and cash equivalents
cash and cash equivalents comprise cash, demand deposits, and financial assets that can be converted
into cash at any time and that are subject to only slight fluctuations in value. they are recognized at
fair value.

assets held for sale, liabilities held for sale, and discontinued operations
non-current assets or groups of assets classified as “held for sale” within the meaning of ifrs 5 are
recognized at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. classification as “held for
sale” is made when the carrying amount of a non-current asset or disposal group will be recovered
principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use, and the criteria defined in
ifrs 5 have been met overall. the corresponding assets as well as the liabilities of a disposal group are
reported separately in the balance sheet as “assets held for sale” and “liabilities held for sale.” on initial
classification as held for sale, non-current assets or assets and liabilities of disposal groups are first
measured in accordance with the applicable ifrss. they are measured at the lower of their carrying
amount and fair value less costs to sell, with disposal groups being measured as a whole. as the
carrying amount of held-for-sale depreciable assets is principally realized by the disposal rather than
the use of these assets, they are no longer depreciated once they have been reclassified.

if a disposal group represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operation, it
qualifies as a discontinued operation. the results of discontinued operations are reported separately in
the income statement as profit or loss after tax from discontinued operations. in addition, the prior-
year comparatives are adjusted in the income statement so that the results of these operations are also
reported under discontinued operations. cash flows from discontinued operations are reported
separately in the cash flow statement; in this case as well the prior-year comparatives are adjusted
accordingly. revenue and expenditures from intragroup transactions are taken into account when
presenting results from discontinued operations if they will continue to arise after the disposal of a
discontinued operation.

as a general principle, the disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements relate to the
assets or liabilities recognized in the corresponding line items and to continuing operations. where
disclosures relate to gea group including assets held for sale, as well as the associated liabilities, and
discontinued operations, this is indicated either by a statement that the disclosures refer to the
complete group, or by another comment.

subscribed capital
ordinary shares are classified as equity. treasury shares are deducted from the equity attributable to
the shareholders of gea group aktiengesellschaft.




                                        gea group annual report 2014                                             143

                          notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




      obligations under pension plans
      obligations under pension plans relate to post-employment benefit obligations. defined benefit
      obligations are calculated using the projected unit credit method. the present value of these obligations
      reflects expected future salary and pension trends, since the entitlements earnable in the period up to
      the retirement age depend on these. claims under supplementary healthcare benefit insurance are
      included in the actuarial measurement of assumptions made in respect of healthcare cost trends. the
      pension obligations are measured on the basis of actuarial reports by independent actuaries.

      in order to provide these pension benefits, the company in some cases holds financial assets in long-
      term funds outside gea group and qualifying insurance policies. insofar as the entitlements are
      funded by such external assets (plan assets), their fair value is offset against the present value of the
      defined benefit obligation. the resulting balance is reported under non-current employee benefit
      obligations or other non-current financial assets (net carrying amount).

      actuarial gains and losses from the remeasurement of the net carrying amount are recognized in other
      comprehensive income in the year in which they arise and reported in retained earnings after
      adjustment for tax effects. this also applies to the recognition of the difference between the actual
      returns on plan assets and the returns calculated using the discount factor. costs from unwinding the
      discount on the net carrying amount are recognized in interest expenses; income is recognized in
      interest income. current and past service cost for the period, as well as gains and losses from
      settlements, are recognized in the relevant function costs.

      other employee benefit obligations
      other employee benefit obligations comprise other long-term benefits and all short-term benefits.
      short-term employee benefit obligations are expected to be settled in full no more than 12 months after
      completion of the service rendered. they include wages, salaries, social insurance contributions, paid
      vacation, and profit-sharing arrangements. they are recognized as an expense at the same time as the
      work is remunerated. any expenditure in excess of the payments already made is reported as a deferred
      liability at the reporting date. other long-term employee benefits, such as jubilee payments or partial
      retirement arrangements, are recognized at the actuarial present value of the obligation at the reporting
      date. securities are pledged to the beneficiaries to protect vested partial retirement credits against the
      employer’s insolvency. the fair value of these securities is offset against the corresponding liability.

      provisions
      provisions for uncertain liabilities are recognized where there is a legal or constructive obligation to a
      third party, a future outflow of resources is likely, and the expected settlement value can be estimated
      reliably. the present value of the settlement amount is recognized if the time value of money is




144                                          gea group annual report 2014

                     notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




material. amounts are discounted at the market rates for the appropriate maturity and currency.
discount unwinding costs are reported in interest expense.

the cost at the time when reserve is recognized is reported in cost of sales when warranty of provisions
are recognized. in all other cases, provisions are recognized when the product is accepted. the
provision is measured on the basis of both the warranty cost actually incurred in the past and on the
evaluated overall risk inherent in the system or product. provisions are also recognized if a claim is
made under a warranty and a loss is likely. recourse claims against suppliers are capitalized if their
services are subject to a warranty and it is highly likely that the claim can be enforced.

provisions for expected losses from onerous contracts are recognized if the unavoidable costs of
meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under
it. the unavoidable costs also include the unavoidable overheads needed to meet the obligations.

financial liabilities
financial liabilities comprise bonds, liabilities to banks, and liabilities under finance leases. they are
initially recognized at fair value less transaction costs. they are subsequently measured at amortized
cost using the effective interest method. liabilities under finance leases are initially measured at the
lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of minimum lease payments.

other liabilities
the recognition and subsequent measurement of other liabilities is the same as for financial liabilities,
with the exception of advance payments and the gross amount due to customers for contract work.
advance payments are stated at their principal amount. please see the information provided on the
recognition of construction contracts for the measurement of the gross amount due to customers for
contract work.

trade payables
trade payables also include liabilities for goods received or services rendered that have not yet been
invoiced, as there is only slight uncertainty as to the amount of the liability. trade payables are recognized
at fair value. this corresponds to the settlement amount in the case of liabilities due within one year.

revenue recognition
revenue from the sale of goods is recognized when the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of
the goods sold are transferred to the customer. this normally occurs when the goods are handed over
to the customer. revenue from services is recognized when the service is rendered. revenue is
measured at the fair value of the consideration received or to be received. customer bonuses, discounts,
or rebates reduce the amount of revenue recognized.




                                        gea group annual report 2014                                             145

                           notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




      revenue from construction contracts is generally recognized using the percentage of completion
      method under which revenue is recognized in accordance with the stage of completion. the stage of
      completion is determined using the ratio of contract costs incurred as of the reporting date to the total
      estimated contract costs as of the reporting date (cost-to-cost method). contract costs include direct
      costs plus materials and construction overheads, depreciation, production-related administrative
      costs, and such other costs that are specifically chargeable to the customer under the terms of the
      contract. where a construction contract is performed over a long period and where the contract is
      largely financed by gea group, contract costs also include directly attributable borrowing costs.
      conversely, income from the investment of advance payments received is offset against contract costs
      where this has a material influence on the contract margin. adjustments are made for variations in
      contract work, claims, and incentive payments insofar as these will probably result in revenue that is
      capable of being reliably estimated.

      in line with the percentage of completion method, construction contracts are measured as the contract
      costs incurred as of the reporting date plus the profit attributable to the proportion of work completed.
      revenue recognized is reported under trade payables, less progress billings. if the outcome of a
      construction contract cannot be reliably estimated, the probable recoverable revenue is recognized up
      to the amount of the costs incurred. contract costs are recognized as an expense in the period in which
      they are incurred. if it is foreseeable that the total contract costs will exceed the contract revenue, the
      expected loss is recognized immediately as an expense.

      interest income is recognized ratably over the remaining maturity based on the effective interest rate
      and the amount of the remaining receivable. dividend income on equity instruments is recognized if
      the right to receive payment is based on legally assertable claims.

      revenue from royalties is recognized in the period in which it arises in accordance with the underlying
      contracts

      share-based payment
      gea group has a share-based payment program under which selected managers are granted
      performance shares. the fair value of these rights is calculated at the grant date and allocated as an
      expense over the vesting period using the straight-line method; a corresponding provision is
      recognized. the provision is remeasured at each reporting date and at the payment date. furthermore,
      in fiscal years 2010 and 2011, part of the bonuses earned by executive board members was converted
      into phantom shares. the entitlement from phantom shares is measured at the current share price at
      the reporting date. in fiscal year 2012, a long-term share price component was introduced as part of the
      revision of the variable remuneration system for executive board members. payment from this
      remuneration component is dependent on the performance of gea shares compared with a benchmark
      index. the entitlement from the long-term share price component is measured at fair value at the
      reporting date. changes in the fair value of the provision for share-based payment programs are
      recognized as interest expense or income (see section 6.3.4).

      in addition, one group company grants its employees options on shares of the company via a trustee.
      the cost of this share-based payment is estimated at the grant date and amortized using the straight-
      line method up to the exercise date (see section 6.1).




146                                           gea group annual report 2014

                     notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




research and development
research expenditures are recognized immediately as an expense. development costs that are designed
to significantly enhance a product or process are capitalized if completion of the product or process is
technically and economically feasible, the development is marketable, the expenditures can be measured
reliably, and adequate resources are available to complete the development project. all other development
expenditures are recognized immediately as expenses. capitalized development expenditures for
completed projects are reported at cost less cumulative amortization and impairment losses. capitalized
development costs for intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment once a year.

development costs that are required under construction contracts are capitalized as part of the cost of
the asset.

government grants
government grants are recognized at fair value provided that the group meets the conditions necessary
to receive the grant. government grants to cover expenses are recognized over the period in which the
costs for which the grants were awarded are incurred. government grants for capital expenditure are
deducted from the cost of purchasing the corresponding asset.

2.2      estimates and management judgment
preparation of financial statements requires management to make certain estimates and exercise
judgment that may affect the company’s assets, liabilities, provisions, and deferred tax assets and
liabilities, as well as its income and expenses and contingent liabilities.

factors that may cause amounts to fall below estimates might include a deterioration in the global
economy, movements in exchange rates and interest rates, as well as material litigation and changes in
environmental or other legislation. production errors, the loss of key customers, and rising borrowing
costs may also adversely affect the group’s future performance.

the recognition and measurement of the following assets and liabilities are in some cases based on
management judgment. all assumptions represent the best of management’s knowledge and belief in
order to convey a true and fair view of the company’s net assets, financial position, and results of
operations. if actual circumstances subsequently differ from those forecast, this will affect the
recognition and measurement of assets and liabilities. depending on the item concerned, earnings
may also be affected.

basis of consolidation
management judgment was applied in defining the basis of consolidation (see section 2.1), particularly
with regard to assessing which subsidiaries to exclude from the consolidated financial statements on
the basis of materiality.

acquisitions
goodwill is reported in the balance sheet as a result of acquisitions. when an acquired company is
initially consolidated, all its identifiable assets, liabilities, and contingent liabilities are recognized at
their acquisition-date fair value. a basic problem is estimating these fair values. as a rule, land and




                                        gea group annual report 2014                                             147

                            notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




      buildings are measured on the basis of independent appraisals. if intangible assets are identified, their
      fair values are calculated using an appropriate measurement method. these measurements are made
      on the basis of assumptions by management with respect to the future value of the relevant assets and
      the discount rate. obligations for contingent consideration are recognized on the basis of the current
      planning.

      goodwill
      the group tests goodwill for impairment annually. the recoverable amounts calculated for this
      purpose for segments classified as continuing operations are determined based on value in use. value
      in use is calculated using assumptions by management (see section 5.3).

      taxes
      gea group operates in a large number of countries and is therefore subject to different tax jurisdictions.
      calculating tax liabilities requires management to make various estimates. management believes that
      it has made a reasonable estimate of tax uncertainties. however, no assurance can be given that the
      actual outcome of these uncertainties will correspond to the estimates made. any deviations may have
      an impact on the level of tax liabilities or deferred taxes in the year of the decision.

      when assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets, management judges the extent to which
      realization of the deferred tax assets is sufficiently likely. the question of whether the deferred tax
      assets can actually be realized depends on whether sufficient future taxable income can be generated
      against which the temporary differences or tax loss carryforwards can be offset. management therefore
      analyzes the times at which the deferred tax liabilities reverse, and expected future taxable income.
      management forecasts whether deferred tax assets can be realized on the basis of expected future
      taxable income. deferred tax assets decline if the estimate of planned taxable income decreases, if tax
      benefits available as a result of tax strategies are reduced, or the amount or timing of future tax benefits
      is restricted by changes in the law (see section 7.7).

      measurement of assets held for sale, liabilities associated with assets held for sale, and classification
      of operations as discontinued
      assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and
      fair value less costs to sell. assumptions by management are taken into account when determining fair
      value less costs to sell. the classification as held for sale or the classification of activities as attributable
      to discontinued operations also require estimates by management. these estimates relate in particular
      to the question of whether the carrying amount of a non-current asset or a disposal group will be
      recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use, and whether the
      criteria set out under ifrs 5 have been met overall.




148                                            gea group annual report 2014

                    notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




provisions and contingent liabilities
changes in estimates of the probability of a present obligation or of an outflow of resources embodying
economic benefits could mean that items previously classified as contingent liabilities must be reported
as provisions, or that the amount of provisions must be adjusted (see section 6.2). this also applies in
particular to environmental obligations.

obligations under pension plans
the present value of pension obligations depends on actuarial assumptions. these assumptions
comprise discount rates, expected wage and salary increases, as well as the pension increase rate and
mortality rates. these assumptions could differ significantly from actual future outcomes as a result of
changes in market and economic conditions, and could therefore have a material effect on the level of
the obligation and the related expenses.

the discount rate used to measure the net carrying amount is calculated at the end of each year. this is
the rate used to calculate the present value of future cash outflows expected to be required to settle the
obligation. in order to calculate the discount rate, the group uses the interest rate on high-quality
corporate bonds denominated in the same currency in which the benefits are paid and whose terms to
maturity correspond to those of the pension obligations.

other significant assumptions relating to pension obligations are partly based on market conditions
(see section 6.3.1).

construction contracts
the recognition of construction contracts using the percentage of completion method is based on
management’s estimates of the cost of such contracts. changes in estimates or differences between the
estimated cost and the actual cost have a direct effect on recognized earnings from construction
contracts. the operating units continuously review the estimates and adjust them if required.

litigation
in some cases, gea group companies are parties to litigation. the outcome of this litigation could have
a material effect on the group’s net assets, financial position, and results of operations. management
regularly analyzes current information on these legal disputes and recognizes provisions for probable
obligations, including estimated legal costs. both internal counsel and external lawyers are used to
make this assessment. when deciding on the need to recognize provisions, management takes into
account the probability of an unfavorable outcome and its ability to estimate the amount of the
obligation with sufficient reliability. the filing of a suit or the formal assertion of a claim against a
gea group company does not necessarily mean that a provision must be recognized for the related
risk (see section 8.4).




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                          149

                       notes to the consolidated financial statements / financial risk management




      3.       financial risk management
      the executive board has put in place an effective set of guidelines to manage and hence largely limit
      or hedge financial risks throughout the group. the objectives with regard to protecting assets,
      eliminating gaps in security, and improving efficiency in identifying and analyzing risks are clearly
      defined, as are the relevant organizational structures, powers, and responsibilities. the guidelines are
      based on the principles of system security, the separation of functions, transparency, and immediate
      documentation.

      for further information, please see the discussion of the risk management system in the management
      report.

      because it operates worldwide, gea group is exposed to currency, interest rate, commodity price,
      credit, and liquidity risk in the course of its ordinary activities. financial risk management aims to
      reduce this risk through the appropriate use of derivative and nonderivative hedging instruments.

      currency risk
      because gea group operates internationally, its cash flows are denominated not only in euros, but also
      in a number of other currencies, particularly u.s. dollars. hedging the resulting currency risk is a key
      element of risk management.

      the group guideline requires all group companies to hedge foreign currency items as they arise in
      order to fix prices on the basis of hedging rates. currency risks are hedged for recognized hedged
      items, unrecognized firm commitments, and highly probable transactions. the hedging periods are
      determined by the maturity of the hedged items and are usually up to 12 months, but in exceptional
      cases may exceed that period significantly. despite the hedging requirement, changes in exchange
      rates may affect sales opportunities outside the eurozone.

      group companies based in the eurozone are obliged to tender to gea group’s central finance unit all
      outstanding exposures relating to transactions in goods and services in major transaction currencies.
      most of these exposures are passed on directly to banks at matching maturities, depending on the
      hedging objective of the derivatives and the related accounting treatment; they may also be hedged as
      part of a portfolio. the hedging of financial transactions and transactions conducted by subsidiaries
      outside the eurozone is also closely coordinated with the central finance unit.

      interest rate risk
      because gea group operates worldwide, liquidity is raised and invested in the international money
      and capital markets in different currencies (but mainly in euros) and at different maturities. the
      resulting financial liabilities and investments are exposed to interest rate risk, which must be assessed
      and managed by central financial management. derivative financial instruments may be used on a
      case-by-case basis to hedge interest rate risk and reduce the interest rate volatility and financing costs
      of the hedged items. only the central finance unit is permitted to enter into such interest rate hedges.




150                                          gea group annual report 2014

                  notes to the consolidated financial statements / financial risk management




all interest rate derivatives are allocated to individual loans. the hedging relationships are documented
and recognized as cash flow hedges. overall, the interest expense from the loans and the allocated
derivatives reported in the income statement reflects the fixed interest rate for the hedging relationship.

cross-currency swaps were used in connection with the financing of acquisitions in canada and the
uk. they are recognized at fair value. however, they are not included in any documented hedging
relationship with intragroup hedged items. the earnings effects arising from changes to currency
parities that have occurred since the beginning of the cross-currency swaps, and the earnings effects
due to the related intragroup receivables, do not match due to different calculation bases (forward rate
relative to spot rate). the difference in value amounted to eur –270 thousand in fiscal year 2014
(previous year: eur –653 thousand).

commodity price risk
gea group requires various metals such as aluminum, copper, and steel, whose purchase prices can be
subject to substantial fluctuations depending on the market situation. long-term supply agreements
have been entered into with various suppliers in order to hedge commodity price risk.

credit risk
financial instruments are exposed to credit risk in that the other party to the contract may fail to fulfill
its obligations. the counterparty limit system used by gea group for financial management aims to
continuously assess and manage counterparty default risk. a maximum risk limit has been defined for
each counterparty, which in most cases is derived from the ratings from recognized credit rating
agencies and credit default swaps (cdss). appropriate action is taken if the individual limit is exceeded.
the financial standing of potential customers is ascertained before orders are accepted using an
internal risk board procedure. active receivables management, including nonrecourse factoring and
credit insurance, is also performed. in the case of export transactions, confirmed and unconfirmed
letters of credit are used alongside sureties, guarantees, and cover notes, including from export credit
agencies such as euler hermes. in addition to local monitoring by the subsidiary in question, gea
group oversees the main credit risks at group management level so that any accumulation of risk can
be better managed.

since trade receivables are usually due from a large number of customers in different sectors and
regions, there is no concentration of risk. valuation allowances take account of specific credit risks.

so as to reduce the credit risk involved, derivative financial instruments are only entered into with
reputable financial institutions.

the maximum exposure for the financial assets is limited to their carrying amount.

liquidity risk
gea group is exposed to liquidity risk in that it may be unable to meet payment obligations because it
has insufficient cash funds at its disposal. gea group is responsible for managing this risk. cash funds
are arranged and credit lines managed on the basis of a multi-year financial plan and a rolling month-
by-month cash forecast. the funds are then made available to the companies by group management.
cash flow from operating activities is the most important source of liquidity. cash pools have been




                                        gea group annual report 2014                                           151

                                    notes to the consolidated financial statements / financial risk management




      established in 13 countries in order to optimize borrowing and the use of cash funds within gea
      group. to achieve this, the cash pools automatically balance the accounts of the participating group
      companies every day by crediting or debiting a target account at gea group aktiengesellschaft. this
      prevents separate cash investments and borrowings by these companies to a large extent. any
      additional liquidity requirements are generally borrowed by the gea group aktiengesellschaft, which
      also invests surplus liquidity.

      the following tables show the undiscounted contractually agreed interest and principal payments for
      financial liabilities, including derivative financial instruments with negative fair values:

                                                                                                        cash flows
                                                                      carrying
      (eur thousand)                                                  amount     < 1 year   1-2 years     2-3 years   3-4 years   4-5 years   > 5 years

      2014
      trade payables                                                  639,719    638,994         725             –           –           –           –
      borrower‘s note loan                                             90,541      2,453       2,453        92,453           –           –           –
      bonds                                                           282,202     11,676    286,415              –           –           –           –
      liabilities to banks                                            156,377    107,857       1,783        51,030          70           –           –
      liabilities under finance leases                                 34,929      3,997       3,946         4,165       3,906       3,906     51,963
      liabilities to investees                                          1,129      1,129           –             –           –           –           –
      currency derivatives not included in a recognized
      hedging relationship                                              4,945    213,486       5,668             –           –           –           –
      currency derivatives included in a cash flow hedge                9,695    230,499       6,682           343           –           –           –
      interest rate and cross-currency derivatives not included
      in a recognized hedging relationship                              6,500      8,222       7,837        27,328       3,809           –           –
      interest rate and cross-currency derivatives included
      in a cash flow hedge                                              3,228      1,238       1,242           926           –           –           –
      other financial liabilities                                     160,086    118,928     86,480         12,989     14,765      10,378        4,254

      2013
      trade payables                                                  646,529    645,985         544             –           –           –           –
      borrower‘s note loan                                            300,358      6,978       7,472         8,589    307,737            –           –
      bonds                                                           410,220     17,000     17,000        417,000           –           –           –
      liabilities to banks                                            260,756     44,223     37,124         36,056    150,863           70           –
      liabilities under finance leases                                 36,198      4,172       4,500         3,908       3,906       3,906     59,203
      liabilities to investees                                          1,130      1,130           –             –           –           –           –
      currency derivatives not included in a recognized
      hedging relationship                                              5,775    348,450         196             –           –           –           –
      currency derivatives included in a cash flow hedge                2,741    124,500       5,482             –           –           –           –
      interest rate and cross-currency derivatives not included
      in a recognized hedging relationship                              5,210      8,146       7,769         7,406     26,095        3,559           –
      interest rate and cross-currency derivatives included
      in a cash flow hedge                                              3,265      1,238       1,238         1,241         926           –           –
      other financial liabilities                                      59,748     58,088       1,660             –           –           –           –



      all financial liabilities outstanding as of december 31, 2014, are included in the above table on the basis
      of expected contractual cash flows. projected figures for future new liabilities are not taken into
      account. foreign currency amounts are translated at the closing rates. in the case of financial liabilities
      that can be repaid at any time, it is assumed that they will be repaid within one year.

      payments for derivative financial instruments totaling eur 507,280 thousand (previous
      year: eur 536,246 thousand) were partially offset by payments received from the same instruments of
      eur 480,377 thousand (previous year: eur 518,477 thousand).




152                                                               gea group annual report 2014

                            notes to the consolidated financial statements / financial risk management




as of december 31, 2014, the group held cash credit lines of eur 1,305,421 thousand (previous
year: eur 1,740,182 thousand), eur 529,106 thousand of which has been utilized (previous
year: eur 974,277 thousand). the cash credit lines are composed of the following items:

                                                                                  12/31/2014   12/31/2014     12/31/2013   12/31/2013
(eur thousand)                                                        maturity      approved       utilized     approved       utilized
gea bond                                                            april 2016      274,739       274,739       400,000       400,000
kreditanstalt für wiederaufbau (kfw)                          early redemption            –              –       60,000        60,000
kreditanstalt für wiederaufbau (kfw)                          early redemption            –              –       42,000        42,000
                                                  partial repayment amounting
                                                  to eur 100,000 thousand on
                                                  january 14, 2015; remaining
european investment bank                               portion on july 14, 2017     150,000       150,000       150,000       150,000
borrower‘s note loan                                          september 2017         90,000        90,000       300,000       300,000
syndicated credit line („club deal“)                              august 2019       650,000              –      650,000              –
various (bilateral) credit lines including        maximum of 1 year or “until
accured interests                                            further notice“        140,682        14,367       138,182        22,277
total                                                                             1,305,421       529,106     1,740,182       974,277



gea group aktiengesellschaft used some of the proceeds from the completed sale of the heat
exchangers segment to repay financial liabilities ahead of schedule. in the fourth quarter of fiscal
year 2014, financial liabilities were reduced by more than eur 400,000 thousand through various
measures.

specifically, two loans from kreditanstalt für wiederaufbau (kfw) totaling eur 71,500 thousand were
repaid. in addition, gea repurchased bonds it had issued amounting to eur 125,261 thousand.
borrower’s note loans amounting to eur 210,000 thousand were also repaid early.

to ensure long-term group financing, gea group aktiengesellschaft took out a syndicated credit line
in the form of a club deal amounting to eur 650,000 thousand in august 2013. the loan originally had
a term of five years and included two prolongation options of one year each. the first option was
exercised in the year under review, with the loan extended by one year until 2019. there is still an
option to extend the loan for a further year.

as of december 31, 2014, guarantee lines for the performance of contracts, advance payments, and
warranty obligations of eur 1,732,338 thousand were available to the group as a whole (previous
year: eur 1,886,355 thousand), eur 462,077 thousand of which has been utilized (previous
year: eur 707,924 thousand). in the previous year, eur 253,658 thousand of this amount was attributable
to the sold gea hx segment. the guarantees are generally payable at first demand. as is generally
customary for this type of order collateral and financing instrument, guarantees have only been drawn
on by gea group in extremely rare exceptional cases in recent years.

as of december 31, 2014, eur 34,151 thousand of bank guarantees under gea group aktiengesellschaft
credit lines were granted to customers of the gea hx segment, which was sold as of october 31, 2014,
to collateralize the segment’s contractual obligations. the purchaser of the gea hx segment has
granted bank guarantees of eur 17,954 thousand in favor of gea group aktiengesellschaft to cover
the unlikely event of default.

in addition, gea group aktiengesellschaft has issued group guarantees of eur 108,045 thousand to
collateralize the gea hx segment’s contractual obligations. to hedge the risk of claims being made
under the guarantees, gea group aktiengesellschaft has received bank guarantees from the purchaser
of the gea hx segment in the amount of eur 32,413 thousand.




                                                  gea group annual report 2014                                                            153

                       notes to the consolidated financial statements / financial risk management




      as of the year-end, eur 84 thousand (previous year: eur 284 thousand) of bank guarantees under gea
      group aktiengesellschaft credit lines and eur 99,733 thousand (previous year: eur 88,101 thousand) of
      group guarantees were granted to lurgi ag’s customers to collateralize that company’s contractual
      obligations in the unlikely event of default. the purchaser of the lurgi group has granted bank guarantees
      that cover the amount for which gea group aktiengesellschaft is liable under the bank guarantees
      issued. eur 2,830 thousand (previous year: eur 9,669 thousand) of bank guarantees under gea group
      aktiengesellschaft credit lines and eur 71,764 thousand (previous year: eur 69,582 thousand) of group
      guarantees were granted to lentjes gmbh’s customers to collateralize that company’s contractual
      obligations.

      future payments from operating leases are reported separately under other financial liabilities (see
      section 8.2).

      foreign currency sensitivity analysis
      gea group companies are always exposed to foreign currency risk if their cash flows are denominated
      in a currency other than their own functional currency. foreign currency risk is hedged using suitable
      instruments, thus largely offsetting fluctuations arising from the hedged item and the hedging
      transaction over their term.

      the foreign currency risk presented in the sensitivity analysis results from the following transactions:

      - currency derivatives that are included in hedging relationships for previously unrecognized hedged
        items, i.e. for contractually agreed or expected transactions.
        as these hedging relationships are regularly documented as such and presented as cash flow hedges,
        only equity is affected by exchange rate risk.

      - cross-currency swaps
        although swaps are matched by intragroup receivables as hedged items, they are not included in a
        documented hedging relationship. while receivables are measured using the spot rate, the currency
        components of the swaps are measured on the basis of the forward rates. the two rates could differ
        significantly depending on the interest rate difference between the two currencies.

      - unhedged foreign currency transactions
        the translation of foreign currency receivables or liabilities at the closing rate has a direct effect on
        earnings.




154                                          gea group annual report 2014

                 notes to the consolidated financial statements / financial risk management




the currency pairs in which the major part of the foreign currency cash flows are settled are included
as relevant risk variables in the foreign currency sensitivity analysis. the following table shows the
sensitivity of a 10 percent increase or decrease in the euro from the perspective of the group:


(eur thousand)                                  nominal amount    profit/loss for the year              equity
base currency             foreign currency                                 2014                         2014
                                                                     + 10%                   –10%    + 10%        –10%
eur                       usd                           707,951           –9                   11     9,042      –11,046
eur                       dkk                           182,816      –1,635                  1,999       –            –
eur                       gbp                           130,089        1,265             –1,546      –1,334        1,630
eur                       cny                            52,146         –598                  731       42          –51
eur                       zar                            36,674        2,520             –3,080        500         –612
eur                       cad                            26,375        2,712             –3,315          3           –4



(eur thousand)                                  nominal amount    profit/loss for the year              equity
base currency             foreign currency                                 2013                         2013
                                                                     + 10%                   –10%    + 10%        –10%
eur                       usd                           422,789          175                 –214     5,901       –7,213
eur                       gbp                           174,846        1,913             –2,338      –1,183        1,445
eur                       nzd                           103,328          –17                   20     –946         1,152
eur                       cny                            79,052          776                 –949     –986         1,205
eur                       cad                            27,240        2,843             –3,475          –            –
eur                       inr                             5,069          461                 –563        –            –



the nominal amount relates to all contractually agreed foreign currency cash flows as of the reporting
date, which are translated into euros at the closing rate.

the potential fluctuations in the profit or loss for the year result primarily from derivatives that are
not included in a designated hedging relationship, but are used to avoid currency risk as part of the
general hedging strategy.

interest rate sensitivity analysis
the interest rate sensitivity analysis presents the effects of changes in market interest rates on interest
income and expenses, and equity. the sensitivity analyses are based on the following assumptions:

- nonderivative fixed-rate financial instruments are only subject to on-balance-sheet interest rate risk if
  they are measured at fair value. gea group measures such financial instruments at amortized cost.

- nonderivative variable-rate financial instruments whose interest payments are not included as
  hedged items in a hedging relationship that is recognized as a cash flow hedge are subject to interest
  rate risk in the income statement.

- interest rate derivatives included in a hedging relationship that is recognized as a cash flow hedge
  are subject to equity-related interest rate risk in the amount of the effective portion of the hedging
  relationship.

- interest rate derivatives not included in a hedging relationship that is recognized as a cash flow
  hedge are subject to interest rate risk in the income statement.

- currency derivatives are not subject to material interest rate risk and therefore have no effect on
  interest rate sensitivity.




                                             gea group annual report 2014                                                  155

                                   notes to the consolidated financial statements / financial risk management




      the sensitivity analysis assumes a linear shift in the yield curves for all currencies of +100 or –10 basis
      points as of the reporting date. relatively speaking, there is less of a downward shift in the yield curve
      shift assumed for the sensitivity analysis than an upward shift. the low, near 0 percent interest rate
      level avoids a shift to a significant negative interest rate. this results in the following effects for the
      simulated scenarios:

                                                                                12/31/2014                              12/31/2013
      (eur thousand)                                                + 100 basis points   –10 basis points   + 100 basis points       –10 basis points
      interest rate risk recognized in equity                                   1,189                –72                1,705                  –161
      interest rate risk recognized in profit or loss                           1,127                –73               –2,218                    233



      the calculation is based on a net volume of eur 128,640 thousand (previous year: eur 475,411 thousand).
      the calculation does not include the variable rate portion of the loan from the european investment
      bank (eib) of eur 100,000 thousand that is not hedged using interest rate swaps, since this amount
      was repaid in january 2015.

      capital management
      gea group aktiengesellschaft’s key financial objective is to sustainably increase its enterprise value in
      the interests of investors, employees, customers, and suppliers, while safeguarding and securing the
      group’s solvency at all times.

      improving profitability and, as a result, increasing the return on capital employed therefore takes
      priority in all business decisions. our strict focus on contract margin quality is also derived from this.
      equally, external growth through potential acquisitions is viewed from the perspective of this goal.

      capital management, in the form of generating sufficient liquidity reserves, plays a crucial role in the
      pursuit of these enterprise goals. not only does it ensure gea group’s long-term existence, it also
      creates the entrepreneurial flexibility needed to enhance and update current business activities and to
      take advantage of strategic opportunities. it is achieved by managing liquidity reserves and available
      credit lines on an ongoing basis using short- and medium-term forecasts of future liquidity trends and
      borrowing requirements.

      the capital structure is monitored regularly using various key financial indicators so as to optimize
      capital costs. core indicators include the equity ratio and the net debt to equity ratio (gearing). net
      debt for the complete group is calculated as follows:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                                 12/31/2014          12/31/2013
      liabilities to banks                                                                                             –156,377            –263,750
       thereof liabilities held for sale                                                                                         –           –2,994
      borrower‘s note loan                                                                                              –90,541            –300,358
      bonds                                                                                                            –282,202            –410,220
      cash and cash equivalents                                                                                       1,195,858             795,777
       thereof assets held for sale                                                                                              –          112,257
      current securities                                                                                                 37,036                    –
      fixed deposits with a remaining period ≤ 1 year                                                                   199,961                    –
      net liquidity (+)/net debt (-)                                                                                    903,735            –178,551
      equity                                                                                                          2,527,207           2,315,702
      equity ratio                                                                                                        43.3%              35.8%
      gearing                                                                                                            –35.8%                7.7%




156                                                      gea group annual report 2014

                notes to the consolidated financial statements / financial risk management /
                    assets held for sale, liabilities held for sale, and discontinued operations




net debt was fully eliminated over the course of the fiscal year. in particular, the cash inflow from the
sale of the gea heat exchangers segment led to a change of eur 1,082,286 thousand, resulting in net
liquidity of eur 903,735 thousand as of december 31, 2014.

two international rating agencies, moody’s and fitch, again rated gea group aktiengesellschaft’s
ability to meet its financial obligations. the two agencies upgraded their ratings compared with the
previous year. the ratings for gea group are as follows:

                                                                2014                               2013
agency                                                       rating         outlook          rating       outlook
moody‘s                                                       baa2           stable           baa3         stable
fitch                                                          bbb           stable           bbb-         stable



gea group’s investment grade rating in the “bbb” range ensures that it has good financing opportunities
both with banks and directly on the capital markets. the current ratings reflect gea group’s strong
solvency and ensure access to the international financial markets.


4.        assets held for sale, liabilities held for sale, and 		
          discontinued operations
gea heat exchangers segment
following a comprehensive technological and strategic review of gea group’s segments, the executive
board of gea group aktiengesellschaft initiated the sale of the gea heat exchangers segment
(gea hx) in june 2013 with the agreement of the supervisory board. the gea hx segment has one of
the largest heat exchanger portfolios in the world and provides products and systems for numerous
applications and areas of use, ranging from air conditioning systems to cooling towers. there is
however only a limited potential for synergies between gea hx and the other segments in gea
group’s portfolio due to the differing business profiles.

gea group entered into an agreement for the sale of the gea hx segment to funds advised by triton
on april 16, 2014; the transaction was completed on october 31, 2014.

the selling price for the gea hx segment was based on an enterprise value calculated as of the
december 31, 2013, reporting date. the purchase price was not adjusted to reflect any profit generated
by gea hx between that date and completion of the transaction. consequently, the profit recorded by
gea hx after december 31, 2013, was to the economic advantage of the purchaser on completion of the
transaction.

as the ifrs 5 conditions were met for the first time at the 2013 year-end, the gea hx segment was
classified as a discontinued operation as of that date. this means that income and expenses from the
gea hx segment are reported in the income statement under profit or loss after tax from discontinued
operations. in addition, the assets and liabilities of the gea hx disposal group were reported in the
balance sheet under “assets held for sale” and “liabilities held for sale” from december 31, 2013, until
the completion of the transaction.




                                        gea group annual report 2014                                                157

                                   notes to the consolidated financial statements / financial risk management /
                                       assets held for sale, liabilities held for sale, and discontinued operations




      the assets and liabilities of the gea hx disposal group as of december 31, 2013, and the assets and
      liabilities disposed of on completion of the transaction on october 31, 2014, are outlined in the table
      below:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                          10/31/2014      12/31/2013
      property, plant and equipment                                                                              287,639        255,378
      investment property                                                                                              281          281
      goodwill                                                                                                   502,553        524,423
      other intangible assets                                                                                     51,199         44,771
      equity-accounted investments                                                                                    6,321       6,466
      other non-current financial assets                                                                              6,838       8,265
      deferred taxes                                                                                              45,082         46,412
      inventories                                                                                                159,951        142,285
      trade receivables                                                                                          429,126        403,516
      income tax receivables                                                                                          6,216       4,225
      other current financial assets                                                                              59,009         44,709
      cash and cash equivalents                                                                                   79,200        112,257
      other current assets                                                                                                –           –
      disposed assets (10/31/2014) / assets held for sale (12/31/2013)                                         1,633,415      1,592,988
      non-current provisions                                                                                      14,501         10,516
      non-current employee benefit obligations                                                                    33,177         27,718
      non-current financial liabilities                                                                           13,442          5,178
      other non-current liabilities                                                                                    574          470
      deferred taxes                                                                                              25,560         26,716
      current provisions                                                                                          78,737         81,703
      current employee benefit obligations                                                                        42,457         38,220
      current financial liabilities                                                                                   6,560       4,300
      trade payables                                                                                             228,203        233,131
      income tax liabilities                                                                                      25,200          9,220
      other current liabilities                                                                                  175,950        182,694
      disposed liabilities (10/31/2014) / liabilities held for sale (12/31/2013)                                 644,361        619,866



      the carrying amount of the gea hx disposal group was written down to its fair value less costs to sell
      as of september 30, 2014, resulting in an impairment loss of eur 22,383 thousand. the entire
      impairment loss was allocated to the goodwill of the disposal group.

      the fair value less costs to sell as of september 30, 2014, was measured on the basis of the contractual
      sale price and estimates of the cash outflows attributable to the costs to sell.

      the result from the sale is calculated as follows:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                                               2014
      total disposed assets                                                                                                    1,633,415
      total disposed liabilities                                                                                               –644,361
      disposed net assets                                                                                                       989,054
      proceeds from disposal (paid in cash)                                                                                    1,059,307
      less attributable costs to sell                                                                                           –95,226
      profit from reclassification of exchange differences on translating foreign operations                                      6,784
      loss on disposal before taxes                                                                                             –18,189
      income taxes                                                                                                               –1,234
      loss on disposal after taxes                                                                                              –19,423




158                                                             gea group annual report 2014

                          notes to the consolidated financial statements / financial risk management /
                              assets held for sale, liabilities held for sale, and discontinued operations




in addition to the transaction costs, costs to sell include expenses from the recognition of liabilities for
contractual warranties associated with the sale, including obligations from risk sharing for large
projects.

the cash flow from the sale is outlined in the table below:


(eur thousand)                                                                                                              2014
proceeds from disposal                                                                                                 1,059,307
disposed cash and cash equivalents                                                                                       –79,200
net cash flow from disposal                                                                                              980,107



the results of the gea hx discontinued operation are as follows:

                                                                                                    01/01/2014 -     01/01/2013 -
(eur thousand)                                                                                       12/31/2014       12/31/2013
revenues                                                                                              1,172,961        1,489,067
other revenue                                                                                            32,173           30,182
expenses                                                                                              1,106,724        1,414,305
profit or loss from operating activities before tax from discontinued operations                         98,410          104,944
income taxes                                                                                             23,778           51,142
profit or loss from operating activities after tax from discontinued operations                          74,632           53,802
profit or loss from valuation adjustment/disposal                                                        40,572                –
income taxes                                                                                                 1,234             –
profit or loss from valuation adjustment/disposal after tax                                              41,806                –
profit or loss after tax from discontinued operations                                                    32,826           53,802
 thereof attributable to shareholders of gea group ag                                                    32,678           53,449
 thereof attributable to non-controlling interests                                                            148            353



as of december 31, 2014, the accumulated expenses recognized in other comprehensive income linked
to the disposal group gea hx excluding actuarial losses amount to eur 0 thousand (previous
year: eur 3,569 thousand).

other assets held for sale, liabilities associated with assets held for sale, and discontinued
operations
assets held for sale are reported at a carrying amount of eur 5,585 thousand as of december 31, 2014
(previous year: eur 12,798 thousand). of this amount, eur 4,378 thousand relates to land in germany
that is not required for operating purposes. this asset will be disposed of since it has no further use.

discontinued operations comprise the risks remaining from the sale of the plant engineering activities,
especially lurgi and lentjes, winding-up the business operations of ruhr-zink, and the continued
process of winding-up past discontinued operations, including individual legal disputes arising from
them. profit after tax from these discontinued operations of eur 1,786 thousand (previous
year: eur 552 thousand) did not have a material impact on consolidated profit. tax income attributable
to these discontinued operations amounted to eur 2,992 thousand. in the previous year, tax income
amounted to eur 3,504 thousand.




                                                        gea group annual report 2014                                                159

                     notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets




      5.             consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets
      5.1            property, plant and equipment
      property, plant and equipment changed as follows:

                                                                              technical   other equipment,
                                                   land and buildings   equipment and        operating and   assets under
      (eur thousand)                                (owner-occupied)         machinery    office equipment   construction        total

      jan. 1, 2013
      cost                                                  655,535           629,922             366,220        119,160     1,770,837
      cumulative depreciation and
      impairment losses                                    –303,134          –440,984            –285,000         –3,240    –1,032,358
      carrying amount                                       352,401           188,938              81,220       115,920       738,479

      changes in 2013
      additions                                               20,636           25,604              32,278         38,221      116,739
      disposals                                                 –496                 –               –908           –397       –1,801
      depreciation                                           –20,718          –38,267             –25,673           –403      –85,061
      impairment losses                                            –                 –                –18              –          –18
      reversal of impairment losses                                –                 –                  –              –             –
      reclassification as held for sale                    –136,926           –93,212             –15,854         –9,470     –255,462
      changes in consolidated group                              260             –102                 162             16          336
      currency translation                                    –7,552            –5,084             –2,109           –447      –15,192
      other changes                                           68,368           20,290               9,470      –105,728        –7,600
      carrying amount at dec. 31, 2013                      275,973            98,167              78,568         37,712      490,420

      jan. 1, 2014
      cost                                                  501,289           385,850             311,854         38,234     1,237,227
      cumulative depreciation and
      impairment losses                                    –225,316          –287,683            –233,286           –522     –746,807
      carrying amount                                       275,973            98,167              78,568         37,712      490,420


      changes in 2014
      additions                                                8,897           13,627              22,634         19,819       64,977
      disposals                                                 –840              –715             –2,388         –1,289       –5,232
      depreciation                                           –13,559          –20,881             –21,681         –1,016      –57,137
      impairment losses                                            –                 –                  –              –             –
      reversal of impairment losses                                –               317                 42              –          359
      reclassification as held for sale                            –                 –                  –              –             –
      changes in consolidated group                            1,821              –104                503              4        2,224
      currency translation                                     6,529             3,169              1,442            216       11,356
      other changes                                            3,587           16,984               2,358        –31,138       –8,209
      carrying amount at dec. 31, 2014                      282,408           110,564              81,478         24,308      498,758

      dec. 31, 2014
      cost                                                  520,733           409,148             328,812         27,339     1,286,032
      cumulative depreciation and
      impairment losses                                    –238,325          –298,584            –247,334         –3,031     –787,274
      carrying amount                                       282,408           110,564              81,478         24,308      498,758



      the other changes are primarily attributable to reclassifications from assets under construction to
      other items of property, plant, and equipment.




160                                                  gea group annual report 2014

              notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets




as in the previous year, items of property, plant, and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis
using the relevant residual values and the following useful lives:

                                                                                                                useful life in
                                                                                                                        years
buildings and parts of buildings                                                                                     2 to 50
technical equipment and machinery, other equipment                                                                   2 to 30
operating and office equipment                                                                                       3 to 40



the underlying residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if
necessary.

property, plant and equipment includes land and buildings, technical equipment and machinery, and
office and operating equipment leased under finance leases:


(eur thousand)                                                                                       2014               2013
cost - capitalized leased assets under finance leases                                              44,032            60,238
cumulative depreciation and impairment losses                                                     –10,259           –17,569
reclassification as held for sale                                                                       –            –7,337
carrying amount                                                                                    33,773            35,332



eur 28,513 thousand (previous year: eur 29,799 thousand) of the carrying amount of the leased items
of property, plant, and equipment relates to buildings. the leases for the buildings extend beyond
2030. the leases do not include extension options, escalation clauses, or the option to acquire the
leased asset.

the corresponding lease liabilities are explained under financial liabilities (see section 6.4).

the carrying amount of property, plant, and equipment that serves as collateral for credit lines
amounted to eur 4,359 thousand as of the reporting date (previous year: eur 4,202 thousand). most
of these assets relate to land and buildings.




                                                        gea group annual report 2014                                             161

                     notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets




      5.2            investment property
      the following table shows the changes in investment property:


      (eur thousand)                                                                         land       buildings          total

      jan. 1, 2013
      cost                                                                                 15,310          7,175          22,485
      cumulative depreciation and impairment losses                                        –6,794         –5,120         –11,914
      carrying amount                                                                       8,516          2,055          10,571

      changes in 2013
      additions                                                                                45              –              45
      disposals                                                                                –2              –              –2
      depreciation                                                                              –           –152            –152
      currency translation                                                                    –37           –198            –235
      reclassification as held for sale                                                       –25           –256            –281
      other changes                                                                           561          2,941           3,502
      carrying amount at dec. 31, 2013                                                      9,058          4,390          13,448

      jan. 1, 2014
      cost                                                                                 15,851          9,704          25,555
      cumulative depreciation and impairment losses                                        –6,793         –5,314         –12,107
      carrying amount                                                                       9,058          4,390          13,448

      changes in 2014
      additions                                                                             1,254              –           1,254
      disposals                                                                               –14              –             –14
      depreciation                                                                              –           –266            –266
      currency translation                                                                     23            115             138
      reclassification as held for sale                                                    –2,077              –          –2,077
      other changes                                                                             –              –               –
      carrying amount at dec. 31, 2014                                                      8,244          4,239          12,483

      dec. 31, 2014
      cost                                                                                 15,037          9,834          24,871
      cumulative depreciation and impairment losses                                        –6,793         –5,595         –12,388
      carrying amount                                                                       8,244          4,239          12,483



      the fair value of investment property is eur 17,141 thousand (previous year: eur 18,922 thousand).
      since these fair values are calculated on the basis of comparable market-based prices that are
      determined internally, they are categorized within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.

      the following amounts are reported in the income statement in connection with investment property:

                                                                                                      01/01/2014 -   01/01/2013 -
      (eur thousand)                                                                                   12/31/2014     12/31/2013
      rental income                                                                                         3,048          3,214
      operating expenses                                                                                    2,325          2,486
       thereof: properties used to generate rental income                                                   2,325          2,486
      total                                                                                                   723            728




162                                                         gea group annual report 2014

              notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets




5.3           goodwill
the following table shows the allocation of goodwill to the segments and changes in goodwill:

                                             gea             gea          gea         gea            gea             gea
                                             food           farm          heat   mechanical       process   refrigeration
(eur thousand)                           solutions   technologies   exchangers   equipment    engineering   technologies        total
carrying amount at dec. 31, 2012          238,495       182,854       525,967      332,191      385,733         180,811     1,846,051
additions                                       –            385          808            –             –             285       1,478
disposals                                       –              –            –            –             –           –138         –138
currency translation                            –         –3,608       –2,352         –301        –2,018         –2,135      –10,414
reclassification as held for sale               –              –     –524,423            –             –               –    –524,423
carrying amount at dec. 31, 2013          238,495       179,631             –      331,890      383,715         178,823     1,312,554
reclassification                         –238,495              –            –      238,495             –               –            –
additions                                       –              –            –            –           815           1,133       1,948
disposals                                       –              –            –            –           358               –         358
currency translation                            –          8,137            –          464         2,699           3,812      15,112
carrying amount at dec. 31, 2014                –       187,768             –      570,849      387,587         183,768     1,329,972



the group’s operating segments were reorganized at the beginning of 2014. the activities of the former
gea food solutions and gea mechanical equipment segments are now reported under the segment
name gea mechanical equipment (see note 9.1). consequently, the goodwill attributable to the gea
food solutions segment was reclassified to the gea mechanical equipment segment.

impairment test
goodwill recoverability was tested at the end of fiscal year 2014. the segments were identified as cash-
generating units for this impairment test. the recoverable amounts for the segments were compared
with their carrying amounts, which included any goodwill allocated to them.

the recoverable amount of a segment is determined by calculating value in use using the discounted
cash flow method. the cash flows used are the after-tax operating cash flows from the consolidated
medium-term planning (three-year period) planned on a bottom-up basis and prepared by the executive
board. the supervisory board approved this planning for 2015 and has taken note of it for 2016
and 2017. assumptions for the period beyond the planning horizon are based on the cash flows in the
previous planning year, extrapolated using a uniform growth rate of 1.5 percent (previous year
1.5 percent). the underlying growth rates do not exceed the average long-term growth rates for the
markets in which the segments operate.

the planning assumes continued stable growth in the food and drink sales markets. this assumption
is based on an expectation of growing demand for processed foods. all of gea group’s segments will
profit from these underlying trends. although less strong in comparison to the food industry, growth
is also assumed for other customer industries. by contrast, declining growth rates have been factored
in for the marine sector. in addition, planned growth for individual segments also takes account of
actual past growth rates.




                                               gea group annual report 2014                                                             163

                      notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets




      with regard to raw material prices, it is assumed that any increase can be offset by increased selling
      prices. measures under the “fit for 2020” project and future acquisitions have not been taken into
      account in the planning.

      the total cost of capital assumed for discounting is based on a risk-free interest rate of 1.75 percent
      (previous year: 2.75 percent) and a market risk premium of 6.75 percent (previous year: 5.75 percent). in
      addition, beta factors derived from the respective peer group, a borrowing risk premium, as well as
      capital structure were taken into account for each segment. segment-specific tax rates were also applied.

      cash flows for the individual segments are discounted using the following after-tax rates:

      discount rate
      (%)                                                                                               12/31/2014      12/31/2013
      gea food solutions                                                                                        –             7.83
      gea farm technologies                                                                                   9.87            9.02
      gea mechanical equipment                                                                                8.68            9.31
      gea process engineering                                                                                 7.59            8.59
      gea refrigeration technologies                                                                          8.25            8.70




164                                                   gea group annual report 2014

               notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets




5.4            other intangible assets
the carrying amount of intangible assets changed as follows:

                                                   market-    customer-     contract-   technology-     internally
                                                    related      related       based          based    generated
                                                 intangible   intangible   intangible     intangible   intangible
(eur thousand)                                       assets       assets       assets         assets        assets      total

jan. 1, 2013
cost                                               87,984      179,277      106,978        170,467        70,418      615,124
cumulative amortization and impairment losses     –19,640      –48,226      –71,528        –75,035      –24,939      –239,368
carrying amount                                    68,344      131,051       35,450         95,432        45,479      375,756

changes in 2013
additions                                               13            –        7,608          7,255       24,649       39,525
disposals                                            –338          –201           –8            325             –       –222
amortization                                         –576      –16,910       –9,140        –13,685        –6,852      –47,163
impairment losses                                  –2,480             –            –              –             –      –2,480
reversal of impairment losses                         336             –            –              –             –        336
reclassification as held for sale                 –14,305        –3,667      –4,232        –16,934        –5,633      –44,771
changes in consolidated group                         232           117          –22            –25             –        302
currency translation                               –1,613        –1,073        –411         –1,283          –136       –4,516
other changes                                           –1            –         626           1,586          862        3,073
carrying amount at dec. 31, 2013                   49,612      109,317       29,871         72,671        58,369      319,840

jan. 1, 2014
cost                                               62,061      166,606       87,536        132,045        85,969     534,217
cumulative amortization and impairment losses     –12,449      –57,289      –57,665        –59,374      –27,600      –214,377
carrying amount                                    49,612      109,317       29,871         72,671        58,369     319,840

changes in 2014
additions                                               18            –        9,342          3,358       23,242       35,960
disposals                                              –11            –        –426             –41             –       –478
amortization                                         –284      –16,135       –6,908        –10,394        –9,211      –42,932
impairment losses                                        –            –            –              –         –445        –445
reversal of impairment losses                         118             –            –            231             –        349
reclassification as held for sale                        –            –            –              –             –           –
changes in consolidated group                       1,404           920            7           602              –       2,933
currency translation                                1,078         1,117         316           1,168          188        3,867
other changes                                            –            –         241            104         6,117        6,462
carrying amount at dec. 31, 2014                   51,935       95,219       32,444         67,699        78,260     325,557

dec. 31, 2014
cost                                               64,679      169,925       97,647        136,849      115,671      584,771
cumulative amortization and impairment losses     –12,744      –74,706      –65,203        –69,150      –37,411      –259,214
carrying amount                                    51,935       95,219       32,444         67,699        78,260     325,557



the additions to internally generated intangible assets are primarily attributable to two segments: in
the gea mechanical equipment segment, the additions relate to a series of enhancements with regard
to the preparation, processing, cutting, and packaging of food. in the gea farm technologies segment,
costs relating to developments in automated milking were capitalized.




                                                gea group annual report 2014                                                    165

                      notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets




      as in the previous year, intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized on a straight-line basis
      using the following useful lives:

                                                                                                                             useful life in
                                                                                                                                     years
      market-related intangible assets                                                                                             3 to 20
      customer-related intangible assets                                                                                           1 to 10
      contract-based intangible assets                                                                                             1 to 18
      technology-based intangible assets                                                                                           1 to 25



      amortization of intangible assets attributable to the complete group in the amount of eur 42,932 thousand
      in fiscal year 2014 (previous year: eur 47,163 thousand) is reported in cost of sales and, where this relates
      to discontinued operations, in profit or loss from discontinued operations.

      market-related intangible assets amounting to eur 48,423 thousand (previous year: eur 46,558 thousand)
      are not amortized because their useful life cannot be determined. these assets are company and product
      names of the acquired companies. these are established brands in their respective sectors and will
      continue to be used indefinitely after the company in question has been acquired.

      the carrying amount of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is broken down as follows:

                                                                            12/31/2014                          12/31/2013
                                                                                         proportion of        carrying       proportion of
                                                                  carrying amount        total carrying   amount (eur        total carrying
      segment                                                      (eur thousand)         amount (%)        thousand)         amount (%)
      gea farm technologies                                                6,111                  12.6          5,961                 12.8
      gea mechanical equipment                                            13,073                  27.0         12,906                 27.7
      gea process engineering                                             14,824                  30.6         13,649                 29.3
      gea refrigeration technologies                                      14,415                  29.8         14,042                 30.2
      total                                                               48,423                100.0          46,558               100.0



      these brands are tested for impairment at least once a year. for this purpose, their internal value in
      use is determined using the relief from royalty method. under this approach, the value of a brand is
      calculated on the basis of the future royalties that gea group would have to pay if it had to license the
      brands from third parties. the brand-related revenue is multiplied by the estimated license fee
      installments. the brand-related revenue is derived from the medium-term planning prepared by the
      executive board. the supervisory board approved this planning for 2015 and has taken note of it for
      2016 and 2017. the assumed license fee installments generally correspond to those of the initial
      measurement. the payments saved calculated in this way are then discounted using a brand-specific
      pre-tax discount rate. valuation is based on the following assumptions:


      (%)                                                                                                     12/31/2014      12/31/2013
      discount rate                                                                                          7.46 - 12.22    9.35 - 19.08
      royalty rate                                                                                            0.50 - 3.00      0.20 - 3.00



      the impairment test performed at the end of the year did not lead to a writedown. the reversals of
      impairment losses amounting to eur 118 thousand relate to the gea refrigeration technologies
      segment.




166                                                   gea group annual report 2014

             notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets




5.5           equity-accounted investments
the relevant figures for equity-accounted investments are based on the most recently available annual
financial statements.

the aggregate of the carrying amounts and the share of the profit of equity-accounted investments are
insignificant in relation to the group’s total assets and profit.

associates
equity-accounted associates are reported at a carrying amount of eur 2,093 thousand as of
december 31, 2014 (previous year: eur 2,108 thousand).

the share of the profit or loss of equity-accounted associates is as follows:

                                                                                              01/01/2014 -   01/01/2013 -
(eur thousand)                                                                                 12/31/2014     12/31/2013
profit/loss from continuing operations                                                              1,644          2,706
other comprehensive income                                                                             –2             17
total profit/loss                                                                                   1,642          2,723



joint ventures
equity-accounted joint ventures are reported at a carrying amount of eur 13,200 thousand as of
december 31, 2014 (previous year: eur 11,582 thousand).

the share of the profit or loss of equity-accounted joint ventures is as follows:

                                                                                              01/01/2014 -   01/01/2013 -
(eur thousand)                                                                                 12/31/2014     12/31/2013
profit/loss from continuing operations                                                              2,640          2,169
other comprehensive income                                                                              –              –
total profit/loss                                                                                   2,640          2,169




5.6           other financial assets
other financial assets are composed of the following items:


(eur thousand)                                                                                 12/31/2014      12/31/2013
investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries and other equity investments                            24,758         27,408
other securities                                                                                    8,517          9,575
derivative financial instruments                                                                      447            465
miscellaneous other financial assets                                                               29,711          4,620
other non-current financial assets                                                                 63,433         42,068
other securities                                                                                   37,036              –
derivative financial instruments                                                                   20,564         10,794
miscellaneous other financial assets                                                              333,025         98,145
other current financial assets                                                                    390,625        108,939
total                                                                                             454,058        151,007



eur 37,036 of the additions to other securities is attributable to the acquisition of a listed, variable
rate bond with an excellent rating.

derivative financial instruments
derivative financial instruments are explained in section 6.8.




                                                        gea group annual report 2014                                        167

                   notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets




      miscellaneous other financial assets
      miscellaneous other financial assets with a carrying amount of eur 362,736 thousand (previous
      year: eur 102,765 thousand) were recognized as of the reporting date. they are broken down into non-
      current and current assets as follows:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                 12/31/2014      12/31/2013
      other receivables from unconsolidated subsidiaries                                                    99             130
      other receivables from equity investments                                                          1,300               –
      receivables from tax authorities                                                                     469             469
      sundry miscellaneous other financial assets                                                       27,843           4,021
      other non-current financial assets                                                                29,711           4,620
      other receivables from unconsolidated subsidiaries                                                 3,887           1,493
      other receivables from equity investments                                                         12,862           4,592
      other receivables from tax authorities                                                            51,823          40,469
      fixed term deposits                                                                              199,961               –
      sundry miscellaneous other financial assets                                                       64,492          51,591
      other current financial assets                                                                   333,025          98,145
      total                                                                                            362,736         102,765



      eur 199,961 thousand of the increase in miscellaneous other current financial assets relates to term
      deposits.

      receivables from tax authorities primarily comprise vat receivables.

      eur 25,000 thousand of the additions to miscellaneous other non-current financial assets is attributable
      to an advance payment for the acquisition of dutch group de klokslag, which was completed after the
      end of the reporting period (see note 11.1).

      miscellaneous other financial assets include prepaid expenses totaling eur 27,559 thousand (previous
      year: eur 24,852 thousand).

      the maturity structure of miscellaneous other financial assets is as follows:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                 12/31/2014      12/31/2013
      carrying amount before impairment losses                                                          94,447          57,823
      impairment losses                                                                                  2,112           2,211
      carrying amount                                                                                   92,335          55,612
       thereof not overdue at the reporting date                                                        91,435          55,502
       thereof past due at reporting date                                                                  900             110
                                                                  less than 30 days                        519              32
                                                                  between 31 and 60 days                    34              12
                                                                  between 61 and 90 days                     –               7
                                                                  between 181 and 360 days                   –               1
                                                                  more than 360 days                       347              58




168                                                        gea group annual report 2014

             notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets




5.7          inventories
inventories are composed of the following items:


(eur thousand)                                                                                 12/31/2014      12/31/2013
raw materials, consumables, and supplies                                                         134,978         113,459
work in progress                                                                                 100,348          89,281
assets for third parties under construction                                                       19,407          13,721
finished goods and merchandise                                                                   279,894         287,857
advance payments                                                                                  27,248          46,737
total                                                                                            561,875         551,055



inventories of eur 2,759 million were recognized as an expense in fiscal year 2014 (previous
year: eur 2,652 million). impairment losses on inventories were eur 12,613 thousand in the reporting
period (previous year: eur 7,924 thousand). impairment losses on inventories in previous years
amounting to eur 2,502 thousand (previous year: eur 2,098 thousand) were reversed due to increased
market prices. the reversals were recognized in cost of sales.

5.8          trade receivables
trade receivables are composed of the following items:


(eur thousand)                                                                                 12/31/2014      12/31/2013
trade receivables                                                                                691,440         663,580
 thereof from third parties                                                                      677,931         645,316
 thereof from unconsolidated subsidiaries                                                         13,509          18,264
gross amount due from customers for contract work                                                254,315         265,576
total                                                                                            945,755         929,156



trade receivables include receivables of eur 1,925 thousand (previous year: eur 4,844 thousand) that
will not be realized until more than one year after the reporting date. bad debt allowances on trade
receivables totaled eur 44,752 thousand (previous year: eur 42,142 thousand).

the average payment period and volume of receivables outstanding are in line with the general market.

the maturity structure of trade receivables – with the exception of receivables from affiliated
companies and equity investments – is as follows:


(eur thousand)                                                                                 12/31/2014      12/31/2013
carrying amount before impairment losses                                                         722,683         687,458
impairment losses                                                                                 44,752          42,142
carrying amount                                                                                  677,931         645,316
 thereof not overdue at the reporting date                                                       496,742         471,796
 thereof past due at reporting date                                                              181,189         173,520
                                                           less than 30 days                      90,234          82,760
                                                           between 31 and 60 days                 29,869          29,421
                                                           between 61 and 90 days                 15,654          11,139
                                                           between 91 and 180 days                20,307          18,971
                                                           between 181 and 360 days               11,898          18,292
                                                           more than 360 days                     13,227          12,937




                                                    gea group annual report 2014                                            169

                    notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets




      construction contracts
      the gross amount due from and to customers for contract work is composed of the following items:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                  12/31/2014      12/31/2013
      capitalized production cost of construction contracts                                            2,260,885       1,949,863
       plus net gain from construction contracts                                                        441,593         381,482
       less anticipated losses                                                                             6,310          4,253
       less progress billings                                                                          2,696,781       2,354,477
      total                                                                                                –613         –27,385
      gross amount due from customers for contract work
      (included in trade receivables)                                                                   254,315         265,576
      gross amount due to customers for contract work
      (included in other liabilities)                                                                  –254,928        –292,961
      total                                                                                                –613         –27,385



      advance payments received on construction contracts amounted to eur 28,513 thousand at
      december 31, 2014 (previous year: eur 29,489 thousand). customer retention money amounted to
      eur 8,768 thousand (previous year: eur 12,946 thousand). revenue of eur 2,207,366 thousand (previous
      year: eur 2,103,347 thousand) was generated from construction contracts in the reporting period.

      5.9           income tax receivables
      income tax receivables amounted to eur 17,531 thousand at the reporting date (previous
      year: eur 8,332 thousand). as in the previous year, the full amount is due within one year.

      5.10 cash and cash equivalents
      cash and cash equivalents were composed of the following items at the reporting date:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                  12/31/2014      12/31/2013
      unrestricted cash                                                                                1,194,437        682,084
      restricted cash                                                                                      1,421          1,436
      total                                                                                            1,195,858        683,520



      cash and cash equivalents comprise cash funds and overnight deposits. restricted cash mainly consists
      of bank deposits.
      during the year, the standard market interest rate for short-term bank deposits in the eurozone lay
      between 0.0 and 0.5 percent (previous year: between 0.0 and 0.5 percent). the average interest rate as
      of the end of the year is 0.3 percent (previous year: 0.3 percent).




170                                                           gea group annual report 2014

     notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




6.           consolidated balance sheet disclosures:
             equity and liabilities
6.1          equity
subscribed capital
the subscribed capital of gea group aktiengesellschaft was unchanged compared with the previous
year at eur 520,376 thousand as of december 31, 2014. as in the previous year, the shares are composed
of 192,495,476 no-par value bearer shares. all the shares are fully paid up.

as in the previous year, the shares have a notional value of eur 2.70 each (rounded).

all shares convey the same rights. shareholders are entitled to receive dividends as declared and are
entitled to one vote per share at the annual general meeting.

authorized capital

                                                     annual general meeting
(eur thousand)                                                    resolution           expiring on   amount (eur thousand)
authorized capital i                                          april 24, 2012        april 23, 2017                 77,000
authorized capital ii                                         april 21, 2010        april 20, 2015                 72,000
total                                                                                                             149,000



under authorized capital i, the executive board is authorized, with the approval of the supervisory
board, to increase the share capital by issuing new no-par value shares against cash contributions on
one or more occasions and, in accordance with article 5(4) of the articles of association, to define a
starting date for profit rights in this case that differs from the date stipulated by law. the executive
board is also entitled, with the approval of the supervisory board, to exclude fractions from
shareholders’ preemptive rights. furthermore, the executive board is authorized, with the approval of
the supervisory board, to stipulate the further details of the capital increase from authorized capital i
and the terms and conditions of the share issue. the new shares may also be underwritten by banks
with the obligation of offering them to the shareholders for subscription.

under authorized capital ii, the executive board is authorized, with the approval of the supervisory
board, to increase the share capital by issuing new no-par value shares against cash or noncash
contributions on one or more occasions and, in accordance with article 5(4) of the articles of
association, to define a starting date for profit rights in this case that differs from the date stipulated
by law. the executive board is also entitled, with the approval of the supervisory board, to exclude
fractions from shareholders’ preemptive rights. furthermore, the executive board is authorized, with
the approval of the supervisory board, to disapply shareholders’ preemptive rights in a partial amount
of eur 50,000 thousand in the case of capital increases against noncash contributions for the purpose
of business combinations or the acquisition of companies, parts of companies, or equity interests in
companies. additionally, the executive board is authorized, with the approval of the supervisory
board, to stipulate the further details of the capital increases from authorized capital ii and the terms
and conditions of the share issue. the new shares may also be underwritten by banks with the
obligation of offering them to the shareholders for subscription.




                                            gea group annual report 2014                                                     171

          notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      contingent capital


      (eur thousand)                                                                                         12/31/2014   12/31/2013
      compensation to external shareholders of gea ag in line with the settlement dated january 30, 2012,
      resolved by the annual general meeting on april 24, 2012                                                       –       17,339
      bonds with warrants and convertible bonds according annual general meeting resolution april 21, 2010      48,660       48,660
      total                                                                                                     48,660       65,999



      under a resolution adopted by the annual general meeting on april 21, 2010, the share capital was
      contingently increased by up to eur 48,660 thousand, comprising up to 18,000,000 bearer shares. the
      contingent capital increase will only be implemented to the extent that the holders or creditors of
      options or conversion rights or persons obliged to convert or exercise options under bonds with
      warrants or convertible bonds issued against cash contributions that are guaranteed by the company
      or a subordinate group company of the company up to april 20, 2015, on the basis of the authorization
      of the executive board by the annual general meeting resolution dated april 21, 2010, exercise their
      options or conversion rights or, if they are obliged to convert or exercise options, satisfy their obligation
      to convert or exercise options, or if gea group aktiengesellschaft exercises its option to grant shares
      of gea group aktiengesellschaft in full or in part instead of payment of the monetary amount due,
      and if no cash settlement is granted or own shares or shares of another listed company are used in
      settlement. new shares will be issued at the option or conversion price to be determined in each case
      in accordance with the authorizing resolution referred to above. the new shares bear dividend rights
      from the beginning of the fiscal year in which they are created. the executive board is authorized, with
      the approval of the supervisory board, to determine the further details of the implementation of the
      contingent capital increase.

      in addition, under article 4(6) of the articles of association (former version), the share capital was
      contingently increased by up to eur 17,339,095.52, comprising up to 6,414,014 bearer shares on
      december 31, 2013. the contingent capital increase served to grant compensation in shares of the
      company to the external shareholders of the former gea ag, bochum, in line with the settlement
      dated january 30, 2012, between the company on the one hand, and on the other hand the applicants
      as well as the joint representatives of the award proceedings pending before the dortmund local court
      with the case reference number 20 o 533/99, which will bring the award proceedings related to the
      control and profit transfer agreement dating from june 29, 1999, between the former metallgesellschaft
      ag (now gea group aktiengesellschaft) and the former gea ag to a close and increase the previous
      exchange ratio. the issue of the last tranche of shares on december 3, 2012, in line with the settlement
      completed the implementation of the capital increase. on december 3, 2014, the supervisory board
      resolved to cancel this contingent capital.

      as in the previous year, no bonds with warrants or convertible bonds were issued in fiscal year 2014.

      capital reserves
      capital reserves primarily reflect the effects from the business combination of the former
      metallgesellschaft aktiengesellschaft and the former gea ag as well as premiums from issuing shares
      of the former metallgesellschaft ag.




172                                                          gea group annual report 2014

   notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




capital reserves declined by eur 212 thousand compared with the previous year and amounted to
eur 1,217,861 thousand (previous year: eur 1,218,073 thousand). this figure includes an increase of
eur 21 thousand (previous year: decline of eur 21 thousand) from the offsetting of income from an
employee share-based payment plan in south africa attributable to the gea hx segment, which was
sold on october 31, 2014. under the major “medupi” order received at the end of 2007, gea group
undertook to meet certain assessment criteria defined by the broad based black economic
empowerment act of 2003. to do this, gea group launched a share-based payment plan for staff at its
south african company, among other things. the shares granted to these employees are held indirectly
via a trustee, which in turn issues options on these shares to the employees. the options vest after a
five-year holding period. twenty percent of the options will be exercised each year after the holding
period expires. the exercise price corresponds to the fair value of the shares at the grant date. the
options lapse if employees leave the company before the five-year period expires.

the weighted average fair value of the options issued amounted to eur 36.69 at the grant date of
may 6, 2009. the fair value of the options was determined using a monte carlo simulation. expenses
of eur 21 thousand (previous year: income of eur 21 thousand) were recognized to reflect expected
staff turnover in fiscal year 2014.

retained earnings and net retained profits
the changes in retained earnings and net retained profits are reported in the statement of changes in
equity. actuarial gains and losses on the measurement of non-current employee benefit obligations are
included in retained earnings.

the distribution of profits is based on the annual financial statements of gea group aktiengesellschaft
prepared in accordance with the hgb.

accumulated other comprehensive income
changes in equity outside profit or loss are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income if
they do not relate to capital transactions with shareholders. other comprehensive income comprises
the gains or losses on financial assets measured at fair value and recognized directly in equity, the
effective portion of the change in fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, and exchange
rate gains or losses from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.

noncontrolling interests
noncontrolling interests in gea group companies amounted to eur 560 thousand (previous
year: eur 2,667 thousand).

the change in accumulated other comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests totaled
eur 64 thousand (previous year: eur 167 thousand). this amount resulted primarily from currency
translation on foreign currency translation, which contributed eur 62 thousand in fiscal year 2014
(previous year: eur 167 thousand) to the change in accumulated other comprehensive income.




                                          gea group annual report 2014                                               173

           notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      6.2           provisions
      the following table shows the composition of and changes in provisions in 2014:

                                                                financial                              environmental
                                                guarantees,   guarantee     litigation    follow-up       protection,       other
      (eur thousand)                             warranties    contracts          risks        costs          mining    provisions     total
      balance at jan. 1, 2014                       71,739       24,700       22,614        25,324           76,289       73,762     294,428
       thereof non-current                          10,217       10,283        8,424          4,931          66,495       23,427     123,777
       thereof current                              61,522       14,417       14,190        20,393             9,794      50,335     170,651
      additions                                     39,188             –       4,300        15,426             8,956      54,145     122,015
      utilization                                  –25,858       –1,777       –6,711       –14,090          –18,210      –27,499     –94,145
      reversal                                     –16,177       –6,905         –255        –4,471          –10,479      –11,234     –49,521
      changes in consolidated group                     44             –             –           36                –           20       100
      unwinding of discount                              –             5          372            15            2,498        1,242      4,132
      currency translation                           1,959             –          144           285               11        1,012      3,411
      balance at dec. 31, 2014                      70,895       16,023       20,464        22,525           59,065       91,448     280,420
       thereof non-current                          10,134       10,190        8,344          5,917          58,919       38,088     131,592
       thereof current                              60,761        5,833       12,120        16,608               146      53,360     148,828


      provisions for guarantees and warranties
      provisions for guarantees and warranties relate to warranty commitments for products and equipment.
      as is customary in the industry, the guarantees and warranties on which they are based are granted in
      connection with certain performance criteria relating to products or equipment (e.g., guaranteed
      output volume, quality of product manufactured). warranties usually have a contractual term of
      between one and two years from the date on which the products or equipment are accepted. in addition
      to warranties explicitly agreed under contract, product liability rules apply in many sales countries
      and may also stipulate that the manufacturer is liable beyond the contractually defined term of the
      warranty. in some cases, recourse claims exist in the form of insurance refunds or subcontractor
      guarantees. the level of provisions is based on management’s best estimate. as of december 31, 2014,
      refund claims amounting to eur 413 thousand (previous year: eur 433 thousand) against nongroup
      third parties were recognized. gea group expects to settle most of the provisions for guarantees and
      warranties in the coming year.

      provisions for financial guarantee contracts
      provisions for financial guarantee contracts comprise obligations under indemnification agreements
      as well as warranties and undertakings relating to the sale of business activities. the changes in these
      provisions in fiscal year 2014 are primarily due to the resolution of uncertainties relating to risks from
      the sale of the plant engineering activities. an outflow of approximately 36 percent of the provisions
      for financial guarantee contracts is expected in fiscal year 2015.

      litigation risks
      provisions are recognized for risks arising from expected or pending litigation against gea group
      companies if it is believed that there is likely to be an unfavorable outcome to the proceedings.
      assessments by counsel for the company or legal experts were used to determine the likelihood of




174                                               gea group annual report 2014

    notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




such litigation. the probable damages or sanctions have been recognized as a liability. the timing of
cash outflows relating to provisions for litigation risks often cannot be reliably determined.

follow-up costs
this item comprises the cost of residual work that is incurred after a contract has already been invoiced
and the profit from the contract has been recognized. the amount of the expected cost is stated.
payments are made almost in their entirety in the following year.

environmental protection, mining
this item mainly comprises provisions for the clean-up of pit water from past mining activities and for
the clean-up of other instances of groundwater contamination. the law is still unclear as to the amount
and duration of the company’s obligation to clean up pit and ground water. risks related to the
removal of contamination caused by ruhr-zink were transferred to a municipal development company
in fiscal 2014 on payment of a rehabilitation support payment. the level of provisions is based on the
best estimate. around one-quarter of the expected cash outflows are anticipated to be within the next
ten years. the obligations are expected to extend to well beyond 2030.

other provisions
other provisions comprise provisions for a range of individual items. around 58 percent of other
provisions are expected to be settled in fiscal year 2015.

6.3           employee benefit obligations
employee benefit obligations are composed of the following items:


(eur thousand)                                                                                 12/31/2014    12/31/2013
obligations under pension plans and supplementary healthcare benefits                            760,645       639,757
 thereof defined benefit pension plans                                                           741,350       621,112
 thereof obligations under supplementary healthcare benefits                                      16,419        16,043
 thereof defined contribution pension plans                                                        2,876         2,602
other employee benefit obligations                                                                 3,569         3,339
partial retirement                                                                                 8,163        10,910
jubilee benefits                                                                                   8,705         7,748
other non-current obligations to employees                                                        12,483        10,957
non-current employee benefit obligations                                                         793,565       672,711
redundancy plan and severance payments                                                             8,926         3,584
outstanding vacation, flexitime/overtime credits                                                  57,307        55,764
bonuses                                                                                           84,388        75,488
other current obligations to employees                                                            20,016        17,808
current employee benefit obligations                                                             170,637       152,644
total employee benefit obligations                                                               964,202       825,355




                                                        gea group annual report 2014                                      175

         notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      6.3.1    obligations under defined benefit pension plans and supplementary 		
               healthcare benefits
      wherever possible, defined benefit pension obligations and obligations under supplementary
      healthcare benefits are disclosed below in the aggregate and explained together.

      furthermore, the amounts are presented including assets held for sale and liabilities held for sale. in
      the previous year, where a reconciliation to line items in the financial statements is required, this is
      presented in a separate line as “reclassified as held for sale.”

      all obligations were actuarially valued as of december 31, 2014, and as of december 31, 2013.

      defined benefit pension plans
      gea group employees are offered various benefit options, mainly in the form of defined benefit and
      defined contribution pension plans.

      defined benefit pension plan obligations exist in germany and, outside of germany, mainly in the
      u.s.a., switzerland, and the united kingdom. in addition, other foreign companies have typical
      country-specific pension plans that are funded in part by plan assets. benefits and investments
      correspond to the country-specific economic environment and requirements.
      gea group views granting pension benefits as an opportunity to foster employee loyalty and
      engagement. it is therefore a standard feature of the remuneration concept and has an employee
      contribution component, where this is appropriate. in connection with this, gea group monitors
      developments on the human resources market and regularly checks that the benefits it grants are
      appropriate and in line with the market.

      gea group does not believe that the pension obligations pose any risks over and above the customary
      extent and the general risks described.

      pension benefits in germany
      in germany, gea group grants old-age, disability, and survivors’ benefits to many of its employees.
      new employees are generally only granted benefits that are partly funded by employee contributions.

      as part of the general benefits provided, all employees have the opportunity to voluntarily defer part
      of their compensation. under this arrangement, an agreed amount of their salary plus an employer
      contribution of up to 100 percent of the deferred amount is converted into a pension benefit.
      a corresponding collective bargaining agreement was entered into in 2002 and revised in 2008.

      managers receive benefits comprising an income-related employer-funded basic amount, an employer-
      funded top-up, and a matching amount funded through deferred compensation with an employer
      contribution of up to one-third of the deferred amount. the additional contributions from the top-up
      and matching amounts are determined annually and converted into a pension benefit by the employer.
      these commitments are granted in the form of identical individual commitments.




176                                             gea group annual report 2014

   notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




for both commitments, the post-retirement benefits are adjusted by 1 percent each year.

in addition to the currently open benefit plans, there are a number of historical pension plans in the
company. these plans are generally closed to new employees, but are maintained unchanged for employees
who were members at the time the plan was closed. these include obligations under “bochumer verband”
and “essener verband” as well as obligations established independently by their predecessors.

the pension obligations are partly funded by pension liability insurances.

pension benefits outside germany
pension benefits outside germany mainly exist in the u.s.a., the united kingdom, and switzerland.

in the u.s.a., there are pension obligations from various pension plans that were closed in succession
up to december 31, 2000. no further benefits are earned from a defined benefit pension plan for periods
of service after the respective closure date. old-age and survivors’ benefits accrued at the closure date
of the respective plan were fixed on the basis of pensionable income at the closure date. benefits may
be paid out in the form of annuities or lump-sum payments. existing pension obligations are partly
funded by plan assets. the assets are held separately from the company in an external trust. the
companies have appointed independent trustees in accordance with statutory provisions to manage
the funding of obligations and the investment of assets according to the company’s specifications. any
funding deficit is established annually in accordance with legal requirements and spread over a fixed
time period if required. the statutory basis for minimum funding was last amended in 2012 by the
moving ahead for progress in the 21st century act (map-21).

in the united kingdom, there are pension obligations from two uk pension plans, one of which has
been closed for a number of years and applies exclusively to former employees. the second plan is
closed to new employees, but continues to provide old-age and survivors’ benefits to the currently
active participants based on pensionable income in the year before the employment relationship ends;
these benefits are funded by salary-dependent employee contributions to plan assets. the accrued
entitlements and current benefits in the united kingdom are adjusted in accordance with statutory
requirements on the basis of inflation. pension obligations from both plans are partly funded by plan
assets. the companies appointed independent trustees in accordance with statutory provisions to
manage the funding of obligations and the investment of assets according to the company’s
specifications. company pension plans are valued every three years in accordance with legal
requirements, and any deficit is established. if the plan is underfunded, the trustee prepares a funding
plan to regulate the funding of the deficit, taking account of the actuary’s recommendation and the
type and circumstances of the respective plan.

in switzerland, there are pension obligations from the second pillar of the swiss pension system, the
compulsory occupational pension plan. implementation is by means of foundations that are
independent from the companies; employers and employees pay income-dependent contributions to
the foundations. interest is applied, in accordance with legal provisions, to the individual amounts
saved, and on retirement the total is converted into an old-age, invalidity, and survivor’s pension based
on predetermined annuity tables. investment and management of the assets is guided by the statutory
provisions on occupational pension plans. due to significant legal requirements concerning the design




                                          gea group annual report 2014                                               177

           notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      of pension plans, companies only have a small number of options available to them for varying the
      design (e.g., level of employee contribution, level of contributions according to age band). a board of
      trustees, comprising employer and employee representatives, decides on the distribution of surpluses,
      or on changes to the design of the plan within the legal framework. the plans come under the
      bundesgesetz über die berufliche vorsorge (bvg – swiss federal law on occupational benefits), which
      regulates the minimum benefits to be provided by companies by defining the minimum contributions
      required and the returns on them. the gea group companies that are affected by this have insured
      their employees with the axa winterthur group foundation. all employers may have to contribute
      “stabilization payments” if there is insufficient cover for the obligations. no “stabilization plan” is
      required at present as the cover is currently sufficient.

      supplementary healthcare benefits
      in addition to occupational pension benefits, certain retired employees are granted health insurance
      subsidies. new entitlements to health insurance subsidies are no longer granted. there are now only a
      few employees with such benefits in active employment. existing obligations are not funded by plan
      assets. gea group does not see these benefits posing a particular risk due to the low level of the
      obligations.

      obligations under supplementary healthcare benefits relate solely to germany.

      provisions and funded status
      the changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation, the plan assets, and the provisions
      were as follows:

                                                                                          12/31/2014                12/31/2013
      (eur thousand)                                                                   germany other countries   germany other countries
      present value of defined benefit obligation at beginning of fiscal year          635,469         150,954   632,091         155,017
      current service cost                                                              11,508           2,890    10,629           3,203
      interest cost from discounting unwinding on obligations                           20,059           5,279    20,008           4,987
      employee contributions                                                                   –          866          –            787
      remeasurement of present value of obligation                                     114,688          22,777     6,047            –55
       actuarial gains (losses) from changes in demographic assumptions                        –         4,615         –            543
       actuarial gains (losses) resulting from changes in financial assumptions        113,133          17,277      –383          –2,583
       actuarial gains (losses) resulting from experience adjustments                    1,555            885      6,430           1,985
      past service cost                                                                        –        –1,863         –            –63
      payments without settlements                                                     –32,241          –6,007   –33,617          –8,628
      transfer of assets                                                                       –             –       311            694
      changes in consolidated group due to acquisitions                                –24,540          –3,209         –           –377
      currency translation                                                                     –         9,946         –          –4,611
      present value of defined benefit obligation at end of fiscal year                724,943         181,633   635,469         150,954
      fair value of plan assets at beginning of the fiscal year                         17,956         109,746    17,869         106,405
      interest income on plan assets                                                       568           4,011       581           3,479
      employer contributions                                                             2,341           5,558       421           5,347
      employee contributions                                                                   –          866          –            787
      remeasurement: return from plan assets in excess interest income                     562           7,468        34           4,230
      gains and losses on settlements                                                          –          –19          –               –
      payments without settlements                                                        –962          –5,081      –949          –7,506
      transfer of assets                                                                       –             –         –            509
      changes in consolidated group due to acquisitions                                   –243          –1,109         –               –
      currency translation                                                                     –         7,145         –          –3,505
      fair value of plan assets at the end of fiscal year                               20,222         128,585    17,956         109,746
      funded status/ net carrying amount                                               704,721          53,048   617,513          41,208
      reclassification as held for sale                                                        –             –   –19,466          –2,100
      net carrying amount                                                              704,721          53,048   598,047          39,108




178                                                             gea group annual report 2014

     notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




the changes in the consolidated group due to acquisitions and disposals in fiscal year 2014 are
attributable solely to the sale of the gea heat exchangers segment.

the net carrying amount of obligations under defined benefit pension plans and supplementary
healthcare benefits changed as follows in fiscal years 2014 and 2013:

                                                                                   12/31/2014                12/31/2013
(eur thousand)                                                                  germany other countries   germany other countries
net carrying amount at beginning of fiscal year                                  617,513        41,208    614,222         48,612
changes through profit or loss                                                    30,999          2,314    30,056           4,648
 current service cost                                                             11,508          2,890    10,629           3,203
 past service cost                                                                       –       –1,863         –            –63
gains and losses on settlements                                                          –          19          –               –
net interest on net defined benefit liability                                     19,491          1,268    19,427           1,508
changes through oci                                                              114,126         15,288     6,013          –4,285
 return from plan assets in excess interest income                                 –562          –7,468       –34          –4,230
 actuarial gains (losses) from changes in demographic assumptions                        –        4,592         –            543
 actuarial gains (losses) resulting from changes in financial assumptions        113,133         17,278      –383          –2,583
 actuarial gains (losses) resulting from experience adjustments                    1,555           886      6,430           1,985
cash-effective changes                                                           –33,620         –6,484   –33,089          –6,469
 employer contributions                                                           –2,341         –5,558      –421          –5,347
employee contributions                                                                   –            –         –               –
 payments without settlements                                                    –31,279          –926    –32,668          –1,122
other changes                                                                    –24,297           722        311          –1,298
 transfer of assets                                                                      –            –       311            185
 changes in consolidated group due to acquisitions                               –24,297         –2,100         –           –377
 currency translation                                                                    –        2,822         –          –1,106
funded status/ net carrying amount                                               704,721         53,048   617,513          41,208
reclassification as held for sale                                                        –            –   –19,466          –2,100
net carrying amount                                                              704,721         53,048   598,047          39,108



the changes in the consolidated group due to acquisitions and disposals in fiscal year 2014 are
attributable solely to the sale of the gea heat exchangers segment.

the following overview shows the net carrying amount broken down into plans with and without plan
assets:

                                                                                   12/31/2014                12/31/2013
(eur thousand)                                                                  germany other countries   germany other countries
present value of funded obligations                                              174,299        168,603   139,255         138,934
fair value of plan assets                                                         20,222        128,585    17,956         109,746
funded status/ net carrying amount of funded obligations                         154,077        40,018    121,299         29,188
present value of unfunded obligations                                            550,644         13,030   496,214          12,020
funded status/ net carrying amount of unfunded obligations                       550,644        13,030    496,214         12,020
funded status/ net carrying amount                                               704,721        53,048    617,513         41,208
reclassification as held for sale                                                        –            –   –19,466          –2,100
net carrying amount                                                              704,721        53,048    598,047         39,108



as in the previous year, no asset ceiling in accordance with ias 19.64 (b) applies. in addition, there are
no reimbursement claims within the meaning of ias 19.116.




                                                          gea group annual report 2014                                              179

          notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      the following overview shows the present value of the defined benefit obligation broken down into
      active employees, former employees with terminated vested benefits, and benefit recipients:

                                                                              12/31/2014                  12/31/2013
      (eur thousand)                                                       germany other countries     germany other countries
      active employees                                                      229,306         80,599     180,214          70,392
      vested terminated employees                                            93,535         41,692      77,086          34,202
      pensioners                                                            402,102         59,342     378,169          46,360
      total                                                                 724,943        181,633     635,469         150,954


      plan assets
      the plan assets used to cover the pension obligations were as follows at the respective reporting dates:

                                                                              12/31/2014                  12/31/2013
      (percent)                                                            germany other countries     germany other countries
      quoted prices in active marktes                                           4.4           74.9          5.2           74.8
       equity instruments                                                       1.2           27.8          1.9           27.6
       debt instruments                                                         3.2           36.7          3.2           36.7
       real estate                                                              0.0            0.0          0.0             0.0
       insurance                                                                0.0            0.0          0.0             0.0
       other                                                                    0.0           10.4          0.1           10.5
      no quoted prices in active marktes                                       95.6           25.1        94.8            25.2
       equity instruments                                                       0.0            0.7          0.0             0.7
       debt instruments                                                         0.0            0.4          0.0             0.4
       real estate                                                              0.0            1.7          0.0             1.8
       insurance                                                               95.4           21.5        94.6            20.9
       other                                                                    0.2            0.8          0.2             1.4
      total                                                                   100.0          100.0       100.0           100.0



      particularly in germany, gea group has decided to utilize the internal financing effect of the pension
      provisions and supplementary healthcare benefits and only to fund a relatively small proportion of the
      pension obligations using plan assets.

      in the u.s.a., the united kingdom, and switzerland, a large proportion of the pension obligations is
      funded by plan assets in accordance with the legal framework. the above table shows how the plan
      assets have been invested. a proportion of both the german and foreign plan assets is managed by
      insurance companies in accordance with their specific investment guidelines. in germany, this is the
      predominant form of investment for plan assets. part of the plan assets of german pension plans is
      also managed by pension funds and an endowment fund, and is mainly invested in fixed-income
      securities and term deposits, with only a relatively small proportion invested in equities. the objective
      of these external investments is to ensure secure returns and preserve the value of the underlying
      assets in order to fund current and future pension benefits. there are currently no plans to change this
      investment strategy.

      assets invested in the capital markets are exposed to general capital market and investment risk. gea
      group is constantly monitoring market developments and has developed corresponding investment
      policies that adequately balance risk and income expectations, while taking the respective statutory
      and regulatory frameworks into account.




180                                              gea group annual report 2014

     notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




in fiscal year 2015, eur 2,331 thousand is expected to be added to the plan assets of german pension
plans and eur 6,000 thousand to plans outside germany.

the actual return on plan assets in 2014 was eur 12,609 thousand (previous year: eur 8,324 thousand).

actuarial assumptions
as of the relevant reporting date, the following weighted actuarial assumptions were used to calculate
the present value of the defined benefit obligations. these assumptions are used to calculate net
pension expenses in the following year.

                                                                                 12/31/2014                12/31/2013
(percent)                                                                     germany other countries   germany other countries
discount factor                                                                   2.00           3.67      3.25            3.52
inflation                                                                         1.80           1.58      2.00            1.42
 derived: wage and salary growth rate                                             2.80           1.11      3.00            1.58
 derived: pension growth rate                                                     1.50           0.48      1.66            0.43
 derived: growth rate in cost of health care benefits                             3.55              -      3.75               -



the actuarial measurement factors for german plans are established by gea group in consultation
with actuarial experts. the corresponding assumptions for plans outside germany are determined
taking into account country-specific conditions with the help of local experts in consultation with the
global experts and gea group. the discount rate is established using a recognized method based on
the return on high quality corporate bonds determined as of the reporting date, taking into account the
currency and maturities of the underlying liabilities. for countries that do not have a liquid market in
corporate bonds that are suitable for setting the discount rate, interest rates on government bonds are
referred to instead to define the rate.

all other assumptions correspond to the long-term expectations of gea group. the nominal rate of
wage and salary increases is calculated based on expected inflation and a real rate of increase. the rate
of pension increases in germany is also determined based on inflation, provided that the pension
adjustments are determined in accordance with the rise in the cost of living. in addition, the financial
position of the relevant company is also taken into account. if a firm pension adjustment commitment
has been made, this is taken into account accordingly. outside of germany, the pension adjustment is
also generally determined on the basis of inflation. the growth rate assumed for the costs of
supplementary healthcare benefits in germany equates to forecast inflation plus a growth rate based
on historical data. based on this data, the growth rate is not expected to change in the future.

as in the previous year, klaus heubeck’s 2005g mortality tables were used as a basis for measuring all
german plans as of december 31, 2014. on this basis, the life expectancy of a 65-year-old pensioner as of
the reporting date is 21.62 years for men and 24.01 years for women (previous year: 18.89 years/22.97 years).
country-specific measurement bases were used for pension liabilities outside germany.




                                                        gea group annual report 2014                                              181

           notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      the sensitivities presented below apply to the discount rate and inflation, which have been identified
      as actuarial assumptions that have a significant influence on gea group’s benefit obligations. since
      the wage and salary increase rate, the pension increase rate, and the growth rate in the cost of
      supplementary health benefits are derived from inflation, sensitivity to inflation was used to measure
      the sensitivity of these assumptions together. the same calculation methods were used for sensitivities
      as for the recognized provisions. the ranges used to compute the sensitivities of the assumptions are
      based on the changes that are deemed possible until the next reporting date, given historical experience.
      the meaningfulness of historical experience for forecasts of future outcomes and neglecting to update
      a number of assumptions simultaneously may represent limitations of these methods.

      (eur thousand)                                                                                           2014
      increase (+)/ decrease (-) of dbo                                                                   germany other countries
      increase of discount factor by 50 basis points                                                      –51,905          –7,974
      decrease of inflation by 25 basis points                                                            –15,582           –782



      the sensitivity effect from an age reduction of one year is on average around 4 percent of the present
      value of the obligation.

      future cash flows
      the following benefit payments are expected to be made under the german and foreign plans in the
      coming years:

                                                                                                                           2020 -
      (eur thousand)                                        2015       2016          2017          2018       2019          2024
      german plans                                        32,580      32,139       31,861        31,715     31,612        156,698
      foreign plans                                        8,384       7,195        7,611         7,573      8,243         43,770



      the average weighted duration of pension obligations and supplementary healthcare benefits is:

                                                                                  12/31/2014                 12/31/2013
      (years)                                                                  germany other countries    germany other countries
      duration                                                                    15.2            13.5       14.3            13.1




      6.3.3           defined contribution pension plans
      various companies – especially in the u.s.a. and scandinavia – operate defined contribution pension
      plans. under these plans, the obligation does not lie with gea group, but with the respective pension
      funds. contributions from continuing operations totaling eur 17,008 thousand were paid in fiscal
      year 2014 (previous year: eur 17,347 thousand). contributions from continuing operations of
      eur 43,188 thousand were paid to state pension insurance systems (previous year: eur 41,721 thousand).
      these contributions are recognized as personnel expenses at the same time as the relevant service is
      rendered.




182                                                    gea group annual report 2014

   notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




two multi-employer pension plans operated by several employers in the netherlands were recognized
as defined contribution pension plans because the respective managers of the plans do not provide
sufficient information to the participating companies on the amount of the obligation and of the plan
assets for them to be recognized as defined benefit pension plans.

in the first plan, neither a surplus nor a deficit would have any effect on the level of future contributions.
contributions amounting to eur 2,494 thousand (previous year: eur 2,255 thousand) were made to
this multi-employer pension plan in fiscal year 2014. it is expected that contributions for fiscal year
2015 will be at a similar level.

the second multi-employer pension plan has around 1.2 million beneficiaries, of whom around 600
belong to gea group. the asset/liability ratio of this plan must amount to at least 105 percent. neither
a surplus nor a deficit in the plan would result in additional payments from or into the plan for the
participating companies. however, if the minimum funding level is not met, future contributions to be
paid by the participating companies may be increased. contributions amounting to eur 3,783 thousand
(previous year: eur 3,091 thousand) were made to the multi-employer pension plan in fiscal year 2014.
it is expected that contributions for fiscal year 2015 will be at a similar level.

6.3.4    share-based payment
share-based payments in fiscal year 2014 for the group as a whole totaled eur 1,370 thousand (previous
year: eur 8,240 thousand). of this amount, income of eur 274 thousand (previous year: expense of
eur 729 thousand) was attributable to the sold gea hx segment for cash-settled share-based payment
transactions and an expense of eur 21 thousand (previous year income of eur 21 thousand) for
equity-settled share-based payment transactions (see section 6.1). the carrying amount of liabilities
arising from share-based payment transactions in the complete group amounted to eur 10,493 thousand
as of december 31, 2014 (previous year: eur 12,408 thousand). in the previous year, eur 758 thousand
of this amount was attributable to the gea hx disposal group.

performance share plan
effective july 1, 2006, gea group aktiengesellschaft launched a long-term remuneration program
entitled “gea performance share plan”, a cash-settled share-based payment plan for all first- and
second-level managers below the executive board. third-level managers were also eligible to participate
starting with the third tranche of the program as of july 1, 2008. the ninth tranche was issued on
july 1, 2014. the goal of the gea performance share plan is to link managers’ remuneration with the
long-term success of the company and to align their interests with those of the shareholders.

under the plan, participants are granted a defined number of performance shares at the beginning of
the performance period. the number of performance shares allotted is determined by the participants’
management level. to participate in the plan, managers must invest 20 percent of the amount of the
allotted performance shares in shares of gea group aktiengesellschaft. the personal investment
must then be held for three years (performance period).

the performance of gea group aktiengesellschaft’s shares relative to the companies included in a
benchmark index over the three-year performance period is measured on the basis of their total
shareholder return (tsr). the mdax was used as the benchmark for the tranches issued in the years




                                          gea group annual report 2014                                               183

          notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      up to and including 2013. the benchmark for the 2014 tranche is the stoxx® europe tmi industrial
      engineering (tmi ie). this change in the benchmark index has harmonized the plan with the share-
      based payments for executive board members. tsr is a suitable indicator for investors to compare the
      performance and appeal of different companies. it measures the total percentage return that an
      investor earns from a share over a certain period. in addition to share price performance, dividends
      and adjustments such as share splits are included in the calculation of tsr. this method of comparison
      eliminates share price performance that is due to general market volatility and enables the effects of
      different profit retention strategies to be compared. the relative performance of gea group
      aktiengesellschaft’s shares determines the number of performance shares finally paid out (between
      0 percent and 300 percent).

      the performance shares are paid out once the three-year performance period has expired. at that time,
      performance of gea group aktiengesellschaft’s shares relative to the benchmark determines how
      many performance shares are paid out: if the performance of the company’s shares equals the median
      in the tsr comparison, 50 percent of the performance shares are issued; if it reaches the third quartile,
      100 percent of the performance shares are paid out. if gea group aktiengesellschaft’s shares
      outperform the benchmark index companies, 300 percent of the performance shares are issued. other
      performance figures are interpolated between these values. the total amount paid out corresponds to
      the number of performance shares allotted to a participant multiplied by the average share price over
      the last quarter of the three-year performance period. once the performance period has expired,
      participants may freely dispose of their personal investment in gea group aktiengesellschaft shares.

      the 2011 tranche expired on june 30, 2014. the tsr comparison over the three-year performance
      period resulted in a payout ratio of 0.00 percent (previous year: 2010 tranche, 78.71 percent), as gea
      group aktiengesellschaft’s shares did not match the median performance of the companies included
      in the benchmark index in the tsr comparison. consequently, there was no payout in 2014 (previous
      year: eur 4,381 thousand). of the amount paid out in the previous year, eur 772 thousand was
      attributable to the sold gea hx segment.

      the number of performance shares changed as follows in fiscal year 2014:

                                                                                                       changes in
                                                                                                      consolidated
      (number of shares)                          12/31/2013     additions     expired     paid out          group   12/31/2014
      2011 tranche                                  161,989             –     161,989            –              –            –
      2012 tranche                                  160,900             –       3,125            –         20,725      137,050
      2013 tranche                                  174,844             –       4,835            –         16,113      153,896
      2014 tranche                                        –      140,210            –            –              –      140,210
      total                                         497,733      140,210      169,949            –         36,838      431,156



      the total expense for the group as a whole for fiscal year 2014 amounts to eur 413 thousand (previous
      year: eur 5,178 thousand), taking into account the fair value as of december 31, 2014, of eur 22.30
      (previous year: eur 19.91) for the 2012 tranche, eur 25.88 (previous year: eur 25.19) for the 2013
      tranche, and eur 37.97 for the 2014 tranche, as well as eur 0.00 (previous year: eur 21.32) for the
      2011 tranche (previous year: 2010 tranche) at the payment date. of this amount, income of
      eur 274 thousand (previous year: expense of eur 750 thousand) was attributable to the sold gea hx
      segment, largely due to the expiry of the 2011 tranche.




184                                              gea group annual report 2014

     notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




the fair value of the performance shares is determined using a monte carlo simulation. the following
valuation assumptions are applied:

                                                              2014                                 2013
tranche                                               2012        2013        2014        2011        2012         2013
share price (eur)                                    38.11        37.29       36.60       36.16       35.37       34.60
dividend yield (%)                                   2.050        2.050       2.050       1.880       1.880       1.880
risk-free interest rate (%)                         –0.084       –0.094      –0.102       0.105       0.170       0.335
volatility gea shares (%)                            22.60        22.60       22.60       19.06       19.06       19.06



as the payout ratio of gea group aktiengesellschaft’s performance shares is linked to the mdax or tmi
ie, the volatilities of all mdax or tmi ie shares and their correlations to gea group aktiengesellschaft
shares are also calculated. the calculation of volatilities and correlations is based on historical market
data. risk-free interest rates were determined from german government bond yields.

phantom shares
a long-term incentive component was added to the bonus arrangements for executive board members
in fiscal years 2010 and 2011. under this, half of the bonus was payable with the regular salary payment
and the other half was converted into phantom shares of the company. it was calculated as the
arithmetic mean of the daily closing prices of gea group shares in xetra trading operated by the
frankfurt stock exchange on the trading days in the three-month period that ended one month before
the date of the supervisory board meeting convened in fiscal year 2014 to adopt the financial
statements.

the payout value of the phantom shares is calculated following the expiration of a lock-up period of
three years following the conversion into phantom shares. the amount of the payout is calculated as
the arithmetic mean of the daily closing prices of gea group aktiengesellschaft shares in xetra trading
operated by the frankfurt stock exchange on the trading days in the three-month period that ends one
month before the date of the relevant supervisory board meeting convened to adopt the financial
statements in the fiscal year in which the lock-up period expires. the dividends payable per share
during the lock-up period are added to the value calculated in this way. the amount to be paid out
under these arrangements is limited to 300 percent of the annual basic bonus. in the event of
termination of the executive board member’s contract of service, the three-year vesting period is
reduced to one year as from the date of termination.

because the exercise price is zero and this share-based payment program does not feature a vesting
period, the fair value of the phantom shares corresponds to the quoted market price of gea group
aktiengesellschaft shares. the fair value of the liability for the 2011 tranche is calculated by multiplying
the number of phantom shares by the relevant closing price, plus dividends paid during the lock-up
period. the 2010 tranche was paid out in full in fiscal year 2014, at a payout price of eur 34.10. due to
the termination of an executive board member’s contract of service, part of the 2011 tranche was also
paid out at a price of eur 35.11.




                                            gea group annual report 2014                                                  185

           notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      the number of phantom shares changed as follows in fiscal year 2014:


      (number of shares)                                         12/31/2013    additions              expired        paid out          12/31/2014
      2010 tranche                                                  57,887            –                    –           57,887                  –
      2011 tranche                                                  81,460            –                    –           19,965             61,495
      total                                                        139,347            –                    –           77,852             61,495



      the relevant price for the phantom shares issued in fiscal year 2011 was eur 38.30 (previous
      year: eur 35.70). in fiscal year 2014, expenses of eur 180 thousand (previous year: eur 1,453 thousand)
      were recognized in respect of phantom shares. the liability as of december 31, 2014, amounted to
      eur 2,355 thousand (previous year: eur 4,963 thousand). this amount is reported in current employee
      benefit obligations under bonuses.

      long-term share price component
      the long-term share price component was introduced as part of the revision of the variable
      remuneration system for executive board members in fiscal year 2012. the payout from the long-term
      share price component is measured over a three-year performance period that includes the relevant
      fiscal year and the two subsequent years.

      performance is measured by comparing the performance of the gea share price, adjusted for dividends,
      with the performance of the stoxx® europe tmi industrial engineering (tmi ie) index over a three-
      year performance period. the starting value for the comparison calculation is the arithmetic mean of
      the closing prices of the last 20 trading days before the commencement of the three-year performance
      period. 100 percent of the target is achieved if the performance of the arithmetic mean of the gea
      share daily closing prices is equal to 100 percent of the corresponding tmi performance over the three-
      year performance period. in the event of outperformance by more than 100 percent, the bonus
      increases up to a maximum of 300 percent of the target amount. if the increase in gea’s share price
      over the three-year comparison period is less than 100 percent of the growth in the tmi ie, the bonus
      is reduced up to a performance of 75 percent: for each percentage point over or under 100 percent
      performance, the degree of target achievement increases or decreases by 4 percent. the total degree of
      target achievement and thus the payout level for the long-term share price component is limited to
      300 percent of this target amount (cap).

      starting from a target amount of eur 1,793 thousand (previous year: eur 1,188 thousand), the fair
      value of claims arising from the long-term share price component amounted to eur 2,664 thousand
      (previous year: eur 1,908 thousand) as of the reporting date.

      the fair value of the claims arising from the long-term share price component is determined using a
      monte carlo simulation. the following valuation assumptions are applied:

                                                                                               2014                             2013
                                                                                   2014 tranche     2013 tranche    2013 tranche   2012 tranche
      share price (arithmetic mean) (eur)                                                   34.66           32.50         29.58             27.06
      stoxx tmi ie (arithmetic mean) (index points)                                        346.47          339.31        332.15           306.89
      risk-free interest (percent)                                                         –0.099           0.100         0.243             0.125
      volatility gea share (percent)                                                        22.29           22.29         19.92             19.92
      volatility stoxx tmi ie (percent)                                                     15.66           15.66         15.68             15.68
      correlation between gea share and stoxx tmi ie (percent)                              66.12           66.12         50.74             50.74




186                                                        gea group annual report 2014

     notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




the calculation of volatilities and correlation is based on historical market data. risk-free interest
rates were determined from german government bond yields.

6.4            financial liabilities
financial liabilities as of december 31, 2014, were composed of the following items:


(eur thousand)                                                                                           12/31/2014     12/31/2013
borrower‘s note loan                                                                                        89,842         299,508
bonds                                                                                                      274,045         398,343
liabilities to banks                                                                                        50,344         218,781
liabilities under finance leases                                                                            31,419           32,543
liabilities from derivatives                                                                                10,422            8,610
non-current financial liabilities                                                                          456,072         957,785
borrower‘s note loan                                                                                           699              850
bonds                                                                                                        8,157           11,877
liabilities to banks                                                                                       106,033           41,975
liabilities under finance leases                                                                             3,510            3,655
liabilities from derivatives                                                                                13,946            8,381
liabilities to equity investments                                                                            1,129            1,130
current financial liabilities                                                                              133,474          67,868
total financial liabilities                                                                                589,546       1,025,653



the financing of gea group as of december 31, 2014, consisted mainly of the following items:

                                       carrying amount carrying amount   notional value     fair value
(eur thousand)                              12/31/2014      12/31/2013     12/31/2014     12/31/2014                       maturity
gea bond                                      282,202         410,220         274,739        295,810                  april 21, 2016
                                                                                                                 redeemed early on
kreditanstalt für wiederaufbau (kfw)                –          60,023                –              –           november 28, 2014
                                                                                                                 redeemed early on
kreditanstalt für wiederaufbau (kfw)                –          42,003                –              –           november 28, 2014
                                                                                                     partial repayment amounting
                                                                                                     to eur 100,000 thousand on
                                                                                                     january 14, 2015; remaining
european investment bank                      150,345         150,353         150,000        151,213      portion on july 14, 2017
borrower‘s note loan                           90,541         300,358          90,000         95,222            september 19, 2017


bond
on april 14, 2011, gea group aktiengesellschaft issued a bond amounting to eur 400,000 thousand.
the bond has a five-year term and a fixed coupon of 4.25 percent. in 2014 bonds amounting to
eur 125,261 thousand were repurchased. the bond is unsecured. it is listed on the regulated market of
the luxembourg stock exchange.

borrower’s note loans
in 2012, gea group aktiengesellschaft placed borrower’s note loans with a nominal amount of
eur 300,000 thousand. in 2013, eur 73,000 thousand of the borrower’s note loans in the aggregate
amount of eur 128,000 thousand originally falling due in august 2013 was extended until
september 2017. in addition, two further borrower’s note loans were placed in 2013; they amounted to
eur 137,000 thousand and eur 90,000 thousand and mature in september 2017.

borrower’s note loans amounting to eur 210,000 thousand were repaid early in 2014. the remaining
borrower’s note loans in the amount of eur 90,000 thousand have a fixed interest rate of 2.725 percent.




                                              gea group annual report 2014                                                             187

           notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      liabilities to banks
      the maturities of liabilities to banks are as follows:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                  12/31/2014    12/31/2013
      < 1 year                                                                                          106,033        41,975
      1 - 2 years                                                                                           137        34,494
      2 - 3 years                                                                                        50,138        34,081
      3 - 4 years                                                                                            69       150,136
      4 - 5 years                                                                                             –              70
      total                                                                                             156,377       260,756



      the amounts falling due within the next 12 months are largely attributable to the early partial
      repayment of eur 100,000 thousand of the loan from the european investment bank (eib), which
      amounted to eur 150,000 thousand as of december 31, 2014. the remaining amount of
      eur 50,000 thousand will be repaid as scheduled in 2017. the weighted average interest rate for this
      partial amount was fixed at 3.29 percent for the full term using two interest rate swaps.

      none of the credit lines drawn down are secured. gea group has undertaken in the loan agreements to
      comply with a certain covenant. compliance with the covenant must be reviewed at the end of each
      quarter. the covenant was met as of december 31, 2014.

      transaction costs for the unused syndicated credit line (club deal) as of the end of the year are allocated
      on a straight-line basis over the term.

      other liabilities to banks in the eurozone bore interest rates of between 0.5 percent and 2.0 percent,
      depending on their maturity and financing purpose (previous year: between 0.1 percent and
      4.6 percent). the group additionally had foreign currency liabilities in indian rupees and brazilian real
      that also bear standard market interest rates in those countries of around 12.0 percent (previous
      year: 12.0 percent) and 13.5 percent (previous year: 13.0 percent), respectively.

      liabilities to banks totaling eur 0 thousand (previous year: eur 22 thousand) were secured.

      cash credit and guarantee credit lines
      including the borrower’s note loans and the syndicated credit lines, the group as a whole had cash
      credit lines of eur 1,305,421 thousand as of december 31, 2014 (previous year: eur 1,740,182 thousand).
      of this amount, cash credit lines of eur 776,315 thousand (previous year: eur 765,905 thousand) are
      unutilized (see section 3). in addition, guarantee credit lines for the performance of contracts, advance
      payments, and warranty obligations of eur 1,732,338 thousand (previous year: eur 1,886,355 thousand)
      were available to the group as a whole, of which eur 1,270,261 thousand (previous year: eur 1,178,431
      thousand) has not been utilized.




188                                               gea group annual report 2014

    notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




liabilities under finance leases
the following table shows a breakdown of future payments under finance leases:

                                                                                                            present value of
                                             minimum lease payments             interest                minimum lease payments
(eur thousand)                               12/31/2014     12/31/2013   12/31/2014        12/31/2013    12/31/2014    12/31/2013
not later than one year                           3,997          4,172         487               516          3,510         3,656
between one and five years                       15,923        16,220        4,085             4,191         11,838       12,029
later than five years                            51,963        59,203       32,382            38,689         19,581       20,514
total future payments under finance leases       71,883        79,595       36,954            43,396        34,929        36,199



liabilities under finance leases relate mainly to land and buildings. the present value of minimum
lease payments as of december 31, 2014, relating to leases for land and buildings amounted to
eur 34,599 thousand (previous year: eur 35,447 thousand).

as the interest rates used in leases are constant, the fair value of lease liabilities may be exposed to
interest rate risk. all leases comprise contractually agreed payments.

liabilities under finance leases are effectively secured because the rights to the leased asset revert to
the lessor if the terms and conditions of the lease are breached.

derivative financial instruments
derivative financial instruments are explained in section 6.8.

6.5           trade payables
trade payables were as follows as of december 31, 2014:


(eur thousand)                                                                                          12/31/2014    12/31/2013
trade payables                                                                                            639,719        646,529
 thereof to unconsolidated companies                                                                        8,066          5,195



trade payables of eur 638,994 thousand (previous year: eur 645,985 thousand) are due within one
year. the balance of eur 725 thousand (previous year: eur 544 thousand) is due after more than one
year.

trade payables in the amount of eur 46,032 thousand (previous year: eur 54,033 thousand) are
secured.




                                             gea group annual report 2014                                                           189

           notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      6.6            income tax liabilities
      income tax liabilities relate to current taxes and amounted to eur 35,649 (previous year: eur 32,038
      thousand).

      6.7            other liabilities
      other liabilities as of december 31, 2014, are composed of the following items:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                  12/31/2014    12/31/2013
      other non-current liabilities                                                                      58,566         2,834
      payments on account received in respect of orders and construction contracts                      188,802       177,433
      gross amount due to customers for contract work                                                   254,928       292,961
      other liabilities to unconsolidated subsidiaries                                                   24,166        22,047
      liabilities from other taxes                                                                       47,307        52,165
      other liabilities                                                                                 102,916        58,840
       thereof social security                                                                           13,284        13,429
       thereof other liabilities to employees                                                             6,615         7,156
      other current liabilities                                                                         618,119       603,446
      total other liabilities                                                                           676,685       606,280



      payments on account received in respect of orders amounting to eur 22,409 thousand (previous
      year: eur 74,955 thousand) and other liabilities amounting to eur 7,711 thousand (previous
      year: eur 20,786 thousand) are secured.

      the gross amount due to customers for contract work is the aggregate amount of orders whose progress
      billings exceed the capitalized cost plus the contract gains and losses recognized.

      the increase in other liabilities is primarily attributable to financial obligations arising from the sale
      of the gea hx segment due to contractual warranties associated with the sale, including obligations
      from risk sharing for large projects (see section 4).




190                                                           gea group annual report 2014

     notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




6.8             financial instruments
the following tables provide an overview of the composition of financial instruments as of
december 31, 2014, by class within the meaning of ifrs 7 as well as by measurement category. the
tables also include financial assets and liabilities, as well as derivatives that are included in recognized
hedging relationships but do not belong to any of the ias 39 measurement categories.

                                                                             measurement in accordance with ias 39
                                                                                                              fair value
                                                                                                            recognized     measurement
                                                                carrying                       fair value      in other    in accordance
                                                                amount                           through comprehensive         with other     fair value
(eur thousand)                                               12/31/2014    amortized cost   profit or loss      income              ifrss   12/31/2014

assets
trade receivables                                               945,755          691,440              –               –         254,315        945,755
 thereof poc receivables                                        254,315                –              –               –         254,315        254,315
income tax receivables                                           17,531                –              –               –          17,531         17,531
cash and cash equivalents                                     1,195,858        1,195,858              –               –                –     1,195,858
other financial assets                                          454,058          282,643         16,558          50,006         104,851        454,058
 thereof derivatives included in
 hedging relationships                                            4,453                –              –           4,453                –         4,453

by ias 39 measurement category
loans and receivables                                         2,145,183        2,145,183              –               –                –     2,145,183
 thereof cash and cash equivalents                            1,195,858        1,195,858              –               –                –     1,195,858
 thereof trade receivables                                      691,440          691,440              –               –                –       691,440
 thereof other financial assets                                 257,885          257,885              –               –                –       257,885
available-for-sale investments                                   70,311           24,758              –          45,553                –        70,311
financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
(derivatives not included in a recognized hedging
relationship)                                                    16,558                –         16,558               –                –        16,558

liabilities
trade payables                                                  639,719          639,719              –               –                –       639,719
financial liabilities                                           589,546          530,249         11,445          12,923          34,929        608,703
 thereof liabilities under finance leases                        34,929                –              –               –          34,929         34,929
 thereof derivatives included in hedging
 relationships                                                   12,923                –              –          12,923                –        12,923
income tax liabilities                                           35,649                –              –               –          35,649         35,649
other liabilities                                               676,685          160,086              –               –         516,599        676,898

by ias 39 measurement category
financial liabilities at amortized cost                       1,330,054        1,330,054              –               –                –     1,349,424
 thereof trade payables                                         639,719          639,719              –               –                –       639,719
 thereof bonds and other securitized liabilities                372,743          372,743              –               –                –       391,032
 thereof liabilities to banks                                   156,377          156,377              –               –                –       157,245
 thereof loan liabilities to unconsolidated subsidiaries          1,129            1,129              –               –                –         1,129
 thereof other liabilities to affiliated
 companies                                                       24,166           24,166              –               –                –        24,379
 thereof other liabilities                                      135,920          135,920              –               –                –       136,133
financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
(derivatives not included in a hedging relationship)             11,445                –         11,445               –                –        11,445




                                                             gea group annual report 2014                                                                  191

           notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




                                                                                   measurement in accordance with ias 39
                                                                                                                    fair value
                                                                                                                  recognized     measurement
                                                                      carrying                       fair value      in other    in accordance
                                                                      amount                           through comprehensive         with other     fair value
      (eur thousand)                                               12/31/2013    amortized cost   profit or loss      income              ifrss   12/31/2013

      assets
      trade receivables                                               929,156          663,580              –               –         265,576        929,156
       thereof poc receivables                                        265,576                –              –               –         265,576        265,576
      income tax receivables                                            8,332                –              –               –            8,332         8,332
      cash and cash equivalents                                       683,520          683,520              –               –                –       683,520
      other financial assets                                          151,007           64,383          4,809          16,025          65,790        151,007
       thereof derivatives included in hedging
       relationships                                                    6,450                –              –           6,450                –         6,450

      by ias 39 measurement category
      loans and receivables                                         1,384,075        1,384,075              –               –                –     1,384,075
       thereof cash and cash equivalents                              683,520          683,520              –               –                –       683,520
       thereof trade receivables                                      663,580          663,580              –               –                –       663,580
       thereof other financial assets                                  36,975           36,975              –               –                –        36,975
      available-for-sale investments                                   36,983           27,408              –           9,575                –        36,983
      financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
      (derivatives not included in a recognized hedging
      relationship)                                                     4,809                –          4,809               –                –         4,809

      liabilities
      trade payables                                                  646,529          646,529              –               –                –       646,529
      financial liabilities                                         1,025,653          972,464         10,985           6,006          36,198      1,076,221
       thereof liabilities under finance leases                        36,198                –              –               –          36,198         36,198
       thereof derivatives included in hedging
       relationships                                                    6,006                –              –           6,006                –         6,006
      income tax liabilities                                           32,038                –              –               –          32,038         32,038
      other liabilities                                               606,280           59,748              –               –         546,532        606,280

      by ias 39 measurement category
      financial liabilities at amortized cost                       1,678,741        1,678,741              –               –                –     1,729,309
       thereof trade payables                                         646,529          646,529              –               –                –       646,529
       thereof bonds and other securitized liabilities                710,578          710,578              –               –                –       755,341
       thereof liabilities to banks                                   260,756          260,756              –               –                –       266,561
       thereof loan liabilities to unconsolidated
       subsidiaries                                                     1,130            1,130              –               –                –         1,130
       thereof other liabilities to affiliated companies               22,047           22,047              –               –                –        22,047
       thereof other liabilities                                       37,701           37,701              –               –                –        37,701
      financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
      (derivatives not included in a hedging relationship)             10,985                –         10,985               –                –        10,985



      the fair values of the financial instruments recognized under assets held for sale and liabilities held
      for sale are not presented separately, since their carrying amounts represent reasonable approximations
      of their fair value.

      financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value, or for which a fair value is disclosed in
      the notes to the consolidated financial statements, are required to be categorized according to the fair
      value hierarchy described in the following. categorization within the levels of the fair value hierarchy
      is based on the measurement of the underlying inputs:

      level 1 inputs: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical financial assets and liabilities.




192                                                                gea group annual report 2014

     notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




level 2 inputs: quoted market prices that are observable as direct (prices) or indirect (derived from
prices) inputs used to measure fair value and that are not quoted prices as defined by level 1.

level 3 inputs: inputs that are not based on observable market data.

the following table shows the categorization of financial assets and financial liabilities into the three-
level fair value hierarchy:

recurring fair value measurements                                        12/31/2014                                       12/31/2013
                                                           carrying               fair value                 carrying              fair value
(eur thousand)                                             amount       level 1       level 2      level 3   amount      level 1       level 2      level 3

financial assets measured at fair value
derivatives included in hedging relationships                  4,453         –         4,453            –      6,450          –         6,450            –
derivatives not included in hedging relationships            16,558          –       16,558             –      4,809          –         4,809            –
available-for-sale financial assets valued at fair value       8,518         –                 –    8,518      9,575          –                 –    9,575
other financial assets                                       37,036     37,036                 –        –          –          –                 –        –

financial liabilities measured at fair value
derivatives included in hedging relationships                12,923          –       12,923             –      6,006          –         6,006            –
derivatives not included in hedging relationships            11,445          –       11,445             –     10,985          –       10,985             –

financial liabilities not measured at fair value
bonds                                                       282,202    295,810                 –        –    410,220    438,866                 –        –
promissory note bonds                                        90,541          –       95,222             –    300,358          –      316,475             –
liabilities to banks                                        156,377          –      157,245             –    260,756          –      266,561             –
other financial liabilities                                  76,987          –                 –   77,200          –          –                 –        –



there were no transfers into or out of the levels of the fair value hierarchy in fiscal year 2014.

the fair value of the bond and the other financial assets is calculated on the basis of quoted bid prices
on an active market and is therefore categorized within level 1. the fair value includes the interest
deferred as of the reporting date.

the fair value of derivatives is calculated using quoted exchange rates and yield curves observable in
the market. accordingly, these are categorized within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.

the fair value of term deposits, borrower’s note loans, and liabilities to banks is measured on the basis
of the yield curve, taking into account credit spreads. they are therefore categorized within level 2 of
the fair value hierarchy. the interest deferred as of the reporting date is included in the fair values.

the fair values of trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents, term deposits, and other financial
receivables essentially correspond to the carrying amounts; this is due to the predominantly short
remaining maturities.

certain other financial liabilities resulting from the sale of the gea hx segment are categorized within
level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, since their fair value is measured on the basis of the present value
of future cash outflows expected on the basis of contractual obligations associated with the sale.




                                                             gea group annual report 2014                                                                     193

           notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      a receivable relating to the former raw material activities of metallgesellschaft ag that had previously
      been written off was allocated to level 3 financial instruments; its fair value is determined by means
      of a present value calculation on the basis of the debtor’s payment plan.

      the following table shows the changes in fair value in fiscal year 2014:


      (eur thousand)
      fair value 12/31/2013                                                                                                             9,575
      redemption                                                                                                                            –
      interest income                                                                                                                     398
      currency translation                                                                                                                342
      revaluation                                                                                                                      –1,797
      fair value 12/31/2014                                                                                                             8,518



      as the debtor operates a copper mine, its payment plan is influenced by the price of copper.

      unrealized losses recognized directly in equity for this financial instrument amounted to eur –1,427
      thousand as of the reporting date (previous year: gains of eur 370 thousand).
      gea group aktiengesellschaft has entered into netting agreements with banks under the german
      master agreement for financial derivatives transactions. as a general rule, the amounts owed under
      such agreements by each counterparty from all outstanding transactions in the same currency on a
      single day are aggregated to a single net amount payable by one party to the other. in the event of a
      credit event, such as late payment, all outstanding transactions under the agreement will be terminated,
      the value on termination calculated, and one single net amount paid to settle all transactions.

      the following table shows the financial assets and liabilities for which the group as a whole has entered
      into netting agreements:

                                                  gross amounts        net amounts of financial
                                                     of financial     assets/liabilties, presented      respective amounts not
      (eur thousand)                              assets/liabilties         in the balance sheet     netted in the balance sheet   net amounts
      12/31/2014
      receivables from derivatives                        19,183                          19,183                          8,278        10,905
      liabilities from derivatives                        22,111                          22,111                          8,278        13,833
      12/31/2013
      receivables from derivatives                          9,049                          9,049                          5,378         3,671
      liabilities from derivatives                        17,110                          17,110                          5,378        11,732


      nonderivative financial assets
      the carrying amount of the trade receivables and other financial assets that are subject to the ias 39
      measurement requirements corresponds to their fair value. assets allocated to the “available-for-sale
      financial assets” category are measured at amortized cost. these are shares in unconsolidated
      subsidiaries and other equity investments whose fair value cannot be determined reliably.




194                                               gea group annual report 2014

    notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




nonderivative financial liabilities
the carrying amount of the trade payables and other current liabilities that are subject to the
measurement rules of ias 39 corresponds to their fair value. the fair value of fixed-rate liabilities is
the present value of their expected future cash flows. they are discounted at the rates prevailing at the
reporting date. the carrying amount of variable-rate liabilities corresponds to their fair value.

derivative financial instruments
the fair value of currency forwards at the reporting date is calculated on the basis of the spot exchange
rate, taking into account forward premiums and discounts corresponding to the relevant remaining
maturities. forward premiums and discounts are derived from yield curves observable at the reporting
date. the fair value of currency options is calculated on the basis of recognized valuation models. fair
value is affected by the remaining term of the option, the current exchange rate, the volatility of the
exchange rate, and the underlying yield curves.

the fair value of interest rate swaps and options is determined on the basis of discounted expected
future cash flows. market interest rates applicable to the remaining maturities of these financial
instruments are used. cross-currency swaps also include the exchange rates of the relevant foreign
currencies in which the cash flows are generated.

the fair value of commodity futures and options is calculated by measuring these at the market terms
prevailing at the reporting date, and thus corresponds to its value at the end of the fiscal year. the fair
value of exchange-traded contracts is derived from their quoted market price. measurements are
performed both internally and by external financial institutions as of the reporting date.

gea group uses derivative financial instruments, including currency forwards, interest rate swaps,
cross-currency swaps, and commodity futures. derivative financial instruments serve to hedge foreign
currency risk, interest rate risk, and commodity price risk for existing or planned underlying
transactions.

the following table presents the notional values and fair values of the derivative financial instruments
in use as of the reporting date. the notional value in foreign currency is translated at the closing rate.

                                                                                              12/31/2014                      12/31/2013
(eur thousand)                                                                        notional value       fair value notional value       fair value

assets
currency derivatives not included in a hedging relationship                                748,907           16,558        192,880            4,809
currency derivatives included in a cash flow hedge                                         154,190            4,453        231,089            6,450
interest rate and cross-currency derivatives not included in a hedging relationship               –                –              –                –
interest rate and cross-currency derivatives included in a cash flow hedge                        –                –              –                –
total                                                                                      903,097          21,011         423,969           11,259

equity and liabilities
currency derivatives not included in a hedging relationship                                219,092            4,945        344,011            5,775
currency derivatives included in a cash flow hedge                                         236,672            9,695        128,657            2,741
interest rate and cross-currency derivatives not included in a hedging relationship         40,113            6,500         43,348            5,210
interest rate and cross-currency derivatives included in a cash flow hedge                  50,000            3,228         50,000            3,265
total                                                                                      545,877          24,368         566,016           16,991




                                                           gea group annual report 2014                                                                 195

         notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      derivative financial instruments included in recognized hedging relationships
      derivative financial instruments included in recognized hedging relationships serve exclusively to
      hedge foreign currency risks from future sale and procurement transactions, as well as interest rate
      risks from long-term financing (cash flow hedges). fair value hedges are recognized to hedge changes
      in the fair value of assets, liabilities, or firm commitments. as in the previous year, the group had not
      entered into any fair value hedges as of december 31, 2014.

      derivatives are measured at fair value, which is split into an effective and an ineffective portion. the
      effective portion and any change in this amount are recognized in other comprehensive income until
      the hedged item is recognized in the balance sheet. the ineffective portion is recognized in the income
      statement. when the hedged item is recognized in the balance sheet, gains and losses recognized in
      equity are realized and the hedge is unwound. in the case of a sale transaction, the effective portion is
      recognized as revenue, whereas in the case of a procurement transaction the cost is adjusted
      accordingly. in the case of interest rate derivatives, the gains and losses recognized in equity are
      reversed to net interest income.

      as of december 31, 2014, the complete group recognized gains of eur 5,576 thousand (previous
      year: eur 7,860 thousand) and losses of eur 13,030 thousand (previous year: eur 7,168 thousand)
      from currency and interest rate derivatives directly in equity.

      in the course of fiscal year 2014, eur −47 thousand (previous year: eur 1,956 thousand) was recognized
      in the income statement due to the hedged items being recognized in the balance sheet, and
      eur 3,497 thousand (previous year: eur 2,335 thousand) was offset against the cost of assets. the
      amounts recognized in the income statement resulted in an increase in revenue of eur 1,545 thousand
      (previous year: eur 1,010 thousand). in addition, gains of eur 5,419 thousand (previous year: gains of
      eur 4,330 thousand) and losses of eur −7,012 thousand (previous year: losses of eur −4,061 thousand)
      were reported in net exchange rate gains/losses. eur 0 thousand (previous year: eur −826 thousand)
      from interest rate derivatives was recognized in net interest income.

      as in the previous year, there was no significant hedge ineffectiveness.

      96 percent (previous year: 93 percent) of the hedged cash flows from the underlying transactions
      designated at the reporting date are expected to fall due in the following year. the remaining 4 percent
      (previous year: 7 percent) are due by 2017 (previous year: 2017). if financial assets are hedged, the
      derivatives are recognized in the income statement at the same time as the hedged items are recognized
      in the income statement and balance sheet. if financial liabilities from procurement transactions are
      hedged, the derivatives are recognized in the income statement when the purchased goods or services
      are recognized in the income statement.




196                                             gea group annual report 2014

     notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




derivative financial instruments not included in recognized hedging relationships
if the criteria for recognizing a hedging relationship are not met, any change in fair value is recognized
in the income statement

income and expenses
the measurement effects from financial instruments have largely been recognized in profit or loss.
the following table shows net income from financial instruments, broken down by the ias 39
measurement categories:

                                                              12/31/2014                                   12/31/2013
                                                                                   thereof                                       thereof
                                                                              impairment                                    impairment
                                                                   thereof          losses/                     thereof           losses/
                                                                   interest    reversals of                     interest     reversals of
                                                                  income/     impairment                       income/      impairment
(eur thousand)                                   net income       expense            losses   net income       expense             losses
loans and receivables                              –35,073          5,270         –5,730          5,949          5,132          –3,104
available-for-sale investments                        –172            153                –       –1,660                 7          –280
financial assets/liabilities at fair value
through profit or loss                              31,038         –1,260                –       –2,469            555                 –
financial liabilities at amortized cost            –41,086        –44,175                –      –44,500        –43,453                 –
total                                              –45,293        –40,012         –5,730        –42,680        –37,759          –3,384




                                             gea group annual report 2014                                                                   197

                       notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated income statement disclosures




      7.           consolidated income statement disclosures
      7.1          revenue
      revenue is composed of the following items:

                                                                                                    01/01/2014 -    01/01/2013 -
      (eur thousand)                                                                                 12/31/2014      12/31/2013
      from construction contracts                                                                     2,207,366       2,103,347
      from sale of goods and services                                                                 1,082,977       1,063,663
      from service agreements                                                                         1,225,346       1,152,984
      total                                                                                           4,515,689       4,319,994




      7.2          other income
      other income is composed of the following items:

                                                                                                    01/01/2014 -    01/01/2013 -
      (eur thousand)                                                                                 12/31/2014      12/31/2013
      exchange rate gains                                                                               100,377          96,419
      gains on the measurement of foreign currency derivatives                                           69,141          37,931
      rental and lease income                                                                             3,963           4,496
      income from payments received on reversals previously written off                                   2,956           2,364
      income from disposal of non-current assets                                                          1,798           1,738
      income from compensation payments and cost reimbursements                                           1,501           2,413
      miscellaneous other income                                                                         49,457          49,554
      total                                                                                             229,193         194,915




      7.3          other expenses
      other expenses are composed of the following items:

                                                                                                    01/01/2014 -    01/01/2013 -
      (eur thousand)                                                                                 12/31/2014      12/31/2013
      exchange rate losses                                                                              133,238          97,079
      losses on the measurement of foreign currency derivatives                                          36,843          40,955
      bad debt allowances on trade receivables                                                            8,686           5,468
      cost of money transfers and payment transactions                                                    1,172           1,297
      losses on the disposal of non-current assets                                                        1,092             856
      miscellaneous other expenses                                                                       21,300          23,514
      total                                                                                             202,331         169,169



      




198                                                           gea group annual report 2014

                 notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated income statement disclosures




7.4          presentation of selected income and expenses by cost type

cost of materials
the cost of materials included in cost of sales increased by eur 68,885 thousand in the reporting
period to eur 2,204,694 thousand (previous year: eur 2,135,809 thousand). cost of materials was
48.5 percent of gross revenue and was therefore lower than the previous year’s figure of 49.4 percent.

personnel expenses
personnel expenses increased by eur 64,588 thousand in 2014 to eur 1,242,263 thousand (previous
year: eur 1,177,675 thousand). the cost of unwinding the discount on expected pension obligations is
not recognized under personnel expenses, but under financial and interest expenses. personnel
expenses include wages and salaries in the amount of eur 1,022,399 thousand (previous
year: eur 968,273 thousand) as well as social security contributions and expenses for post-employment
benefits of eur 219,709 thousand (previous year: eur 209,402 thousand). the ratio of personnel
expenses to revenue thus remained unchanged at 27.3 percent of gross revenue (previous
year: 27.3 percent)

depreciation, amortization, and impairment losses
depreciation, amortization, and impairment losses totaling eur 100,780 thousand (previous
year: eur 95,317 thousand) were charged on property, plant, and equipment, investment property, and
intangible assets in the reporting period. depreciation, amortization, and impairment losses are largely
included in cost of sales.

impairment losses on nonderivative financial assets excluding trade receivables amounted to
eur 0 thousand in the reporting period (previous year: eur 280 thousand). of this amount,
eur 0 thousand (previous year: eur 280 thousand) was attributable to non-current financial assets.
impairment losses on equity investments and marketable securities are contained in the financial
expenses item. inventories were written down by eur 12,613 thousand (previous year: eur 7,924 thousand).
these impairment losses and the remaining impairment losses were recognized in cost of sales.

7.5          financial and interest income

financial income
financial income is composed of income from profit transfers and investment income from other
equity investments:

                                                                                              01/01/2014 -    01/01/2013 -
(eur thousand)                                                                                 12/31/2014      12/31/2013
income from profit transfer agreements                                                                  –             595
income from other equity investments                                                                5,700           4,607
 thereof from unconsolidated subsidiaries                                                           5,683           4,563
total                                                                                               5,700           5,202




                                               gea group annual report 2014                                                  199

                       notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated income statement disclosures




      interest income
      interest and similar income is composed of the following items:

                                                                                                              01/01/2014 -   01/01/2013 -
      (eur thousand)                                                                                           12/31/2014     12/31/2013
      interest income on receivables, cash investments, and marketable securities                                   5,793          6,961
       thereof from unconsolidated subsidiaries                                                                       332            321
      other interest income                                                                                         1,264          1,974
      total                                                                                                         7,057          8,935



      the following table shows the interest income on financial instruments broken down by the ias 39
      measurement categories, along with the interest income on assets measured in accordance with other
      pronouncements:

                                                                                                              01/01/2014 -   01/01/2013 -
      (eur thousand)                                                                                           12/31/2014     12/31/2013
      loans and receivables                                                                                         5,270          5,132
      available-for-sale investments                                                                                  153              7
      financial assets at fair value through profit or loss                                                         1,634          3,796
      total                                                                                                         7,057          8,935




      7.6            financial and interest expenses

      financial expenses
      financial expenses for fiscal year 2014 amounted to eur 279 thousand (previous year: eur 958 thousand)
      and comprised impairment losses on financial assets (excluding trade receivables) of eur 0 thousand
      (previous year: eur 280 thousand) and expenses from loss absorption of eur 279 thousand (previous
      year: eur 678 thousand).

      interest expense
      interest and similar expenses comprised the following items:

                                                                                                              01/01/2014 -   01/01/2013 -
      (eur thousand)                                                                                           12/31/2014     12/31/2013
      interest expenses on liabilities to banks                                                                    36,885         32,187
      interest cost from discount unwinding on pension and medical care obligations                                19,788         19,939
      interest cost from discount unwinding on discounted provisions and other employee benefit obligations         3,136          6,631
      other interest expenses                                                                                      13,278         17,633
       thereof to unconsolidated subsidiaries                                                                          86            108
      total interest expenses                                                                                      73,087         76,390



      the following table shows the interest expenses on financial instruments broken down by the ias 39
      measurement categories, along with the interest expenses on liabilities measured in accordance with
      other pronouncements:

                                                                                                              01/01/2014 -   01/01/2013 -
      (eur thousand)                                                                                           12/31/2014     12/31/2013
      financial liabilities at amortized cost                                                                      44,175         43,453
      financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss                                                    2,894          3,241
      financial liabilities not measured in accordance with ias 39                                                 26,018         29,696
      total                                                                                                        73,087         76,390




200                                                                gea group annual report 2014

                 notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated income statement disclosures




if finance can be allocated to a specific investment, the actual borrowing costs are capitalized as part of
the cost of the investment. where no direct relationship can be established, the average interest rate
for group borrowings in the current period is used as the capitalization rate due to gea group’s central
financing function. this amounted to 3.4 percent in fiscal year 2014 (previous year: 3.5 percent).
interest income generated on advance payments and progress payments received reduces the cost of
the asset. no material borrowing costs were capitalized in fiscal year 2014 or in the previous year.

in fiscal year 2014, expenses totaling eur 1,172 thousand (previous year: eur 1,297 thousand) were
incurred for fees that were not included in the calculation of the effective interest rate.

7.7             taxes on income
income taxes for continuing operations are composed of the following items:

                                                                                                    01/01/2014 -    01/01/2013 -
(eur thousand)                                                                                       12/31/2014      12/31/2013
current taxes                                                                                             80,751            70,364
 germany                                                                                                  10,675             6,178
 other countries                                                                                          70,076            64,186
deferred taxes                                                                                             7,065             –267
 thereof related to temporary dfferences                                                                  13,837             9,352
total                                                                                                     87,816            70,097



the expected tax expense is calculated using the tax rate of 29.97 percent (previous year: 29.85 percent)
applicable to german group companies. this includes an average trade tax rate of 14.14 percent
(previous year: 14.02 percent) in addition to the uniform corporate income tax rate of 15.00 percent
(previous year: 15.00 percent) and the solidarity surcharge of 0.825 percent (previous year: 0.825 percent).
the following table shows a reconciliation of the expected tax rate to the effective tax rate of
23.49 percent (previous year: 19.91 percent):

                                                              01/01/2014 - 12/31/2014             01/01/2013 - 12/31/2013
                                                            (eur thousand)               (%)    (eur thousand)                (%)
profit before tax                                                 373,830                   –         352,136                    –
expected tax expense                                              112,034               29.97         105,113                29.85
non-tax deductible expense                                         11,347                3.03           7,447                 2.11
tax-exempt income                                                  –4,089               –1.09          –7,394                –2.10
change in valuation allowances                                    –32,864               –8.79         –37,689               –10.70
change in tax rates                                                –1,073               –0.29          –1,854                –0.53
foreign tax rate differences                                       –2,665               –0.71            –538                –0.15
other                                                               5,126                1.37           5,012                 1.42
income tax and effective tax rate                                  87,816               23.49          70,097                19.91



the change in valuation allowances in the amount of eur –32,864 thousand (previous year: eur –37,689
thousand) was primarily due to a revised assessment of the recoverability of the deferred tax assets on
tax loss carryforwards in the u.s.a.

the effects of changes in tax rates in the amount of eur –1,073 thousand (previous year: eur –1,854
thousand) in the reporting period were mainly due to the change in the tax rate in germany.
the foreign tax rate differences are due to different tax rates outside germany in comparison to the
german tax rate of 29.97 percent. the tax rates for foreign companies vary between 1.00 percent (uae)
and 40.91 percent (u.s.a.).




                                               gea group annual report 2014                                                          201

                       notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated income statement disclosures




      the other reconciliation effects include nondeductible withholding taxes in the amount of
      eur 1,693 thousand, prior-period taxes in the amount of eur –3,249 thousand, and other income taxes
      outside germany of eur 6,695 thousand. in the previous year, the “other” item included nondeductible
      withholding taxes in the amount of eur 3,861 thousand and prior-period taxes in the amount of
      eur 1,830 thousand.

      deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year under review can be broken down by maturity as
      follows:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                           12/31/2014        12/31/2013
      current deferred tax assets                                                                                 62,477              61,889
      non-current deferred tax assets                                                                            406,824             323,933
      total deferred tax assets                                                                                  469,301             385,822
      current deferred tax liabilities                                                                            49,166              48,018
      non-current deferred tax liabilities                                                                        69,432              50,761
      total deferred tax liabilities                                                                             118,598              98,779
      net deferred tax assets                                                                                    350,703             287,043


      deferred tax assets and liabilities as of december 31, 2014, and 2013, are composed of the following
      items:

                                                                                 deferred tax assets             deferred tax liabilities
      (eur thousand)                                                                  2014             2013           2014              2013
      property, plant and equipment                                                   7,443            6,536        22,874            20,513
      investment property                                                              322              225             355                   –
      intangible assets                                                                449             1,302        64,980            62,544
      goodwill                                                                     16,962          23,072           34,316            45,028
      other non-current financial assets                                               609              595           5,169             4,480
      non-current assets                                                          25,785           31,730          127,694           132,565
      inventories                                                                  26,449          25,286             3,018             3,416
      trade receivables                                                               4,975            4,780        48,138            44,928
      other current financial assets                                                  7,107            6,084        11,423            14,137
      cash and cash equivalents                                                         42                3              93                  17
      current assets                                                              38,573           36,153           62,672            62,498
      total assets                                                                64,358           67,883          190,366           195,063
      provisions                                                                   14,787          15,003               196                  17
      employee benefits                                                           123,074          84,964                34                 277
      non-current financial liabilities                                               6,832            5,487          1,577             2,678
      other non-current financial liabilities                                          864              685           1,387             1,703
      non-current liabilities                                                    145,557         106,139             3,194              4,675
      provisions                                                                   25,249          22,007             2,287             3,067
      employee benefits                                                            10,859              9,986             52                 216
      current financial liabilities                                                   6,499            6,746            245                 987
      trade payables                                                                  5,246            3,773          3,831             1,181
      other current financial liabilities                                             8,081        15,700             6,526             9,293
      current liabilities                                                         55,934           58,212           12,941            14,744
      total liabilities                                                          201,491         164,351            16,135            19,419
      valuation allowances on temporary differences                                –4,420          –8,022                   –                 –
      deferred taxes on temporary differences                                    261,429         224,212           206,501          214,482
      tax loss carryforwards                                                     987,158         943,554                                      –
      valuation allowances on tax loss carryforwards                             –691,383       –666,241                                      –
      offsetting of deferred taxes                                                –87,903       –115,703           –87,903         –115,703
      recognized deferred taxes                                                  469,301         385,822          118,598             98,779



      in addition to changes of eur –7,065 thousand recognized in profit or loss (previous year: eur 267
      thousand), changes in deferred taxes resulted mainly from changes of eur 58,122 thousand (previous




202                                                    gea group annual report 2014

                 notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated income statement disclosures




year: eur –1,175 thousand), including currency translation on translating foreign operations,
recognized in other comprehensive income. a further eur 14,543 thousand relating to the sale of the
gea hx segment was recognized in the tax result from discontinued operations.

deferred tax liabilities in the amount of eur 5,986 thousand recognized in the previous year were
reversed as a result of the sale of the gea hx segment. the related tax income was recognized in the
result from the sale of the gea hx segment.

as of december 31, 2014, no deferred taxes on temporary differences or tax loss carryforwards were
attributable to the gea hx segment.

as of december 31, 2013, net deferred taxes on temporary differences attributable to the gea hx
disposal group amounted to eur 15,311 thousand (before valuation allowances), and were presented
under assets held for sale and liabilities associated with assets held for sale. valuation allowances on
the deferred tax assets included in this figure amounted to eur 278 thousand as of december 31, 2013.

the deferred tax assets on tax loss carryforwards attributable to the gea hx disposal group amounted
to eur 23,678 thousand (before valuation allowances) in the previous year, and were presented under
assets held for sale. valuation allowances on these deferred tax assets amounted to eur 19,015
thousand as of december 31, 2013.

deferred tax liabilities of eur 1,747 thousand (previous year: eur 1,272 thousand) were recognized as
of december 31, 2014, for expected dividend payments from subsidiaries. in addition, as of december 31,
2014, deferred taxes of eur 2,689 thousand were recognized for withholding taxes likely to occur.

no deferred taxes were recognized for taxable temporary differences arising from investments in
subsidiaries in the amount of eur 314,211 thousand (previous year: eur 348,647 thousand) as of
december 31, 2014, since the company is able to control their reversal and no reversals will be made in
the foreseeable future.

deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax
assets against current tax liabilities and if the deferred taxes relate to income taxes levied by the same
taxation authority.

as of december 31, 2014, gea group recognized deferred tax assets in the amount of eur 295,776
thousand (previous year: eur 277,313 thousand) on tax loss carryforwards:


(eur thousand)                                                                                  12/31/2014    12/31/2013
deferred tax assets on domestic tax loss carryforwards
corporate income tax                                                                               74,000        77,548
trade tax                                                                                          69,000        66,452
deferred tax assets on foreign tax loss carryforwards                                             152,776       133,313
total                                                                                             295,776       277,313



the total amount of the deferred tax assets on tax loss carryforwards largely relates to the consolidated
tax groups in germany and the u.s.a.

the increase in deferred tax assets on foreign tax loss carryforwards is primarily attributable to the
change in the u.s. dollar exchange rate.

no deferred tax assets were recognized for corporate income tax loss carryforwards in the amount of
eur 1,616,254 thousand (previous year: eur 1,550,352 thousand) and trade tax loss carryforwards in
the amount of eur 1,117,552 thousand (previous year: eur 1,139,187 thousand) as their utilization is
not sufficiently certain. the tax loss carryforwards of the german companies can be carried forward




                                                         gea group annual report 2014                                      203

                       notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated income statement disclosures




      for an indefinite period. foreign tax loss carryforwards can generally only be utilized for a limited
      period. the significant tax loss carryforwards of the foreign companies are expected to expire in 2029.

      7.8           earnings per share
      earnings per share are calculated as follows:

                                                                                                    01/01/2014 -    01/01/2013 -
      (eur thousand)                                                                                 12/31/2014      12/31/2013
      profit for the period attributable to shareholders of gea group aktiengesellschaft                320,483         336,042
       thereof from continuing operations                                                               286,019         282,041
       thereof from discontinued operations                                                              34,464          54,001
      weighted average number of shares outstanding (thousand)                                          192,495         192,495

      basic and diluted earnings per share (eur)
      from profit for the period                                                                           1.66            1.75
       thereof attributable to continuing operations                                                       1.49            1.47
       thereof attributable to discontinued operations                                                     0.18            0.28




      7.9           appropriation of net profit
      gea group aktiengesellschaft reported net income for the fiscal year of eur 140,666 thousand in
      accordance with the hgb (previous year: eur 203,200 thousand). the executive board and the supervisory
      board of gea group aktiengesellschaft have appropriated an amount of eur 5,000 thousand (previous
      year: eur 90,000 thousand) to other retained earnings in accordance with section 58(2) of the aktg.
      including the profit brought forward of eur 879 thousand (previous year: eur 3,176 thousand), the net
      retained profits amounted to eur 136,546 thousand (previous year: eur 116,376 thousand).

      the executive board and supervisory board will propose to the annual general meeting that the net
      retained profits be appropriated as follows:


      appropriation (eur thousand)                                                                         2014            2013
      dividend payment to shareholders                                                                  134,747         115,497
      profit carried forward                                                                              1,799             879
      total                                                                                             136,546         116,376



      the dividend payment corresponds to the payment of a dividend of 70 cents per share for a total of
      192,495,476 shares (previous year: 192,495,476 shares). the dividend will be paid from the contribution
      account for tax purposes (section 27 of the körperschaftsteuergesetz (kstg – german corporate
      income tax act)), meaning that investment income tax and the solidarity surcharge will not be
      deducted. in the case of shareholders in germany, the dividend is not subject to current taxation in the
      year of payment. the opinion of the german tax authorities (see also the federal ministry of finance
      (bmf) circular dated december 22, 2009, paragraph 92) is that the payment of dividends from the
      contribution account for tax purposes constitutes a repayment of shareholder contributions, which
      results in a retrospective reduction in the cost of the shares. this may lead to taxation of higher capital
      gains when shares are sold subsequently.




204                                                            gea group annual report 2014

                                         notes to the consolidated financial statements /
                            contingent liabilities, other financial obligations, contingent assets, and litigation




8.            contingent liabilities, other financial obligations, 		
              contingent assets, and litigation
8.1           contingent liabilities
gea group has issued or instructed the issue of both bank and group guarantees in favor of customers
or lenders. the obligations presented in the following table relate to contingent liabilities for which
the primary debtor is not a consolidated company of the group as a whole.

                                                                                       bank guarantees               group guarantees
(eur thousand)                                                                           2014             2013          2014            2013
guarantees for prepayments                                                              10,248            6,993        2,202             248
warranties                                                                               1,740             230         4,180             221
performance guarantees                                                                  37,034           14,385      232,690       164,885
other declarations of liability                                                           334             2,207       50,758            9,339
total                                                                                   49,356           23,815      289,830       174,693
 thereof attributable to gea heat exchangers                                            34,151                –      108,045               –
 thereof attributable to lurgi/lentjes                                                   2,914            9,953      171,497       157,683



a significant proportion of the bank guarantees and most of the group guarantees are attributable to
the sold gea heat exchangers segment, as well as to lurgi and lentjes (see section 3).

the other guarantees relate mainly to customers of unconsolidated companies and to banks. the
beneficiaries are entitled to asset claims under the guarantees if the primary debtor fails to meet its
contractual obligations, for example, in the case of late or defective delivery, noncompliance with
warranted performance parameters, or failure to repay loans in accordance with the contractual
requirements.

the guarantees include contingent liabilities of eur 3,461 thousand resulting from joint ventures
(previous year: eur 9,818 thousand); there is no further liability above and beyond this.
all guarantees issued by or on the instructions of gea group aktiengesellschaft are issued on behalf
of and with recourse against the relevant primary debtor.

in addition to the liability risks resulting from bank and group guarantees, there are risks in particular
from court, arbitration, or out-of-court disputes (see section 9.4) that could result in cash outflows.




                                                      gea group annual report 2014                                                              205

                                             notes to the consolidated financial statements /
                                contingent liabilities, other financial obligations, contingent assets, and litigation




      8.2           other financial obligations
      the other financial obligations of the group as a whole as of december 31, 2014, are composed of the
      following items:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                              12/31/2014      12/31/2013
      rental and lease obligations                                                                                  103,221         160,604
      purchase commitments                                                                                          105,325         297,499
      total                                                                                                         208,546         458,103


      rental and lease agreements
      the obligations under rental and lease agreements of the group as a whole amount to
      eur 103,221 thousand (previous year: eur 160,604 thousand) and relate primarily to land and
      buildings, and to a lesser extent to technical equipment and machinery. the leases run until no later
      than 2031 (previous year: 2031). payments are spread over future fiscal years as follows:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                              12/31/2014      12/31/2013
      not later than one year                                                                                            33,992      47,980
      between one and five years                                                                                     50,416          79,896
      later than five years                                                                                          18,813          32,728
      total                                                                                                         103,221         160,604



      the expenses related to rental and lease agreements of the group as a whole in fiscal year 2014 amounted
      to eur 45,593 thousand (previous year: eur 88,361 thousand). of this amount, eur 18,014 thousand
      (previous year: eur 23,621 thousand) was attributable to variable rents, which are primarily adjusted
      based on consumer price indexes. subleases resulted in income of eur 1,562 thousand for the group as a
      whole in the fiscal year (previous year: eur 2,011 thousand). these subleases give rise to claims for rental
      income of eur 721 thousand (previous year: eur 764 thousand) over the coming years.

      sale and leaseback transactions relating to buildings resulted in future payments for the group as a
      whole of eur 32,286 thousand at the reporting date (previous year: eur 29,124 thousand).

      purchase commitments
      eur 105,299 thousand (previous year: eur 293,958 thousand) of the purchase commitments is
      attributable to inventories.

      8.3           contingent assets
      with regard to the proceedings against u.s. company flex-n-gate corp., the court of arbitration in fiscal
      year 2010 ordered flex-n-gate to compensate gea group aktiengesellschaft for losses incurred as a
      result of the collapse of the sale of the dynamit nobel plastics business to flex-n-gate in the fall of 2004.
      the award was overturned by the higher regional court in frankfurt in 2011. in its decision dated
      october 2, 2012, the german federal court of justice dismissed gea group aktiengesellschaft’s appeal
      against the decision. the company then decided to continue the arbitration proceedings against flex-n-
      gate and filed a corresponding application with the deutsche institution für schiedsgerichtsbarkeit (dis
      – german institution of arbitration) on december 21, 2012.




206                                                      gea group annual report 2014

                              notes to the consolidated financial statements /
                 contingent liabilities, other financial obligations, contingent assets, and litigation




8.4     litigation

dörries scharmann ag insolvency proceedings
an action brought by the insolvency administrator of dörries scharmann ag against gea group
aktiengesellschaft is pending at the düsseldorf regional court. the former metallgesellschaft ag, the
legal predecessor to gea group aktiengesellschaft, held an interest in schiess ag, which later became
dörries scharmann ag. on the basis of that interest, the insolvency administrator is asserting various
claims under company law, in particular for equity substitution, which amount to approximately
eur 20 million including possible interest. gea group aktiengesellschaft considers the claims that
have been asserted to be unfounded. after the senior expert appointed by the court to decide matters
relating to equity substitution fully confirmed gea group aktiengesellschaft’s opinion, the higher
regional court in düsseldorf upheld a motion by the insolvency administrator to disqualify this expert
in a ruling issued on november 27, 2012. how the regional court will proceed in this matter is
currently unknown. gea group aktiengesellschaft will continue to defend itself against all claims.

general
further legal proceedings or official investigations have been or may be instituted against gea group
companies as a result of earlier business disposals and operating activities.

adequate provisions have been recognized for all risks arising from both the legal disputes described
above and other legal disputes being pursued by gea group in the course of its ordinary operating
activities. however, the outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty.
it is therefore possible that the conclusion of the proceedings may result in expenses that exceed the
amounts that may have been set aside for them.




                                           gea group annual report 2014                                   207

                           notes to the consolidated financial statements / segment reporting




      9.       segment reporting
      9.1      change in the structure of the operating segments
      in january 2014, the executive board of gea group aktiengesellschaft decided to combine its operating
      segments gea food solutions and gea mechanical equipment effective as of the beginning of fiscal
      year 2014. production of machinery for preparing, marinating, processing, cutting, and packaging
      meat, poultry, fish, cheese, and other foods, which formed part of the gea food solutions segment, is
      now combined with the activities of gea mechanical equipment in a single segment so as to better
      exploit existing synergies.

      the group’s operating segments were therefore reorganized in the reporting period: since the
      beginning of 2014, gea food solutions has no longer been one of gea group’s operating segments.
      the activities of the former gea food solutions and gea mechanical equipment segments are now
      reported together under the segment name gea mechanical equipment. the prior-period information
      was adjusted to reflect the amended reporting structure.

      9.2      operating segments
      gea group’s business activities are divided into the following six operating segments:

      gea farm technologies segment (gea ft)
      gea farm technologies is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of integrated product solutions
      for profitable milk production and livestock farming. the segment’s combined expertise in the areas
      of milking and milk-cooling technology, automatic feeding systems, manure management systems,
      and barn equipment provides modern farming with a complete range of products and solutions.
      services and animal hygiene solutions round off its profile as a full-line systems provider for farms of
      all sizes. the segment’s sales strategy is built upon a global network of specialist dealers and sales and
      service partners.

      gea heat exchangers segment (gea hx)
      gea heat exchangers provides products and systems for numerous areas of use, ranging from air
      conditioning systems to cooling towers, boasting what is probably the largest portfolio of heat exchangers
      worldwide. the segment supplies optimal single-source solutions for a large number of applications and
      also offers customers professional support with project planning. the gea heat exchangers segment
      was allocated to discontinued operations at the end of fiscal year 2013. the transaction closed successfully
      on october 31, 2014 (see section 4).

      gea mechanical equipment segment (gea me)
      gea mechanical equipment specializes in separators, decanters, valves, pumps, and homogenizers –
      high-quality process engineering components that ensure seamless processes and cost-effective
      production in almost all major areas of industry worldwide. process technology for secondary food
      processing and packaging extends the product portfolio, with the offering ranging from individual
      machines to end-to-end production lines. such equipment contributes to ensuring high product quality,
      reducing customer production costs, and protecting the environment in a sustainable manner.




208                                          gea group annual report 2014

                     notes to the consolidated financial statements / segment reporting




gea process engineering segment (gea pe)
gea process engineering specializes in the design and development of process solutions for the dairy,
brewing, food, pharma, and chemical industries. the segment is an acknowledged market and
technology leader in its business areas: liquid processing, concentration, industrial drying, powder
processing and handling, and emission control.

gea refrigeration technologies segment (gea rt)
gea refrigeration technologies is a market leader in the field of industrial refrigeration technology. the
segment develops, manufactures, and installs innovative key components and technical solutions for its
customers. its product range comprises the following core components: reciprocating and screw
compressors, valves, chillers, ice generators, and freezing systems. to ensure complete customer
satisfaction, gea refrigeration technologies also offers a broad range of maintenance and other services.

other
the “other” segment comprises the companies with business activities that do not form part of the
core business. in addition to the holding and service companies, it contains companies that report
investment property held for sale, and pension obligations.

9.3      presentation of segment reporting
the figures for the segments attributable to continuing operations are presented first in segment
reporting. these are then aggregated in the consolidated balance sheet and the income statement
following consolidation and reclassifications in the “gea group” column. the “gea hx” column
contains the figures for the gea hx segment, which has been allocated to discontinued operations.
these are adjusted for consolidation adjustments and reclassifications and are aggregated in the group
figures for all segments in the “gea group including gea hx” column. depreciation and amortization
of non-current assets, which under ifrs 5 must cease as of the date of classification as held for sale, are
included for the gea hx disposal group in the amount of eur 30.0 million in the “gea hx” and “gea
group incl. gea hx” columns.




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                           209

                                              notes to the consolidated financial statements / segment reporting




                                                                                              consolidation/                          consolidation/       gea group
(eur million)                                 gea ft   gea me    gea pe    gea rt    other    reclassification gea group   gea hx 1   reclassification   incl. gea hx

01/01/2014 - 12/31/2014
order intake 2                                 659.0   1,349.8   1,835.7    804.7        –          –129.7       4,519.6    1,170.1            –30.2          5,659.6
external revenue                               647.9   1,261.7   1,849.5    756.7        –                –      4,515.7    1,145.0              –0.5         5,660.6
intersegment revenue                             2.1    118.8        2.6      7.1        –          –130.6            –        28.0            –28.0               –
total revenue                                  650.0   1,380.4   1,852.1    763.7        –          –130.6       4,515.7    1,173.0            –28.0          5,660.6
share of profit or loss of equity-accounted
investments                                      0.4        –         –       1.4       0.6               –          2.4       –0.1                 –             2.2
operating ebitda 3                              74.5    231.6     220.6      89.7    –25.7                –       590.7       116.7              –0.8          706.6
 as % of revenue                                11.5     16.8      11.9      11.7        –                –        13.1        10.0                 –           12.5
ebitda pre ppa                                  71.5    224.5     220.6      88.0    –64.7                –       539.9       115.1            –10.3           644.8
ebitda                                          71.5    224.5     220.6      88.0    –64.7                –       539.9       115.1            –10.3           644.8
operating ebit 3                                62.0    197.7     206.0      79.8    –32.0                –       513.5        88.8              –2.3          600.0
 as % of revenue                                 9.5     14.3      11.1      10.5        –                –        11.4         7.6                 –           10.6
ebit pre ppa                                    59.0    190.6     205.9      78.2    –71.0                –       462.8        87.2            –11.8           538.2
 as % of revenue                                 9.1     13.8      11.1      10.2        –                –        10.2         7.4                 –             9.5
ebit                                            56.0    175.3     203.2      76.2    –70.9                –       439.9        85.1            –11.8           513.2
 as % of revenue                                 8.6     12.7      11.0      10.0        –                –          9.7        7.3                 –             9.1
roce in % 4                                     17.1     17.0      78.8      28.9        –                –        22.6        14.3                 –           20.9
interest income                                  1.3       1.9       4.4      0.9     22.4            –23.8          7.1        1.4              –0.1             8.3
interest expense                                11.8     15.0        6.9      4.7     55.9            –21.2        73.1         5.5              –1.9           76.6
ebt                                             45.5    162.2     200.7      72.3   –107.0                –       373.8        81.1            –10.0           444.9
income taxes                                    11.0     41.4      49.8      14.9    –27.1             –2.1        87.8        22.8              –7.8          102.9
profit or loss from discontinued operations        –        –        0.2     –5.3     23.9             15.7        34.6           –            –32.8              1.8
segment assets                                 673.2   2,590.2   1,776.5    974.9   4,585.8        –4,768.6      5,832.0          –               0.0         5,832.0
 thereof reclassification gea hx                   –        –         –         –        –                –           –           –                 –              –
segment liabilities                            363.6   1,144.9   1,107.1    725.6   2,871.9        –2,908.3      3,304.8          –               0.0         3,304.8
 thereof reclassification gea hx                   –        –         –         –        –                –           –           –                 –              –
carrying amount of equity-accounted
investments                                      6.9        –        2.1      2.7       3.6               –        15.3           –                 –            15.3
working capital (reporting date) 5             142.1    301.8     –78.8      79.6    –18.3             –2.0       424.4          –                  –          424.4
additions in property, plant, and
equipment, intangible assets, and
goodwill                                        18.1     42.5      21.5      15.5     11.0             –0.5       108.3        19.0              –0.1          127.1
depreciation and amortization                   15.6     49.0      17.8      11.8       6.3            –0.1       100.3        30.1               0.0          130.4
impairment losses                                  –       0.3        –       0.2        –                –          0.4       22.4               1.5           24.3
additions to provisions                         39.5    102.8      89.0      40.9    115.0                –       387.2        71.6                 –          458.7




       210                                                       gea group annual report 2014

                                                         notes to the consolidated financial statements / segment reporting




                                                                                                                                     consolidation/                                          consolidation/         gea group
(eur million)                                             gea ft         gea me          gea pe         gea rt            other      reclassification gea group               gea hx 1       reclassification     incl. gea hx

01/01/2013 - 12/31/2013
order intake 2                                             596.7         1,368.2        2,061.0           726.3                 –              –124.3           4,627.9         1,500.3                  –35.4         6,092.7
external revenue                                           577.3         1,212.5        1,798.1           732.0                 –                     –         4,320.0         1,452.2                      –         5,772.2
intersegment revenue                                           0.3          115.2            –0.2             4.6               –              –120.0                   –           36.8                 –36.8               –
total revenue                                              577.7         1,327.8        1,798.0           736.6                 –              –120.0           4,320.0         1,489.1                  –36.8         5,772.2
share of profit or loss of equity-accounted
investments                                                    0.3                –          –0.1             1.2            0.5                      –               1.9            0.6                     –              2.6
operating ebitda 3                                           56.9           214.7          203.2            71.0          –15.7                       –           530.1           158.2                    –0.1           688.3
 as % of revenue                                               9.9           16.2           11.3              9.6               –                     –             12.3            10.6                     –             11.9
ebitda pre ppa                                               56.9           214.7          203.2            71.0          –30.3                       –           515.5           155.2                  –10.6            660.1
ebitda                                                       56.7           214.7          203.2            71.0          –30.3                       –           515.2           155.2                  –10.6            659.8
operating ebit 3                                             44.6           187.6          188.3            61.5          –23.2                       –           458.8           123.3                    –0.1           582.1
 as % of revenue                                               7.7           14.1           10.5              8.4               –                     –             10.6             8.3                     –             10.1
ebit pre ppa                                                 44.6           187.6          188.3            61.5          –37.8                       –           444.2           120.3                  –10.5            553.9
 as % of revenue                                               7.7           14.1           10.5              8.4               –                     –             10.3             8.1                     –              9.6
ebit                                                         41.2           171.7          185.7            59.0          –38.0                       –           419.6           116.0                  –10.5            525.0
 as % of revenue                                               7.1           12.9           10.3              8.0               –                     –               9.7            7.8                     –              9.1
roce in % 4                                                  12.7            17.4           73.2            22.7                –                     –             22.1            18.3                     –             20.8
interest income                                                1.2             1.4            3.5             1.3           42.7                –41.2                 8.9            8.5                   –6.0            11.4
interest expense                                             12.4            19.2             8.8             7.1           60.2                –31.3               76.4            18.8                 –15.9             79.3
ebt                                                          30.0           153.9          180.4            53.2          –65.3                       –            352.1          105.6                    –0.7           457.1
income taxes                                                   5.5           27.4           47.4            13.4            –4.3                –19.4               70.1            27.6                  23.5            121.2
profit or loss from discontinued operations                      –                –              –              –         –11.5                   65.9              54.4                –                –53.8              0.6
segment assets                                             630.3         1,961.3        1,719.7           968.2         3,883.8             –2,698.6            6,464.6         1,838.3                –1,838.3        6,464.6
 thereof reclassification gea hx                                 –                –              –              –               –             1,593.0                   –       1,593.0                –1,593.0              –
segment liabilities                                        327.6            962.2       1,084.2           496.8         3,387.9             –2,109.7            4,148.9           915.8                 –915.8         4,148.9
 thereof reclassification gea hx                                 –                –              –              –               –               619.9                   –         619.9                 –619.9               –
carrying amount of equity-accounted
investments                                                    6.2                –           2.2             2.3            3.0                      –             13.7             6.5                     –             20.2
working capital (reporting date) 5                         135.2            258.7        –113.5             93.2          –14.5                    4.1            363.3           173.2                    –5.3           531.1
additions in property, plant, and
equipment, intangible assets, and
goodwill                                                     14.4            69.5           16.1            14.2             7.9                      –           122.0             40.2                   –7.7           154.5
depreciation and amortization                                15.2            43.0           17.4            11.6             7.8                  –0.1              94.9            37.5                   –0.0           132.4
impairment losses                                              0.3                –              –            0.4               –                     –               0.7            2.1                     –              2.8
additions to provisions                                      18.6            54.3           75.9            33.3            56.7                  –0.0             238.6            79.3                   –0.0           317.8

1) assigned to discontinued operations; included until disposal 10/31/2014
2) unaudited supplemental information
3) before effects of purchase price allocations from revalued assets and liabilities and in 2012 before one-offs from gea food solutions
4) roce = ebit in the past 12 months / (capital employed - goodwill from the acquisition of the former gea ag by the former metallgesellschaft in 1999 (both at average of the past twelve months));
   capital employed = non-current assets + working capital
5) working capital = inventories + trade receivables - trade payables - advance payments received




                                                                                         gea group annual report 2014                                                                                               211

                                          notes to the consolidated financial statements / segment reporting




      consolidation primarily comprises the elimination of intercompany revenue and interest income and
      expense. intersegment revenue is calculated using standard market prices.

      revenues
      (eur million)                                                                                                                     2014      2013 *

      revenues from construction contracts
      gea heat exchangers                                                                                                              379.8      477.9
      gea mechanical equipment                                                                                                         338.6      256.8
      gea process engineering                                                                                                         1,539.8    1,512.2
      gea refrigeration technologies                                                                                                   336.5      336.8
      other and consolidation                                                                                                            –8.9       –8.4
      total revenue from construction contracts                                                                                      2,585.8    2,575.2

      revenues components
      gea farm technologies                                                                                                            381.1      342.8
      gea heat exchangers                                                                                                              636.3      833.0
      gea mechanical equipment                                                                                                         549.1      605.1
      gea process engineering                                                                                                           42.2       33.5
      gea refrigeration technologies                                                                                                   212.6      199.9
      other and consolidation                                                                                                         –125.8     –148.5
      total revenues components                                                                                                      1,695.5    1,865.8

      total revenues from service agreements
      gea farm technologies                                                                                                            268.9      234.9
      gea heat exchangers                                                                                                              156.8      178.2
      gea mechanical equipment                                                                                                         492.7      465.8
      gea process engineering                                                                                                          269.6      252.3
      gea refrigeration technologies                                                                                                   214.6      200.0
      other and consolidation                                                                                                          –23.4          –
      total revenue from service agreements                                                                                          1,379.3    1,331.2
      total revenue                                                                                                                  5,660.6    5,772.2

      *) amounts adjusted due to the combination of gea food solutions and gea mechanical equipment (see financial report q1 2014)



      reconciliation of revenues according to segment reporting to revenues
      (eur million)                                                                                                                     2014       2013
      revenues gea incl. gea hx                                                                                                      5,660.6    5,772.2
       less revenues gea hx                                                                                                          –1,173.0   –1,489.1
       plus revenues gea hx with continued operations                                                                                   28.0       36.8
      revenues                                                                                                                       4,515.7    4,320.0


      the segment asset recognition and measurement policies are the same as those used in the group and
      described in the accounting policies section. the profitability of the individual group segments is
      measured using “earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, and amortization” (ebitda), “earnings
      before interest and tax” (ebit), and “profit or loss before tax” (ebt) as presented in the income
      statement, irrespective of reclassification to profit or loss from discontinued operations.

      impairment losses include all impairment losses on property, plant, and equipment, intangible assets,
      and investment property.

      when calculating operating ebit, management also adjusts the figure for earnings effects that it
      believes will not be incurred to the same extent in future fiscal years (“nonrecurring items”.) operating
      ebit for fiscal year 2014 was thus adjusted for nonrecurring items totaling eur 50.7 million (previous




212                                                                     gea group annual report 2014

                               notes to the consolidated financial statements / segment reporting




year: eur 14.6 million). nonrecurring items comprise eur 36.4 million (previous year: eur 8.0 million)
of expenses for strategic projects, personnel expenses of eur 11.7 million for employees who left the
company and were not replaced, and income of eur 1.3 million (previous year: eur 0.0 million) from
the remeasurement of non-current provisions relating to former business activities. the expense
arising from the allocation in accordance with ifrs 5 of management and trademark fees totaling
eur 3.9 million (previous year: eur 6.6 million) to continuing operations, i.e. to the other segments
including the holding company, was also identified as a non-recurring item. profit or loss from
discontinued operations includes nonrecurring expenses in the total amount of eur 56.7 million
(previous year: eur 20.2 million.) these consist of the loss on the disposal and adjustment of the
gea hx disposal group amounting to eur 41.8 million recognized in the reporting period (previous
year: eur 0.0 million), nonrecurring expenses of eur 13.3 million (previous year: eur 17.5 million) in
connection with preparations for the separation of the gea hx segment, as well as nonrecurring
expenses due to capacity adjustment measures totaling eur 1.6 million (previous year: eur 2.7 million).


reconciliation of operating ebitda according to segment reporting to ebit
(eur million)                                                                                                    2014     2013
operating ebitda gea incl. gea hx                                                                               706.6    688.3
depreciation of property, plant, and equipment, investment property, and amortization of intangible assets      –106.7   –105.9
other impairment losses and reversals of impairment losses                                                         0.1     –0.3
operating ebit gea incl. gea hx                                                                                 600.0    582.1
depreciation and amortization on capitalization of purchase price allocation                                     –25.1    –26.5
impairment losses on capitalization of purchase price allocation                                                    –      –2.1
realization of step-up amounts on inventories                                                                       –      –0.3
one-offs                                                                                                         –61.7    –28.2
ebit gea incl. gea hx                                                                                           513.2    525.0
 less ebit gea hx                                                                                                –85.1   –116.0
consolidation                                                                                                     11.8     10.5
ebit                                                                                                            439.9    419.6



reconciliation of ebitda according to segment reporting to ebitda
(eur million)                                                                                                    2014     2013
ebitda gea incl. gea hx                                                                                         644.8    659.8
 less ebitda gea hx                                                                                             –115.1   –155.2
consolidation                                                                                                     10.3     10.6
ebitda                                                                                                          539.9    515.2



the following table shows the reconciliation of ebitda to ebit:

reconciliation of ebitda to ebit
(eur million)                                                                                                    2014     2013
ebitda                                                                                                          539.9    515.2
depreciation of property, plant and equipment, and investment property, and amortization of intangible assets
(see notes 5.1, 5.2, 5.4)                                                                                       –100.3   –132.4
impairment losses and reversal of impairment losses on property, plant, and equipment, investment property,
intangible assets, and goodwill (see notes 5.1, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4)                                                     0.3     –2.2
impairment losses on non-current financial assets                                                                   –      –0.3
plus depreciation, amortization and impairment losses contained in profit from discontinued operations              –      39.2
ebit                                                                                                            439.9    419.6




                                                          gea group annual report 2014                                            213

                                       notes to the consolidated financial statements / segment reporting




      the following table shows the reconciliation of working capital to total assets:

      reconciliation of working capital to total assets
      (eur million)                                                                                                      12/31/2014            12/31/2013
      working capital (reporting date) gea incl. gea hx                                                                         424.4              531.1
      working capital (reporting date) of ruhr-zink                                                                               –0.2               –0.0
      non-current assets                                                                                                       2,714.8            2,577.8
      income tax receivables                                                                                                     17.5                 8.3
      other current financial assets                                                                                            390.6              108.9
      cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                1,195.9             683.5
      assets held for sale                                                                                                         5.6            1,605.8
       plus trade payables                                                                                                      639.7              646.5
       plus advance payments in respect of orders and construction contracts                                                    188.8              177.4
       plus gross amount due to customers for contract work                                                                     254.9              293.0
       minus working capital held for sale (reporting date) gea hx                                                                  –             –173.2
      consolidation                                                                                                                 –                 5.3
      total assets                                                                                                             5,832.0            6,464.6




      9.4              disclosures by geographic region
      in the presentation of segment disclosures by geographic region, revenue is allocated by the destination
      of the goods or place of performance of the services, or by customer domicile. assets are allocated by
      their location. the figures quoted relate to the group as a whole.

                                                                         europe
                                                                      (excluding        north      latin   middle     asia/
      (eur millions)                                          germany germany)         america   america     east    pacific        africa          total

      01/01/2014 - 12/31/2014
      external revenue                                           595.1     2,064.8      906.9     320.9    249.8    1,300.4         222.6         5,660.6
      non-current assets (property, plant and equipment,
      intangible assets, and investment property)              1,142.3         702.9    186.6        3.4      0.3    130.6               0.6      2,166.8

      01/01/2013 - 12/31/2013
      external revenue                                           599.1     2,072.2      845.1     348.8    306.5    1,369.7         230.7         5,772.2
      non-current assets (property, plant and equipment,
      intangible assets, and investment property)              1,651.9         914.4    213.6        6.1      2.9    168.6               3.7      2,961.1



      in the reporting period, revenue of eur 844.7 million (previous year: eur 788.7 million) was
      attributable to the united states of america and eur 534.4 million (previous year: eur 622.6 million)
      was attributable to the people’s republic of china. the carrying amounts of non-current assets
      (property, plant, and equipment, intangible assets, and investment property) in the netherlands
      amounted to eur 430.5 million (previous year: eur 490.7 million) as of the reporting date. there are
      no relationships with individual customers whose revenue can be considered material in comparison
      to total group revenue.




214                                                           gea group annual report 2014

                              notes to the consolidated financial statements / other disclosures




10.          other disclosures
10.1 cash flow disclosures
cash flow from discontinued operations mainly comprises the aggregate net cash flow of the gea hx
segment until the sale was completed on october 31, 2014, and the cash flow from its disposal. cash flow
from operating activities includes outflows of eur 5,409 thousand (previous year: eur 10,885 thousand)
from other discontinued operations. cash flow from investing activities also includes outflows of eur
7,833 thousand (previous year: eur 48,007 thousand) from the sale of other discontinued operations.
these outflows relate to payments linked to the sale of business activities in previous periods.

10.2 government grants
government grants related to income amounting to eur 842 thousand were received in fiscal year
2014 (previous year: eur 1,587 thousand). of this amount, grants related to assets of eur 364 thousand
(previous year: eur 164 thousand) were deducted from the carrying amounts of the assets concerned.
in fiscal year 2014, expenses of eur 0 thousand (previous year: eur 295 thousand) were incurred for
the potential repayment of grants received.



10.3 related party disclosures

10.3.1 related party transactions
transactions between gea group aktiengesellschaft and its consolidated subsidiaries have been
eliminated in the course of consolidation. revenue and expenses from transactions between continuing
and discontinued operations were not eliminated if they will continue to be incurred following the
disposal of the discontinued operation.

transactions with unconsolidated subsidiaries and joint ventures mainly relate to regular deliveries of
goods and services. income and expenses from transactions between the group as a whole and these
companies are composed of the following items:


(eur thousand)                                                                      revenue   other income   other expenses

01/01/2014 - 12/31/2014
unconsolidated subsidiaries                                                          55,324         1,482            2,993
joint ventures                                                                        8,119             –                –
total                                                                                63,443         1,482            2,993

01/01/2013 - 12/31/2013
unconsolidated subsidiaries                                                          64,876         1,000            4,164
joint ventures                                                                       17,447             7                –
total                                                                                82,323         1,007            4,164




                                                gea group annual report 2014                                                  215

                                     notes to the consolidated financial statements / other disclosures




      related party transactions resulted in the following outstanding items in the group as a whole as of
      december 31, 2014:


      (eur thousand)                                               trade receivables   trade payables   other receivables     other liabilities

      12/31/2014
      unconsolidated subsidiaries                                           10,639             8,066             18,140               25,285
      joint ventures                                                          2,870                –                   –                     –
      total                                                                 13,509             8,066             18,140               25,285
       thereof current                                                      13,509             8,066             16,740               25,285

      12/31/2013
      unconsolidated subsidiaries                                           18,836             5,723               8,274              23,362
      joint ventures                                                          3,232              396                 425                     –
      total                                                                 22,068             6,119               8,699              23,362
       thereof current                                                      22,068             6,119               8,569              23,362



      the outstanding amounts will be settled by bank transfer and are unsecured.

      10.3.2 remuneration of the executive board and the supervisory board
      the executive board and supervisory board of gea group aktiengesellschaft received total
      remuneration of eur 9,349 thousand in fiscal year 2014 (previous year: eur 12,277 thousand). this is
      composed of the following components:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                                  2014              2013
      short-term employee benefits                                                                                    7,205             6,581
      post-employment benefits                                                                                        1,208             2,582
      share-based payments                                                                                              936             3,114
      total                                                                                                           9,349           12,277



      former executive board members and their surviving dependents received remuneration from the
      gea group amounting to eur 5,168 thousand (previous year: eur 5,129 thousand). pension provisions
      were recognized for former executive board members and their surviving dependents in accordance
      with ifrss totaling eur 64,494 thousand (previous year: eur 61,715 thousand).

      in fiscal 2014, the expenses incurred for the supervisory board amounted to eur 1,159 thousand
      (previous year eur 1,168 thousand).

      other information on the remuneration of the executive board and the supervisory board can be
      found in the remuneration report.

      there were no other transactions by members of the executive board or supervisory board or their
      related parties in either the reporting or the comparative period.




216                                                   gea group annual report 2014

                             konzernanhang / events after balance sheet date




11.             events after balance sheet date
11.1 acquisition
on january 2, 2015, gea group completed the acquisition of dutch group de klokslag. all shares of the
companies de klokslag automatisierung b.v., de klokslag engineering b.v., and de klokslag machine­
fabrik b.v. were acquired. in addition, rights to certain technologies were individually acquired.

the de klokslag group companies are among the leading manufacturers of large-scale equipment for
semi-hard cheese production and have been allocated to the process engineering segment. as a result
of this acquisition, gea is now a full solution provider in this growing segment of the milk industry.

the transaction costs incurred in the reporting period amounted to eur 400 thousand. the transaction
costs associated with the acquisition are reported in other expenses.

the purchase price of eur 29,907 thousand includes a contingent purchase consideration, the fair
value of which was eur 3,000 thousand at the acquisition date. the amount of the contingent purchase
consideration is dependent on the consolidated earnings before interest and tax of the de klokslag
companies in fiscal years 2015 to 2017, which must exceed a specified minimum amount for payment
to be made. based on the business plans, it is expected that the maximum amount will be payable.

the following assets were acquired and liabilities assumed through the acquisition of the de klokslag
group:

fair value
(eur thousand)
total assets                                                                                    33,933
total liabilities                                                                               10,635
net assets acquired                                                                             23,298
acquisition cost                                                                                29,907
goodwill                                                                                         6,609



purchase price allocation with respect to the identification and measurement of the assets acquired
and liabilities assumed is provisional.

the goodwill arising from the acquisition in the expected amount of eur 6,609 thousand is attributable
to the strengthening of gea group’s general competitive position, advantages from expected synergies
and future market developments, and the expertise of the workforce.

in fiscal year 2014, an advance payment of eur 25 million was made against the purchase price. this
payment is reported in the cash flow statement under cash flow from investing activities.

11.2 repayments of financial debt
on january 14, 2015, eur 100,000 thousand of a loan from the european investment bank (eib) was
repaid ahead of schedule.




                                     gea group annual report 2014                                        217

                                                      notes to the consolidated financial statements /
                                               supplemental disclosures in accordance with section 315a of the hgb




      12.             supplemental disclosures in accordance with
                      section 315a of the hgb
      12.1 declaration on the corporate governance code
      the executive board and the supervisory board issued an updated declaration of conformity in
      accordance with section 161 of the aktiengesetz (aktg – german stock corporation act) on
      december 18, 2014, and made it permanently available to the shareholders on the company’s website.

      12.2 number of employees
      the average number of employees during the year was as follows:


      average number of employees during the year *                                                                   2014     2013
      hourly workers                                                                                                  6,275    6,129
      salaried employees                                                                                             11,902   11,411
      continuing operations                                                                                          18,177   17,540
      hourly workers                                                                                                  2,396    3,174
      salaried employees                                                                                              3,011    4,085
      discontinued operations                                                                                         5,407    7,259
      total                                                                                                          23,584   24,799

      *) full-time equivalents (ftes) excluding vocational trainees and inactive employment contracts


      the number of employees at the reporting date was as follows:


      employees at reporting date *                                                                                   2014     2013
      hourly workers                                                                                                  6,297    6,178
      salaried employees                                                                                             11,946   11,572
      continuing operations                                                                                          18,243   17,750
      hourly workers                                                                                                     4     3,166
      salaried employees                                                                                                  –    4,038
      discontinued operations                                                                                            4     7,204
      total                                                                                                          18,247   24,954

      *) full-time equivalents (ftes) excluding vocational trainees and inactive employment contracts




      12.3 audit and consulting fees
      the fees charged worldwide by the auditors of the consolidated financial statements, kpmg ag
      wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, for fiscal year 2014 are broken down as follows:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                                  2014     2013
      audit                                                                                                           4,284    4,901
      other audit related services                                                                                    1,095     423
      tax consulting services                                                                                         1,148     954
      other services                                                                                                   692      868
      total                                                                                                           7,219    7,146



      in fiscal year 2014, fees for other assurance services amounting to eur 780 thousand were attributable
      to assurance services in connection with the financing of the purchase price for the gea hx segment
      by the purchaser. economically, these expenses were borne by the purchaser in accordance with the
      purchase price mechanism (see section 4).

      eur 90 thousand of the fees listed for audits in fiscal 2014 is attributable to the audit of the 2013
      consolidated financial statements.



218                                                                          gea group annual report 2014

                                                       notes to the consolidated financial statements /
                                                supplemental disclosures in accordance with section 315a of the hgb




12.4 investments
the following list shows all subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures. with the exception of other equity investments
within the meaning of section 313(2) no. 4 of the hgb, it does not contain investments in companies that gea group neither
controls nor over which it can exercise significant influence.

company                                                                    head office                      country          shares %
subsidiary
„semenowsky val“ immobilien- verwaltungs-gmbh                              bochum                           germany            100.00
beijing tetra laval food machinery company limited i.l.                    beijing                          china                  90.00
bock australia pty. ltd.                                                   banksmeadow, new south wales     australia          100.00
breconcherry ltd.                                                          bromyard, herefordshire          great britain      100.00
brouwers equipment b.v.                                                    leeuwarden                       netherlands        100.00
brückenbau plauen gmbh                                                     frankfurt am main                germany            100.00
cfs asia ltd.                                                              bangna, bangkok                  thailand          99.9998
convenience food systems s.a. de c.v.                                      mexico-city                      mexico             100.00
dairy technology services pty limited                                      kyabram, victoria                australia          100.00
de gea westfalia separator ukraine                                         kiev                             ukraine            100.00
dixie-union (uk) ltd.                                                      old wolverton                    great britain      100.00
farmers industries limited                                                 mt. maunganui south, tauranga    new zealand        100.00
gea (philippines) inc.                                                     manila                           philippines        100.00
gea (shanghai) farm technologies company ltd.                              shanghai                         china              100.00
gea andina s.a.s.                                                          bogota d.c.                      colombia           100.00
gea aseptomag ag                                                           kirchberg                        switzerland        100.00
gea aseptomag holding ag                                                   kirchberg                        switzerland        100.00
gea atg uk holdings limited i.l.                                           cheshire, warrington             great britain      100.00
gea avapac ltd.                                                            hamilton                         new zealand        100.00
gea awp gmbh                                                               prenzlau                         germany            100.00
gea barr-rosin ltd.                                                        maidenhead, berkshire            great britain      100.00
gea beteiligungsgesellschaft ag                                            bochum                           germany            100.00
gea beteiligungsgesellschaft i mbh                                         bochum                           germany            100.00
gea beteiligungsgesellschaft ii mbh                                        düsseldorf                       germany            100.00
gea beteiligungsgesellschaft iii mbh                                       düsseldorf                       germany            100.00
gea bischoff gmbh                                                          essen                            germany            100.00
gea bischoff oy                                                            helsinki                         finland            100.00
gea bock (thailand) co., ltd.                                              bangkok                          thailand           49,00 *
gea bock compressors (hangzhou) co., ltd.                                  hangzhou, zhejiang               china              100.00
gea bock czech s.r.o.                                                      stribro                          czech republik     100.00
gea bock gmbh                                                              frickenhausen                    germany            100.00
gea brewery systems gmbh                                                   kitzingen                        germany            100.00
gea canada inc.                                                            lethbridge, alberta              canada             100.00
gea cee gmbh                                                               wien                             austria            100.00
gea central america s.a.                                                   panama                           panama             100.00
gea colby pty. ltd.                                                        sydney                           australia          100.00
gea diessel gmbh                                                           hildesheim                       germany            100.00
gea dutch holding b.v.                                                     ’s-hertogenbosch                 netherlands        100.00
gea energietechnik anlagen- und betriebs-gmbh                              bochum                           germany            100.00
gea engenharia de processos e sistemas industriais ltda.                   campinas, sao paulo              brazil             100.00
gea equipamentos e soluções s.a.                                           jaguariúna                       brazil             100.00
gea erste kapitalbeteiligungen gmbh & co. kg                               bochum                           germany            100.00
gea eurotek ltd.                                                           aylsham                          great britain      100.00
gea exergy ab                                                              göteborg                         sweden             100.00
gea farm technologies (ireland) ltd.                                       cork                             ireland            100.00
gea farm technologies (uk) limited                                         warminster                       great britain      100.00
gea farm technologies acier sas                                            château-thierry                  france             100.00
gea farm technologies argentina s.r.l.                                     buenos aires                     argentina          100.00
gea farm technologies australia pty. ltd.                                  tullamarine, victoria            australia          100.00
gea farm technologies austria gmbh                                         plainfeld                        austria            100.00
gea farm technologies belgium n.v.                                         olen                             belgium            100.00
gea farm technologies bulgaria eood                                        sofia                            bulgaria           100.00


*) 51% of voting rights




                                                                  gea group annual report 2014                               219

                                                      notes to the consolidated financial statements /
                                               supplemental disclosures in accordance with section 315a of the hgb




company                                                                     head office                    country                shares %
gea farm technologies canada inc.                                           drummondville, quebec          canada                   100.00
gea farm technologies chile spa                                             osorno                         chile                    100.00
gea farm technologies croatia d.o.o.                                        dugo selo                      croatia                  100.00
gea farm technologies cz, spol. s.r.o.                                      napajedla                      czech republik           100.00
gea farm technologies france sas                                            château-thierry                france                   100.00
gea farm technologies gmbh                                                  bönen                          germany                  100.00
gea farm technologies ibérica s.l.                                          granollers                     spain                    100.00
gea farm technologies japy sas                                              saint-apollinaire              france                   100.00
gea farm technologies mullerup a/s                                          ullerslev                      denmark                  100.00
gea farm technologies nederland b.v.                                        leeuwarden                     netherlands              100.00
gea farm technologies new zealand limited                                   frankton, hamilton             new zealand              100.00
gea farm technologies românia s.r.l..                                       alba julia                     romania                  100.00
gea farm technologies serbia d.o.o.                                         beograd                        serbia                   100.00
gea farm technologies slovakia spol. s.r.o.                                 piestany                       slovakia                 100.00
gea farm technologies sp. z o.o.                                            bydgoszcz                      poland                   100.00
gea farm technologies suisse ag                                             ittigen                        switzerland              100.00
gea farm technologies, inc.                                                 wilmington, delaware           usa                      100.00
gea farmtechnologies tarim ekip.mak.kim. tek.dan.san.tic.ltd.sti.           kemalpasa, izmir               turkey                   100.00
gea finland oy                                                              helsinki                       finland                  100.00
gea food solutions (beijing) co., ltd.                                      beijing                        china                    100.00
gea food solutions asia co. limited                                         hong kong                      china                    100.00
gea food solutions b.v.                                                     bakel                          netherlands              100.00
gea food solutions bakel b.v.                                               bakel                          netherlands              100.00
gea food solutions brasil comércio de equipamentos ltda.                    campinas, sao paulo            brazil                   100.00
gea food solutions chile comercializadora limitada                          santiago de chile              chile                    100.00
gea food solutions czech s.r.o.                                             prag                           czech republik           100.00
gea food solutions denmark a/s                                              slagelse                       denmark                  100.00
gea food solutions france sas                                               beaucouzé                      france                   100.00
gea food solutions germany gmbh                                             biedenkopf-wallau              germany                  100.00
gea food solutions gmbh                                                     düsseldorf                     germany                  100.00
gea food solutions international a/s                                        slagelse                       denmark                  100.00
gea food solutions international b.v.                                       bakel                          netherlands              100.00
gea food solutions italy s.r.l.                                             grumello del monte             italy                    100.00
gea food solutions japan k.k.                                               shibuya-ku,tokyo               japan                    100.00
gea food solutions korea co., ltd.                                          seoul                          south korea              100.00
gea food solutions middle east f.z.e.                                       dubai                          united arab emirates     100.00
gea food solutions nordic a/s                                               slagelse                       denmark                  100.00
gea food solutions north america, inc.                                      frisco                         usa                      100.00
gea food solutions poland sp. z o.o.                                        warschau                       poland                   100.00
gea food solutions rus zao                                                  moskau                         russian federation       100.00
gea food solutions south africa (pty) ltd.                                  midrand                        south africa             100.00
gea food solutions switzerland ag                                           rothrist                       switzerland              100.00
gea food solutions uk & ireland ltd.                                        old wolverton                  great britain            100.00
gea food solutions ukraine llc                                              kiev                           ukraine                  100.00
gea food solutions weert b.v.                                               weert                          netherlands              100.00
gea grasso indonesia, pt                                                    jakarta barat, cengkareng      indonesia                100.00
gea grasso tov                                                              kiev                           ukraine                  100.00
gea grasso uab                                                              vilnius                        lithuania                100.00
gea grenco ltd.                                                             sittingbourne, kent            great britain            100.00
gea group holding france sas                                                montigny le bretonneux         france                   100.00
gea group holding gmbh                                                      bochum                         germany                  100.00
gea group holdings (uk) limited                                             eastleigh, hampshire           great britain            100.00
gea insurance broker gmbh                                                   frankfurt am main              germany                  100.00
gea ireland limited                                                         kildare                        ireland                  100.00
gea it services gmbh                                                        oelde                          germany                  100.00
gea lyophil (beijing) ltd.                                                  beijing                        china                    100.00
gea lyophil gmbh                                                            hürth                          germany                  100.00
gea mechanical equipment (tianjin) co., ltd.                                wuqing                         china                    100.00
gea mechanical equipment canada, inc.                                       saint-john, new brunswick      canada                   100.00
gea mechanical equipment gmbh                                               oelde                          germany                  100.00




       220                                                          gea group annual report 2014

                                                         notes to the consolidated financial statements /
                                                  supplemental disclosures in accordance with section 315a of the hgb




company                                                                      head office                      country                shares %
gea mechanical equipment italia s.p.a.                                       parma                            italy                    100.00
gea mechanical equipment uk limited                                          milton keynes                    great britain            100.00
gea mechanical equipment us, inc.                                            wilmington, delaware             usa                      100.00
gea messo gmbh                                                               duisburg                         germany                  100.00
gea middle east fze                                                          dubai                            united arab emirates     100.00
gea milfos international limited                                             frankton, hamilton               new zealand              100.00
gea mts flowtec ag                                                           kirchberg                        switzerland              100.00
gea niro gmbh                                                                müllheim                         germany                  100.00
gea niro pt b.v.                                                             ’s-hertogenbosch                 netherlands              100.00
gea north america, inc.                                                      delaware                         usa                      100.00
gea nu-con limited                                                           penrose, auckland                new zealand              100.00
gea nu-con pty. ltd.                                                         sutherland, sydney               australia                100.00
gea pharma systems (india) private limited                                   vadodara, gujarat                india                    100.00
gea pharma systems ag                                                        bubendorf                        switzerland              100.00
gea pharma systems limited                                                   eastleigh hampshire              great britain            100.00
gea power cooling de mexico s. de r.l. de c.v.                               naucalpan de juárez, mexico      mexico                   100.00
gea process engineering (india) private limited                              vadodara, gujarat                india                    100.00
gea process engineering (philippines) inc.                                   manila                           philippines              100.00
gea process engineering (pty) ltd.                                           midrand                          south africa             100.00
gea process engineering (thailand) co., ltd.                                 bangkok                          thailand                 100.00
gea process engineering a/s                                                  soeborg                          denmark                  100.00
gea process engineering asia ltd.                                            hong kong                        china                    100.00
gea process engineering cee kft.                                             budaörs                          hungary                  100.00
gea process engineering chile s.a.                                           santiago de chile                chile                    100.00
gea process engineering china limited                                        shanghai                         china                    100.00
gea process engineering china ltd.                                           shanghai                         china                    100.00
gea process engineering inc.                                                 columbia                         usa                      100.00
gea process engineering japan ltd.                                           tokyo                            japan                    100.00
gea process engineering ltd.                                                 penrose, auckland                new zealand              100.00
gea process engineering ltd.                                                 birchwood,cheshire,warrington    great britain            100.00
gea process engineering n.v.                                                 halle                            belgium                  100.00
gea process engineering nederland b.v.                                       deventer                         netherlands              100.00
gea process engineering ooo                                                  moskau                           russian federation       100.00
gea process engineering pte. ltd.                                            singapur                         singapore                100.00
gea process engineering pty. ltd.                                            blackburn, victoria              australia                100.00
gea process engineering s.a.                                                 buenos aires                     argentina                100.00
gea process engineering s.a.                                                 alcobendas, madrid               spain                    100.00
gea process engineering s.a. de c.v.                                         naucalpan de juárez, mexico      mexico                   100.00
gea process engineering s.a.s.                                               saint-quentin en yvelines ced.   france                   100.00
gea process engineering s.p.a.                                               segrate                          italy                    100.00
gea process engineering s.r.o.                                               brno                             czech republik           100.00
gea process engineering taiwan ltd.                                          taipeh                           taiwan                   100.00
gea process engineering trading (shanghai) limited                           shanghai                         china                    100.00
gea process engineering z o.o.                                               warschau                         poland                   100.00
gea process mühendislik makine insaat taahüt ithalat ihracat danis.
san. ve tic. ltd. sti.                                                       kemalpasa, izmir                 turkey                   100.00
gea process technologies ireland limited                                     dublin                           ireland                  100.00
gea procomac s.p.a.                                                          sala baganza                     italy                    100.00
gea real estate gmbh                                                         frankfurt am main                germany                  100.00
gea refrigeration (thailand) co. ltd.                                        nonthaburi                       thailand                99.9994
gea refrigeration africa (pty) ltd.                                          kapstadt                         south africa             100.00
gea refrigeration australia pty. ltd.                                        carrum downs, victoria           australia                100.00
gea refrigeration canada inc.                                                richmond                         canada                   100.00
gea refrigeration components (nordic) a/s                                    skanderborg                      denmark                  100.00
gea refrigeration components (uk) ltd.                                       ross-on-wye, herfordshire        great britain            100.00
gea refrigeration czech republic s.r.o.                                      prag                             czech republik           100.00
gea refrigeration france sas                                                 les sorinières                   france                   100.00
gea refrigeration germany gmbh                                               berlin                           germany                  100.00
gea refrigeration hong kong ltd.                                             hong kong                        china                    100.00
gea refrigeration ibérica s.a.                                               alcobendas, madrid               spain                    100.00




                                                                    gea group annual report 2014                                     221

                                                         notes to the consolidated financial statements /
                                                  supplemental disclosures in accordance with section 315a of the hgb




company                                                                      head office                      country              shares %
gea refrigeration india private limited                                      vadodara, gujarat                india                  100.00
gea refrigeration ireland limited                                            cavan                            ireland                100.00
gea refrigeration italy s.p.a.                                               castel maggiore, bologna         italy                  100.00
gea refrigeration maghreb sarlau                                             casablanca                       morocco                100.00
gea refrigeration malaysia sdn. bhd.                                         petaling jaya                    malaysia               100.00
gea refrigeration netherlands n.v.                                           ’s-hertogenbosch                 netherlands            100.00
gea refrigeration north america, inc.                                        york , pennsylvania              usa                    100.00
gea refrigeration poland sp. z o. o.                                         gdynia                           poland                 100.00
gea refrigeration romania s.r.l.                                             cluj-napoca                      romania                100.00
gea refrigeration singapore pte. ltd.                                        singapur                         singapore              100.00
gea refrigeration technologies gmbh                                          bochum                           germany                100.00
gea refrigeration technology (suzhou) co., ltd.                              suzhou                           china                  100.00
gea refrigeration uk ltd.                                                    london                           great britain          100.00
gea refrigeration vietnam co. ltd.                                           ho chi min city                  vietnam                100.00
gea scan-vibro a/s                                                           svendborg                        denmark                100.00
gea segment management holding gmbh                                          düsseldorf                       germany                100.00
gea services and components ooo                                              moskau                           russian federation     100.00
gea tds gmbh                                                                 sarstedt                         germany                100.00
gea tuchenhagen france                                                       hoenheim                         france                 100.00
gea tuchenhagen gmbh                                                         büchen                           germany                100.00
gea tuchenhagen polska sp. z o.o.                                            koszalin                         poland                 100.00
gea verwaltungs ag                                                           düsseldorf                       germany                100.00
gea west africa limited                                                      lagos                            nigeria                100.00
gea westfalia separator (china) ltd.                                         wanchai,hongkong                 china                  100.00
gea westfalia separator (malaysia) sdn. bhd.                                 petaling jaya                    malaysia               100.00
gea westfalia separator (s.e.a.) pte. ltd.                                   singapur                         singapore              100.00
gea westfalia separator (thailand) ltd.                                      bangkok                          thailand                97.30
gea westfalia separator (tianjin) co., ltd.                                  tianjin                          china                  100.00
gea westfalia separator argentina s.a.                                       buenos aires                     argentina              100.00
gea westfalia separator australia pty. ltd.                                  thomastown, victoria             australia              100.00
gea westfalia separator belgium n.v.                                         schoten                          belgium                100.00
gea westfalia separator chile s.a.                                           santiago de chile                chile                  100.00
gea westfalia separator cis ltd.                                             moskau                           russian federation     100.00
gea westfalia separator cz s.r.o.                                            prag                             czech republik         100.00
gea westfalia separator deutschland gmbh                                     oelde                            germany                100.00
gea westfalia separator dk a/s                                               skanderborg                      denmark                100.00
gea westfalia separator do brasil industria de centrifugas ltda.             campinas, sao paulo              brazil                 100.00
gea westfalia separator france                                               château-thierry                  france                 100.00
gea westfalia separator group gmbh                                           oelde                            germany                100.00
gea westfalia separator hellas a.e.                                          athen                            greece                 100.00
gea westfalia separator hungária kft.                                        budaörs                          hungary                100.00
gea westfalia separator ibérica, s.a.                                        granollers                       spain                  100.00
gea westfalia separator iceland ehf                                          reykjavik                        iceland                100.00
gea westfalia separator india private limited                                new delhi                        india                  100.00
gea westfalia separator indonesia, pt                                        jakarta                          indonesia              100.00
gea westfalia separator ireland ltd.                                         ballincollig cork                ireland                100.00
gea westfalia separator japan k.k.                                           minato-ku,tokyo                  japan                  100.00
gea westfalia separator korea ltd.                                           seoul                            south korea            100.00
gea westfalia separator mexicana s.a. de c.v.                                cuernavaca,morelos               mexico                 100.00
gea westfalia separator nederland b.v.                                       cuijk                            netherlands            100.00
gea westfalia separator nederland services b.v.                              cuijk                            netherlands            100.00
gea westfalia separator nordic as                                            oslo                             norway                 100.00
gea westfalia separator nz ltd.                                              mount wellington, auckland       new zealand            100.00
gea westfalia separator phils. inc.                                          manila                           philippines            100.00
gea westfalia separator polska sp. z o.o.                                    warschau                         poland                 100.00
gea westfalia separator production france                                    château-thierry                  france                 100.00
gea westfalia separator romania s.r.l.                                       bukarest                         romania                100.00
gea westfalia separator sanayi ve ticaret ltd. sti.                          kemalpasa, izmir                 turkey                 100.00
gea westfalia separator south africa (pty) ltd.                              midrand                          south africa           100.00
gea westfalia separator sweden ab                                            göteborg                         sweden                 100.00




      222                                                          gea group annual report 2014

                                                      notes to the consolidated financial statements /
                                               supplemental disclosures in accordance with section 315a of the hgb




company                                                                       head office                  country                shares %
gea wiegand gmbh                                                              ettlingen                    germany                  100.00
hovex b.v.                                                                    veendam                      netherlands              100.00
ket marine asia pte. ltd.                                                     singapur                     singapore                100.00
ket marine international b.v.                                                 zevenbergen                  netherlands              100.00
kupferbergbau stadtberge zu niedermarsberg gmbh                               frankfurt am main            germany                  100.00
ll plant engineering (india) private limited                                  mumbai maharashtra           india                    100.00
ll plant engineering ag                                                       ratingen                     germany                  100.00
ll plant engineering france s.a.s.                                            sartrouville                 france                   100.00
mg altersversorgung gmbh                                                      bochum                       germany                  100.00
mg capital gmbh                                                               bochum                       germany                  100.00
mg stahlhandel gmbh                                                           bochum                       germany                  100.00
mg venture capital ag                                                         bochum                       germany                  100.00
mg vv projektgesellschaft hornpottweg gmbh                                    frankfurt am main            germany                  100.00
mgvv projektentwicklung daimlerstrasse gmbh & co. kg                          frankfurt am main            germany                  100.00
mgvv projektentwicklung daimlerstrasse verwaltungs gmbh                       frankfurt am main            germany                  100.00
milfos australia pty. limited                                                 sydney                       australia                100.00
milfos uk limited                                                             droitwich, worcestershire    great britain            100.00
milk ‚n‘ water services stratford limited                                     stratford                    new zealand              100.00
niro sterner inc.                                                             columbia                     usa                      100.00
nu-con (shanghai) trading co. ltd.                                            pudong, shanghai             china                    100.00
nu-con systems sdn. bhd.                                                      shah alam, selangor          malaysia                 100.00
ooo gea farm technologies rus                                                 moskau                       russian federation       100.00
ooo gea farm technologies ukraine                                             bila zerkva                  ukraine                  100.00
ooo gea refrigeration rus                                                     moskau                       russian federation       100.00
paul pollrich gmbh                                                            herne                        germany                  100.00
pelacci s.r.l. i.l.                                                           sala baganza                 italy                        67.00
royal de boer stalinrichtingen b.v.                                           leeuwarden                   netherlands              100.00
ruhr-zink gmbh                                                                datteln                      germany                  100.00
sachtleben bergbau verwaltungsgesellschaft mit beschränkter haftung           lennestadt                   germany                  100.00
trennschmelz altersversorgung gmbh                                            bochum                       germany                  100.00
vdm-hilfe gmbh                                                                frankfurt am main            germany                  100.00
wilarus ooo                                                                   kolomna                      russian federation       100.00
wolfking limited                                                              old wolverton                great britain            100.00
wolfking llc                                                                  frisco                       usa                      100.00
ziag plant engineering gmbh                                                   frankfurt am main            germany                  100.00
accociated companies
imai s.a.                                                                     buenos aires                 argentina                    20.00
polyamid 2000 handels- und produktionsgesellschaft premnitz ag i.i.           premnitz                     germany                      49.90
technofrigo abu dhabi i.l.                                                    abu dhabi                    united arab emirates         49.00
zao moscow coffee house                                                       moskau                       russian federation           29.00
joint ventures
blue glacier technology, llc                                                  durham                       usa                          50.00
crismil s.a.                                                                  montevideo                   uruguay                      49.00
gea orion farm technologies co., ltd.                                         nagano                       japan                        49.00
grade grasso adearest limited                                                 dubai                        united arab emirates         50.00
grade refrigeration llc                                                       sharjah                      united arab emirates         49.00
merton wohnprojekt gmbh                                                       frankfurt am main            germany                      50.00
other equity investments under section 313(2) no. 4 of the hgb
bauverein oelde gmbh                                                          oelde                        germany                      35.50
ehrfeld mikrotechnik ag                                                       wendelsheim                  germany                      26.00
epsa empresa paulista de servicos ambientais s.a.                             sao paulo, sao paulo         brazil                       47.50
indo technofrigo ltd. i.l.                                                    rajkot                       india                        49.00




                                                                      gea group annual report 2014                                223

                                  notes to the consolidated financial statements /
                           supplemental disclosures in accordance with section 315a of the hgb




      12.5 companies exempted in accordance with sections 264(3)
           and 264b of the hgb
      the following german companies are exempted from the duty to comply with the supplementary
      accounting, audit, and publication provisions applicable to corporations and certain partnerships in
      accordance with sections 264(3) and 264b of the hgb:

      gea awp gmbh, prenzlau
      gea bischoff gmbh, essen
      gea bock gmbh, frickenhausen
      gea brewery systems gmbh, kitzingen
      gea diessel gmbh, hildesheim
      gea energietechnik anlagen- und betriebs-gmbh, bochum
      gea erste kapitalbeteiligungen gmbh & co. kg, bochum
      gea farm technologies gmbh, bönen
      gea food solutions germany gmbh, biedenkopf-wallau
      gea food solutions gmbh, düsseldorf
      gea group holding gmbh, bochum
      gea heat exchangers gmbh, bochum
      gea insurance broker gmbh, frankfurt am main
      gea it services gmbh, oelde
      gea lyophil gmbh, hürth
      gea mechanical equipment gmbh, oelde
      gea messo gmbh, duisburg
      gea niro gmbh, müllheim
      gea real estate gmbh, frankfurt am main
      gea refrigeration germany gmbh, berlin
      gea refrigeration technologies gmbh, bochum
      gea tds gmbh, sarstedt
      gea tuchenhagen gmbh, büchen
      gea westfalia separator deutschland gmbh, oelde
      gea westfalia separator group gmbh, oelde
      gea wiegand gmbh, ettlingen
      ll plant engineering ag, ratingen




224                                         gea group annual report 2014

                             notes to the consolidated financial statements /
                      supplemental disclosures in accordance with section 315a of the hgb




mg altersversorgung gmbh, bochum
mg capital gmbh, bochum
mg vv projektgesellschaft hornpottweg gmbh, frankfurt am main
paul pollrich gmbh, herne
ziag plant engineering gmbh, frankfurt am main



düsseldorf, february 26, 2015

the executive board




jürg oleas                 dr. helmut schmale                markus hüllmann                dr. stephan petri




                                        gea group annual report 2014                                            225

                                        independent group auditor’s report




      independent group auditor’s report
      we have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by the gea group aktiengesellschaft,
      düsseldorf – comprising the consolidated balance sheet, consolidated income statement, consolidated
      statement of comprehensive income, notes to the consolidated statements, consolidated cash flow
      statement and consolidated statement of changes in equity – together with the group management
      report combined with the management report of the parent company (combined group management
      report) for the financial year from january 1, 2014 to december 31, 2014. the preparation of the conso-
      lidated financial statements and the combined group management report in accordance with ifrss as
      adopted by the eu, and the additional requirements of german commercial law pursuant to section
      315a (1) of the german commercial code [hgb] and supplementary provisions of the articles of incor-
      poration are the responsibility of the parent company`s management. our responsibility is to express
      an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and on the combined group management report
      based on our audit.

      we conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with section 317 of the
      german commercial code [hgb] and german generally accepted standards for the audit of financial
      statements promulgated by the german institute of public auditors [idw]. those standards require
      that we plan and perform the audit such that misstatements materially affecting the presentation of
      the net assets, financial position and results of operations in the consolidated financial statements in
      accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework and in the combined group manage-
      ment report are detected with reasonable assurance. knowledge of the business activities and the
      economic and legal environment of the group and expectations as to possible misstatements are taken
      into account in the determination of audit procedures. the effectiveness of the accounting-related
      internal control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures in the consolidated financial state-
      ments and the combined group management report are examined primarily on a test basis within the
      framework of the audit. the audit includes assessing the annual financial statements of those entities
      included in consolidation, the determination of entities to be included in consolidation, the accounting
      and consolidation principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evalua-
      ting the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and combined group manage-
      ment report. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

      our audit has not led to any reservations.

      in our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the consolidated financial statements comply with
      ifrss as adopted by the eu, the additional requirements of german commercial law pursuant to sec-
      tion 315a (1) of the german commercial code [hgb] and supplementary provisions of the articles of
      incorporation and give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of opera-
      tions of the group in accordance with these requirements. the combined group management report is
      consistent with the consolidated financial statements and as a whole provides a suitable view of the
      group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development.

      düsseldorf, february 26, 2015

      kpmg ag
      wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

      guido moesta			                              dr. markus zeimes
      wirtschaftsprüfer			                         wirtschaftsprüfer
      (german public auditor) 			                  (german public auditor)


226                                         gea group annual report 2014

                                         responsibility statement




responsibility statement
to the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the consolidated
financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position, and profit or
loss of the group, and the management report of the group, which has been combined with the
management report of the company, includes a fair review of the development and performance of
the business and the position of the group, together with a description of the principal opportunities
and risks associated with the expected development of the group.



düsseldorf, february 26, 2015

the executive board




jürg oleas                 dr. helmut schmale              markus hüllmann               dr. stephan petri




                                       gea group annual report 2014                                            227

                                        the company’s executive bodies and their appointments




      the company’s executive bodies
      and their appointments
      executive board                                                         supervisory board
      jürg oleas, meerbusch (germany)/hausen b. brugg (switzerland),          dr. jürgen heraeus, maintal, germany,
      ceo – chairman of the executive board                                   chairman of the supervisory board
                                                                              chairman of the supervisory board of heraeus holding gmbh
      a) - ll plant engineering ag, ratingen, germany,
      		 chairman of the supervisory board                                    a) -   heraeus holding gmbh, hanau, germany,
      b) - allianz global corporate & specialty ag, munich, germany,          		     chairman of the supervisory board
      		 (until december 31,2014)                                                -   hauck & aufhäuser privatbankiers kgaa,
         - deutsche bank ag, frankfurt am main,                               		     frankfurt am main, germany,
      		 member of the central regional advisory board (until may 22, 2014)   		     member of the supervisory board
         - gea process engineering a/s, søborg, denmark,                         -   messer group gmbh, sulzbach, germany,
      		 chairman of the supervisory board                                    		     chairman of the supervisory board
         - ruag holding ag, bern, switzerland,
      		 member of the board of directors
         - holcim ltd, zürich, switzerland,                                   reinhold siegers, mönchengladbach, germany,
         		 member of the board of directors (from april 29, 2014)            deputy chairman of the supervisory board
                                                                              deputy chairman of the works council of
                                                                              gea group aktiengesellschaft (from august 26, 2014)
      dr. helmut schmale, bochum,
      cfo – chief financial officer
                                                                              ahmad m.a. bastaki, safat, kuwait,
      b) - gea north america, inc., delaware, u.s.a.,                         executive director, planning and senior management support
      		 chairman of the board of directors                                   (from december 17, 2014),
         - commerzbank ag, frankfurt am main, germany,                        office of the managing director,
      		 member of the northwest regional advisory board                      kuwait investment authority


      markus hüllmann, rheda-wiedenbrück,                                     prof. dr. ing. werner bauer, lutry, switzerland,
      coo – member of the executive board                                     chairman of the supervisory board of nestlé deutschland ag

      b) - gea segment management holding gmbh, düsseldorf, germany           a) - nestlé deutschland ag, frankfurt am main, germany,
         - gea north america, inc., delaware, u.s.a.,                         		 chairman of the supervisory board
      		 member of the board of directors                                     b) - bertelsmann se & co. kgaa / bertelsmann management se, 		
         - dechema e.v., frankfurt/main, germany                              		gütersloh, germany,
         		 member of the executive board (from january 1, 2014)              		 member of the supervisory board
                                                                                 - galderma pharma s.a., lausanne, switzerland,
                                                                              		 president of the board of directors (until june 30, 2014)
      dr. stephan petri, essen, germany,                                         - lonza s.a., basel, switzerland,
      human resources & legal – member of the executive board                 		 member of the board of director
                                                                                 - givaudan s.a., vernier, switzerland,
      a) - ll plant engineering ag, ratingen, germany,                        		 member of the board of directors (from march 20, 2014)
      		 deputy chairman of the supervisory board
         - gea farm technologies gmbh, bönen, germany,
      		 chairman of the supervisory board                                    hartmut eberlein, gehrden, germany,
         - gea westfalia separator group gmbh, oelde, germany,                chairman of the audit committee of
      		 chairman of the supervisory board                                    gea group aktiengesellschaft


                                                                              rainer gröbel, sulzbach/ts., germany,
                                                                              departmental head, ig metall, management board

                                                                              a) - schunk gmbh, heuchelheim, germany,
                                                                              		 deputy chairman of the supervisory board


                                                                              klaus hunger, herne, (bis 31.10.2014)
                                                                              segmentgesamtbetriebsratsvorsitzender
                                                                              der gea heat exchangers gmbh


                                                                              michael kämpfert, düsseldorf,
                                                                              vice president human resources/legal affairs


                                                                              eva-maria kerkemeier, herne,
                                                                              1. bevollmächtigte der ig metall, herne bochum




228                                                       gea group annual report 2014

                                 the company’s executive bodies and their appointments




brigitte krönchen, oelde, (from november 5, 2014)
deputy chairman of the central works council of
                                                                   supervisory board committees
gea farm technologies gmbh, bönen, germany                         of gea group aktiengesellschaft
                                                                   (as of december 31, 2014)
kurt-jürgen löw, ebernhahn, germany,
chairman of the works council of                                   mediation committee in accordance with section 27(3) of the mitbestim-
gea westfalia separator group gmbh (from august 26, 2014)          mungsgesetz (mitbestg – german co-determination act)
                                                                   dr. jürgen heraeus, chairman
a) - gea westfalia separator group gmbh, oelde,                    dr. helmut perlet
		 deputy chairman of the supervisory board                        reinhold siegers
                                                                   klaus hunger (until october 31, 2014)
                                                                   kurt-jürgen löw (from december 18, 2014)
dr. helmut perlet, munich, germany,
chairman of the supervisory board of allianz se                    presiding committee
                                                                   dr. jürgen heraeus, chairman
a) - allianz se, munich, germany,                                  dr. helmut perlet
		 chairman of the supervisory board                               reinhold siegers
   - commerzbank ag, frankfurt am main, germany,                   rainer gröbel
		 member of the supervisory board
                                                                   audit committee
                                                                   hartmut eberlein, chairman (financial expert within the meaning of
jean spence, wilmette/il, u.s.a.,                                  section 100(5) of the aktiengesetz (aktg – german stock corporation act))
executive vice president                                           dr. jürgen heraeus
research, development & quality                                    kurt-jürgen löw
mondeléz international                                             klaus hunger (until october 31, 2014)
                                                                   brigitte krönchen (from december 18, 2014)

                                                                   nomination committee
                                                                   dr. jürgen heraeus, chairman
                                                                   prof. dr. ing. werner bauer
                                                                   dr. helmut perlet




                                                                    a) membership of statutory german supervisory boards

                                                                    b) membership of comparable german or foreign
                                                                       supervisory bodies of business entities




                                                    gea group annual report 2014                                                               229

                                                                                    key figures by quarter




      key figures by quarter 1

                                                               q1           q1            q2            q2           q3        q3        q4        q4
                                                             2014         2013          2014          2013         2014      2013      2014      2013      2014      2013      2012

      order intake (eur million)
      gea farm technologies                                 161.6         138.8        169.7         155.7        166.4     150.7     161.3     151.6     659.0     596.7     583.9
      gea mechanical equipment                              339.1         329.7        329.1         346.4        328.7     357.7     352.9     334.4    1,349.8   1,368.2   1,347.9
      gea process engineering                               366.7         481.3        500.9         570.0        506.4     515.2     461.7     494.6    1,835.7   2,061.0   1,850.2
      gea refrigeration technologies                        192.9         177.9        204.1         181.2        195.0     174.9     212.7     192.3     804.7     726.3     756.2
      gea group                                          1,024.3       1,095.1       1,169.9       1,220.0       1,167.9   1,168.3   1,157.5   1,144.4   4,519.6   4,627.9   4,425.4

      revenue (eur million)
      gea farm technologies                                 126.6         110.8        154.2         133.8        176.4     156.9     192.7     176.2     650.0     577.7     580.9
      gea mechanical equipment                              310.0         298.1        340.4         334.0        349.2     336.3     380.8     359.3    1,380.4   1,327.8   1,266.4
      gea process engineering                               390.7         394.3        469.1         435.6        453.8     441.3     538.5     526.7    1,852.1   1,798.0   1,716.3
      gea refrigeration technologies                        154.9         152.1        189.0         189.2        196.4     184.8     223.4     210.6     763.7     736.6     694.8
      gea group                                             950.7         924.2      1,117.7       1,064.6       1,146.0   1,089.1   1,301.4   1,242.2   4,515.7   4,320.0   4,142.3

      ebitda (eur million)
      gea farm technologies                                     6.1          2.8         13.1            8.5       19.8      17.6      32.6      27.8      71.5      56.7      58.2
      gea mechanical equipment                                42.1          38.6         48.4          48.3        53.6      56.8      80.4      71.0     224.5     214.7     134.9
      gea process engineering                                 30.2          29.4         48.8          45.0        49.3      46.3      92.2      82.5     220.6     203.2     178.1
      gea refrigeration technologies                          12.4           9.6         19.9          16.8        21.6      17.1      34.1      27.5       88.0      71.0      65.2
      gea group                                               83.0          71.1        123.1        113.8        140.0     130.0     193.9     200.3     539.9     515.2     420.1

      operating ebitda * (eur million)
      gea farm technologies                                     6.1          3.1         13.1            8.5       22.3      17.6      33.0      27.8       74.5      56.9      58.5
      gea mechanical equipment                                42.1          38.6         48.4          48.3         55.4      56.8      85.6      71.0    231.6     214.7     199.3
      gea process engineering                                 30.2          29.4         48.8          45.0         49.4      46.3      92.2      82.5    220.6     203.2     178.4
      gea refrigeration technologies                          12.4           9.6         19.9          16.8         23.6      17.1      33.8      27.5      89.7      71.0      65.2
      gea group                                               85.1          72.4        128.0        118.4        149.0     133.5     228.5     205.7     590.7     530.1     494.4

      operating ebitda margin * (%)
      gea farm technologies                                    4.8           2.8           8.5          6.4        12.7      11.2      17.1      15.8      11.5        9.9     10.1
      gea mechanical equipment                                13.6         12.9          14.2          14.5        15.9      16.9      22.5      19.8      16.8      16.2      15.7
      gea process engineering                                  7.7           7.5         10.4          10.3        10.9      10.5      17.1      15.7      11.9      11.3      10.4
      gea refrigeration technologies                           8.0           6.3         10.5           8.9        12.0        9.3     15.1      13.1      11.7        9.6       9.4
      gea group                                                9.0           7.8         11.5          11.1        13.0      12.3      17.6      16.6      13.1      12.3      11.9

      *) before effects of purchase price allocations from revalued assets and liabilities and before one-offs




230                                                                            gea group annual report 2014

                                                             financial calendar




financial calendar
april 16, 2015		                      annual shareholders‘ meeting for 2014

may 11, 2015		                        quarterly financial report for the period to march 31, 2015

july 29, 2015		                       half-yearly financial report for the period to june 30, 2015

october 27, 2015                      quarterly financial report for the period to september 30, 2015




the gea group stock: key data                                           american depository receipts (adr)

wkn                          660 200                                    cusip                   361592108
isin                         de0006602006                               symbol                  geagy
reuters code                 g1ag.de                                    sponsor                 deutsche bank trust company americas
bloomberg code               g1a.gr                                     adr-level               1
xetra                        g1a.de                                     ratio                   1:1


communication & branding                                         investor relations
tel.        +49 (0)211 9136-1492                                 tel.        +49 (0)211 9136-1082
fax         +49 (0)211 9136-31492                                fax         +49 (0)211 9136-31082
mail        pr@gea.com                                           mail        ir@gea.com


this report includes forward-looking statements on gea group aktiengesellschaft, its subsidiaries and associates, and on the economic and political conditions
that may influence the business performance of the gea group. all these statements are based on assumptions made by the executive board using information
available to it at the time. should these assumptions prove to be wholly or partly incorrect, or should further risks arise, actual business performance may differ
from that expected. the executive board therefore cannot assume any liability for the statements made.		




imprint

published by		 gea group aktiengesellschaft
			peter-müller-straße 12
			40468 düsseldorf
			germany
			www.gea.com

design			www.kpad.de

printed by		                          griebsch & rochol druck, hamm

picture credits		                     gea group aktiengesellschaft

this report is a translation of the german original; in the event of variances,
the german version shall take precedence over the englisch translation.




                                                      gea group annual report 2014                                                                      231

we live our values.
excellence • passion • integrity • responsibility • gea-versity


gea group is a global engineering company with ­multi-billion euro sales and ­operations in more than
50 countries. founded in 1881 the company is one of the largest providers of ­innovative equipment and
­process technology. gea group is listed in the stoxx® europe 600 index.




gea group aktiengesellschaft
peter-müller-straße 12, 40468 düsseldorf
germany
phone: +49 211 9136-0
info@gea.com, www.gea.com
