annual report
 2015




                gea.com

ifrs key figures of gea


                                                                                                                                                                     change
(eur million)                                                                                                                         2015                   2014      in %

results of operations
order intake                                                                                                                       4,590.1                 4,519.6      1.6
revenue                                                                                                                            4,599.3                 4,515.7      1.9
operating ebitda 1                                                                                                                   621.0                  590.7       5.1
 as % of revenue                                                                                                                       13.5                  13.1         –
operating ebit 1                                                                                                                     538.8                  513.5       4.9
 as % of revenue                                                                                                                       11.7                  11.4         –
ebit                                                                                                                                 309.4                  439.9     –29.6

net assets
working capital intensity in % (average of the last 12 months)                                                                         13.1                  12.1         –
net liquidity (+)/net debt (-)                                                                                                       982.0                  903.7       8.7

financial position
operating cash flow driver margin 2                                                                                                    10.3                  10.1         –
roce in % (goodwill adjusted) 3                                                                                                        14.6                  22.6         –
full-time equivalents (reporting date)                                                                                              17,533                 18,243      –3.9

gea shares
earnings per share (eur)                                                                                                               1.88                  1.66      12.9

1) before effects of purchase price allocations and before non-recurring items (see page 218 f.)
2) cash flow driver = operating ebitda - capital expenditure - change in working capital (average of the last 12 months)
3) capital employed excluding goodwill from the acquisition of the former gea ag by former metallgesellschaft ag in 1999 (average of the last 12 months)

            contents


   		                                      14    letter to shareholders
   		                                      17    report of the supervisory board
   		                                      21    executive board of gea group aktiengesellschaft

    management  22                               combined group management report
         report 22                               fundamental information about the group
   		 34                                         report on economic position
   		 63                                         report on post-balance sheet date events
   		 64                                         corporate governance report
   			                                           including corporate governance statement
   		 71                                         remuneration report
   		 86                                         report on risks and opportunities
   		 97                                         report on expected developments

      gea shares/investor relations       102
              sustainability report       107

            consolidated                  121    contents
    financial statements                  122    consolidated balance sheet
   		                                     124    consolidated income statement
   		                                     125    consolidated statement of comprehensive income
   		                                     126    consolidated cash flow statement
   		                                     127    consolidated statement of changes in equity
   		                                     128    notes to the consolidated financial statements
   		                                     230    independent group auditor’s report
   		                                     231    responsibility statement

   		 232 the company’s executive bodies and their appointments
   		 234 key figures by quarter
   financial calendar/imprint 235		




                                       cover image
          the photo shows part of a production line used for the
      manufacture of cakes. various perforated dough platens –
depending on the product to be manufactured – are transported
along a conveyor belt. a volumetric extruder portions the dough
    billets and deposits them accurately inside the indent of the
         platens. the cakes are then shaped by a blocker using a
                               pneumatic compensation system.

4       group
    gea gea   geschäftsbericht
            annual report 20152015

our company
   gea: “engineering for a better world“


gea is one of the largest suppliers of process technology for the food industry
and for a wide range of other industries. as an international technology group,
the company focuses on world-leading process solutions and components for
sophisticated production processes.


in 2015, gea generated consolidated revenues in excess of about
eur 4.6 billion. the food sector, which is a long-term growth industry,
accounted for more than 70 percent. as of december 31, 2015, the group
employed above 17,500 people worldwide.


gea is a market and technology leader in its business areas. the company is
listed on germany’s mdax stock index (g1a, wkn 660 200) and included in
the stoxx® europe 600 index. in addition, the company is listed in selected
msci global sustainability indexes.




                               gea at a glance                         2015
order intake                                                                 revenue
eur 4,590 million                operating                     eur 4,599 million
                               ebitda margin
operating ebitda                                               earnings per share
                                  13.5 %
eur 621 million                                                      eur 1.88

                                      gea annual report 2015                           5

    our ambition
        “be your no. 1 choice.”
    we strive to be the world’s leading global engineering group, supplying smart solutions for sophisticated
    pr0cess industries. our goal is to be the customer’s preferred partner in the industries we serve.




           our products and solutions have become indispensable in the manufacture of numerous processed foods and beverages.
           gea technologies play a significant role in the global production of milk and dairy products, coffee, beer and pastries,
           in particular.




6                                                gea annual report 2015

our applications
   customized solutions for demanding needs

food our food processing and packaging portfolios add value to food
products sold in supermarkets, quick-serve restaurants and food service
locations around the world.


dairy processing turn to our industry-leading experience, expertise and
technologies for processing milk and every type of milk-based product.



dairy farming we are the total solutions provider empowering dairy farmers
around the globe to successfully manage their future.



beverages we are a leader in providing the technological expertise required
to help beverage producers quench the global thirst.



pharma we are a single-source supplier of manufacturing solutions that
maximize reliability and productivity for the life science industries.



chemical we supply world-class precision engineering the industry needs to
develop new products, control costs and protect the environment.



marine our technology and global network for service and parts supports the
shipping industry from fishing to freight, and tourist to tanker.



leisure & sport our ice-making machines bring snow to the desert and
arctic conditions to zoos for the comfort of polar bears and penguins.



land-based transportation our advanced compressor technology
keeps public transportation cool and refrigerated freight fresh.



utilities we offer expertise in emission reduction, water and wastewater
treatment, urban logistics and power supplies, as well as oil and gas exploration,
production and processing.




                                                     gea annual report 2015          7

our product groups
   engineering for a better world


                      filling & packaging systems
                      we design systems to fill and package food & renewables, beverages,
                      dairy products and pharmaceuticals.




                      emission control systems
                      reducing emissions is in everybody’s interest. we are a world leader
                      in developing, designing and installing emissions reduction systems.




                      liquid food systems
                      we offer specialized equipment and solutions for the production
                      of many different liquid foodstuffs, including soups, sauces and
                      nutritional products.




                      automation & control systems
                      from process automation and machine control to data capture
                      systems, gea can provide tailor-made solutions for process plants
                      and complete production lines.




                      brewery plants
                      uniquely qualified to build brewery plants, we are capable of providing
                      solutions down to the smallest detail of the brewing process.




                      distillation & fermentation systems
                      our detailed knowledge of distillation and fermentation processes
                      allows us to recommend and provide equipment that meets every need.




   8                           gea annual report 2015

product handling systems
the careful handling of our customers’ products requires a complete
range of standard and customized equipment to deal with products
as diverse as powders, liquids, foodstuffs and tablets.




flow components
to ensure a smooth production we offer a full range of valve, pump
and cleaning technology.




liquid processing systems
systems for liquid processing are a gea core competency. our
equipment and solutions ensure maximum production safety and
hygiene.




bakery lines
our capability extends from key single components to integrated
production lines for cake, pie, cookies, pastry and bread.




beverage plants
our extensive range of beverage production systems includes product
processing, uht treatment, aseptic filling, blow molders and container
handling for all kinds of beverages.




homogenization solutions & systems
high-pressure homogenizers are used to micronize fluid particles
to obtain stable and uniform emulsions. from the laboratory to
industrial-scale production, gea equipment covers a wide range of
customer applications.




         gea annual report 2015                                          9

     refrigeration solutions & systems
     we are refrigeration experts. our wide portfolio includes chillers,
     compressors, freezers, heat pumps and ice machines that span the
     entire cold chain.




     membrane filtration systems
     we are a world leader in custom designed, cross-flow membrane
     filtration. this is the technology of choice for many industrial
     processes involving the separation and concentration of liquids
     without applying heat.




     food processing & packaging
     we supply a multifaceted product portfolio of secondary food processing
     and packaging equipment that covers everything from individual, stand-
     alone machines to completely integrated processing lines.




     cleaners & sterilizers
     we supply both manual and fully automated clean-in-place ( cip ) and
     sterilize-in-place ( sip ) solutions that ensure reliable process out-
     comes with minimal downtime.




     pharmaceutical systems
     as a global specialist in solid and liquid dose technology, our expertise
     covers batch and continuous granulation, drying, pelletizing and
     coating, contained materials handling, tablet compression, freeze
     drying, fermentation, separation, homogenization and cell disruption.
     we supply the pharmaceutical, nutraceutical and personal care sectors
     with components, equipment and entire plants to process solid, liquid
     semi-solid, viscous, hazardous and hygroscopic products.




10            gea annual report 2015

separation solutions & systems
our centrifuges combine high separating and clarifying efficiencies
as well as high throughput capacities with maximum savings in
terms of energy, water and disposal costs.




systems for milk production & livestock farming
gea’s total solutions in dairy farming provide complete integrated
dairy systems with lifetime care. our portfolio includes automatic and
conventional milking, automatic feeding, cooling, herd management,
hygiene products, barn equipment as well as solutions that support
professional manure management and the proper care of young stock.



dryers & particle processing plants
our wide range of plant capacities includes small-scale pilot plants
for research and product development as well as large-scale industrial
installations.




vacuum systems
vacuum technology is used extensively in the chemical,
pharmaceutical, food and oil-refining industries. our process-
integrated systems reduce both costs and environmental pollution.




evaporators & crystallizers
we have extensive experience in designing evaporation and
crystallization plant to concentrate liquids, remove by-products or
impurities and produce pure, high quality crystals.




         gea annual report 2015                                          11

our services
   gea – your service partner


working with gea means partnering with a dedicated team of service experts. our singular
focus is to build, maintain, and improve customer performance throughout the full life cycle
of the plant or farm and its equipment.




beginning of life service                                       extended-life services
• installation                                                  • upgrades
• commissioning                                                 • modernization
• training                                                      • optimization
                                                                • predictive maintenance
life-time services                                              • second-hand equipment
• spare parts
• corrective maintenance                                        consulting service & operations
• farm services                                                 • service software products
• preventive maintenance                                        • on-site project support
                                                                • performance contracts




     12                                            gea annual report 2015

our company
   globally active


north america                        north- and central europe           dach & eastern europe
  1,829                                3,118                               6,667
  837 million                          680 million                         914 million




latin america                        western europe, middle east         asia pacific
  355                                & africa                              2,901
  277 million                          2,664                               1,139 million
                                       753 million
                                                                          = employees (ftes)
                                                                          = revenue




                                         gea.com
         visit the gea website to find out all about our
      applications, technologies, products and services.
        you will also discover plenty of interesting facts
       about the company, all the important upcoming
                      dates and the latest press releases.




                                                gea annual report 2015                           13

                                                  letter to shareholders




                                     jürg oleas,
                                     chairman of the executive board
                                     of gea group aktiengesellschaft




     dear shareholders
     2015 was a very special fiscal year for gea. thanks to the extraordinary efforts undertaken by our
     employees, we have not only set in motion an all-embracing restructuring of the entire group, but
     also managed to successfully hold our ground in an increasingly demanding market environment.
     moreover, in the previous year, we were able to finalize four acquisitions with overall annual sales of
     more than eur 120 million.

     in terms of revenue, we were able to grow by 1.9 percent generating sales in the amount of eur
     4.6 billion, with both business areas contributing record sales. operating ebitda fared even better
     and was up more than 5 percent at eur 621 million. this corresponds to an operating ebitda
     margin of 13.5 percent. thus, both gea’s operating ebitda and the corresponding margin have hit
     new all-time highs. at 10.3 percent, the operating cash flow driver relative to sales has also performed
     very well. against the backdrop of these achievements, the executive board and the supervisory board
     will propose to the annual general meeting that an increased dividend of eur 0.80 per share will be
     distributed for the fiscal year 2015. this dividend proposal does not only represent a new record high, but
     is also in line with our objective to pay out between 40 and 50 percent of the consolidated profit.

     new structure realized
     on june 8, 2015, gea officially switched to its new organizational structure. following a fundamental
     organizational change, the group has fewer levels of hierarchy and a considerably flatter structure
     while being much closer to local customers on account of our unified country organizations. the
     concentration of our overall portfolio as well as a stronger focus on the service business will promote
     further profitable growth and long-term customer retention. this way, we are seeking to further
     enhance our competitiveness.

     the milestones set out for 2015 were reached on time. under our “fit for 2020” project, we have defined a
     substantial number of measures that are being systematically and consistently implemented. the
     transfer of several administrative tasks to shared service center locations in eastern europe and east
     asia has begun. furthermore, for being able to implement workforce reductions as scheduled and in a
     socially acceptable manner, we concluded the necessary agreements with the employee representative
     bodies in all major countries including germany and france. by the end of the year, we had already
     realized more than half of the headcount reduction to be completed by 2017 within the framework of the
     project. this helped us achieve savings in the amount of eur 23 million that even exceeded the upper




14                                               gea annual report 2015

                                            letter to shareholders




boundary of the expected corridor of eur 10 to 20 million. in 2016, we intend to increase annual savings
to around eur 80 million as planned while seeking to reach the envisaged savings potential of at least
eur 125 million per year from 2017 onwards.

our new organizational structure, which brings the development and manufacture of products and
the offering of process solutions together under the two new business areas equipment and
solutions, has already revealed additional potential for optimization in the field of procurement and
with regard to our manufacturing network. for this reason, we anticipate significant additional
savings for the future.

changes at executive board level
after more than 22 years of service with gea, my fellow executive board member, markus hüllmann,
decided to acquire his own business that he has been running since the start of the year. for this reason,
he left the group of his own accord at the end of 2015. i deeply regret his decision, since gea has lost
one of its key executive managers with a deep knowledge of the industry. i would like to thank markus
hüllmann for his highly successful endeavors and the commitment he has shown in the course of the
previous years, wishing him all the best for the new chapter in his life as an independent businessman.

in september last year, the supervisory board appointed steffen bersch and niels erik olsen, two
internationally-experienced senior managers who have also been with gea for quite a number of years,
to the executive board with effect from 2016. these appointments are to ensure continuity while we are
also seeking to reinforce operational responsibilities in line with gea’s new structure.

employees
after this challenging year, my fellow executive board members and i would like to express our
special thanks to our employees for their outstanding commitment and endeavors. in addition to
their day-to-day business, they were willing to go the extra mile and shoulder the work associated
with internal changes in traditional work processes and structures, thus helping our new gea come
to life. our thanks expressly include the employee representative bodies. in recognition of their
performance, our employees below senior management level worldwide will be awarded an extra
bonus in the total amount of roughly eur 4.5 million.

outlook
apart from further implementing the “fit for 2020” project, gea’s main focus in the new year will be
on strengthening its foothold in the market. we must show that the new onegea organization
mainly serves one target group: our customers!

moreover, in 2016, we intend to consistently pursue our chosen path of strengthening our business by
making acquisitions in areas that will further increase the group’s profitability – in particular in the field
of sophisticated process technology for the food industry. in doing so, we strive to offer our customers a
widening range of services from one single source. in this context, i am particularly pleased that, in
february 2016, we concluded an agreement on the acquisition of imaforni, a leading provider of
sophisticated production facilities and solutions for pastries. the takeover of this company complements
the acquisition of comas in 2015 by adding complex production lines for biscuits and crackers, turning
gea into one of the market leaders in process technology in this particular area.




                                           gea annual report 2015                                                15

                                              letter to shareholders




     provided that there is no further decline in global economic growth and that there are no substantial
     changes in exchange rates and before non-recurring items and acquisitions made in 2016, we aim to
     achieve a moderate growth in sales, an operating ebitda ranging between eur 645 and 715 million
     as well as an operating cash flow driver margin of 10.0 to 11.0 percent. this forecast also includes all
     savings that are to be realized in connection with the group’s restructuring.

     this means that, in the fiscal year 2016, we will once again seek to further grow our business and
     press ahead with the transformation of the company in order to strengthen it by enhancing our
     competitive position. the confidence placed in the future viability of our company by you, our
     shareholders, encourages us to continue along our successful path with the purpose of turning a very
     good company into an outstanding one.



     your




     jürg oleas
     chairman of the executive board




16                                            gea annual report 2015

                                      report of the supervisory board




report of the supervisory board
with due care and diligence, the supervisory board yet again performed the monitoring and advisory
functions incumbent upon it by virtue of the law, the articles of association and the rules of procedure
during the fiscal year 2015. in doing so, it regularly and extensively dealt with the progress and the
prospects of the company as well as all specific material issues, in particular the group’s restructuring
under the “fit for 2020” project, as well as executive board succession. the supervisory board
continuously advised the executive board on the management of the company while overseeing its
conduct of the company‘s business on an ongoing basis.

for fulfilling its tasks, the supervisory board, on the one hand, relied on the discussions held during its
meetings and the meetings of its committees. on the other hand, the executive board complied with its
obligation to inform the supervisory board and its committees by providing written and/or oral reports
on all relevant matters and measures relating to the company, its course of business, corporate planning
and strategy as well as the progress of the group on a regular, timely and comprehensive basis. the
supervisory board was involved in all decisions of fundamental importance to the company and assisted
the executive board in an advisory capacity. at committee level and during the meetings of the full
supervisory board, the members of the supervisory board were given sufficient opportunity to deal
critically with the reports and motions submitted by the executive board and to table recommendations.
the results obtained and the essential contributions made during the discussions held at committee
meetings were presented at the respective following supervisory board meeting by the chairmen of the
presiding and the audit committees and assisted the full board in forming an opinion. this way, the
preparatory and in-depth work undertaken by the committees was instrumental in enhancing the overall
efficiency of the activities of the supervisory board.

furthermore, the chairmen of the supervisory board and the committees maintained regular contact
with the executive board and mutually kept each other informed of essential matters. between the
meetings, the chairman of the supervisory board and the chairman of the executive board regularly
discussed issues relating to strategy, the state of play of the implementation of the “fit for 2020” project
and acquisition projects, as well as matters relating to planning, business progress, risk exposure, risk
management and compliance. in this context, the chairman of the supervisory board was also regularly
and promptly informed about the prospects of the group and its operational units, as well as further
important developments and upcoming decisions. outside of meetings, the chairman of the audit
committee remained in contact with members of the executive board, in particular the chief financial
officer, to keep abreast of current developments relevant to the work of the audit committee and to
discuss them, if necessary. in preliminary meetings with the executive board, the employee
representatives regularly deliberated on the most important agenda items prior to the meetings of the
full supervisory board.

on a regular basis, the supervisory board was provided with comprehensive information on the order
intake, revenue, earnings and employment situation of the group, its business units and the other
companies, as well as discontinued operations. detailed explanations on differences between business
development and set plans or targets were provided on the basis of supporting documents. prior to and
between the meetings, the executive board delivered written reports on significant events to the
members of the supervisory board. following deliberations at committee level, the future prospects and
the strategic orientation of the company and its business units, as well as corporate planning, were
extensively discussed and agreed with the supervisory board.




                                           gea annual report 2015                                              17

                                           report of the supervisory board




     after extensive scrutiny and deliberations and following discussions at committee level, as the case may
     be, the members of the supervisory board cast their votes on the reports and motions for resolution
     submitted by the executive board insofar as this was appropriate or required by law, the provisions of
     the articles of association or the rules of procedure. for reasons duly substantiated, in particular in
     matters of special urgency, resolutions were adopted by written procedure.

     in the year under review, there were no conflicts of interest involving members of the executive board or
     the supervisory board that would have required immediate disclosure to the supervisory board and
     communication to the annual general meeting.

     focal points of supervisory board deliberations
     in the fiscal year 2015, the supervisory board held seven meetings. on these occasions, the supervisory
     board regularly discussed matters relating to the company‘s business progress, its financial position,
     share price performance as well as the progress and the implementation of group restructuring within
     the framework of the “fit for 2020” project. apart form that, the focal points mentioned below were up
     for discussion.

     key items on the agenda of the conference call supervisory board meeting held on february 3, 2015,
     included the early capital markets information as well as the dividend distribution proposal.

     key items on the agenda of the supervisory board meeting held on march 5, 2015, included the approval
     and adoption of the annual financial statements and the consolidated financial statements for the fiscal
     year 2014, including the appropriation of net earnings. at this meeting, the supervisory board finally
     determined and weighted the executive board members‘ individual targets for the fiscal year 2015;
     moreover, it focused on the examination of efficiency recommended under the german corporate
     governance code in relation to the activities of the supervisory board.

     the meeting of the supervisory board held on april 16, 2015, mainly served the purpose of preparing the
     annual general meeting which took place immediately afterwards.

     the meeting held on june 25, 2015, focused on board matters as mr. hüllmann had expressed the wish
     not to extend his mandate on gea’s executive board with the intention of setting up his own business, as
     well as information on ongoing m&a projects. apart from that, the board members addressed the
     acquisition of hilge, a pump manufacturing company.
     on september 22 and 23, 2015, the supervisory board met at gea’s site in naperville, usa. at its
     extraordinary meeting on september 22, the supervisory board took an in-depth look at gea’s country
     organization in latin and north america. in this context, the board members engaged in an intensive
     exchange of views with gea’s regional and country managers in latin and north america, discussing
     their respective regional organizations, strategies and business models. the meeting held on
     september 23 saw the final deliberations on markus hüllmann’s succession on the executive board.
     during this meeting, the supervisory board approved the appointment of messrs. bersch and olsen to
     the executive board with effect from january 1, 2016. moreover, the supervisory board also discussed the
     implementation of the statutory quota of women both at executive board and supervisory board levels.
     in connection with the “fit for 2020“ project, the supervisory board spoke extensively about the topic of
     shared services. in this context, the provider chosen to run the shared service center was presented and
     given the opportunity to provide an overview of its working methods and the state of play regarding
     implementation. on top of that, the supervisory board received comprehensive reports on the business
     environment, developments in the dairy sector and the ensuing ramifications for gea group.
     the meeting held on december 17, 2015, addressed the budget and medium-term planning. in addition,
     the supervisory board took a close look at the group’s liquidity and capital base. as in previous years, the



18                                             gea annual report 2015

                                     report of the supervisory board




december meeting also centered on current developments in terms of corporate governance, including
the adoption of the 2015 declaration of conformity in line with the corporate governance code and the
revision of the supervisory board’s target composition. further topics included the levels of target
achievement attained by the members of the executive board in 2015, the executive board targets set for
the year 2016, as well as the resolution on the acquisition of the italy-based imaforni company.

work of the committees
the presiding committee met on six occasions including two extraordinary meetings. apart from the
preparation of the supervisory board meetings, the main topics discussed by those present included
succession on the executive board due to mr. hüllmann’s departure at the end of the fiscal year. in its
june 2015 meeting, the presiding committee gave its consent to the acquisition of cmt s.p.a..

the audit committee held five meetings. in the presence of the auditor, the chairman of the executive
board, the chief financial officer as well as the labor relations director, the committee focused on the
2015 quarterly financial statements, the annual financial statements in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year 2014, as well as the chief compliance officer’s
report. furthermore, the committee‘s key activities included dealing with the monitoring of the
accounting process, the effectiveness of the internal control, risk management and internal audit
system as well as the audit of the annual financial accounts. on a regular basis, the audit committee
obtained detailed reports on the company‘s risks and opportunities. the auditors extensively
elaborated on their audit activities and the audit process. in addition, the audit committee submitted
its proposal for the appointment of an auditor to the supervisory board, engaged in awarding the
auditing contract to the auditor, determined the audit process including audit fees while ensuring the
necessary independence of the auditor.

with a view to the next elections to the supervisory board scheduled for 2016, the nomination
committee held one meeting in the year under review.

during the year under review, there was no need to convene a meeting of the mediation committee.

the committee chairmen rendered accounts of the activities undertaken by their specific committees to
the supervisory board at the respective subsequent supervisory board meetings.

corporate governance
the supervisory board is continuously monitoring the development of the corporate governance
standards. at its meeting held on december 17, 2015, it discussed the recommendations and suggestions
of the german corporate governance code as amended in may 2015. following these deliberations, the
executive board and the supervisory board issued an updated declaration of conformity in accordance
with section 161 aktiengesetz (aktg - german stock corporation act) and made it permanently
accessible to the public on the company‘s website. in parallel, the targets defined by the supervisory
board in relation to its composition were revised. further information on corporate governance can be
found in the corporate governance report (see page 64 ff.).

annual financial statements and consolidated
financial statements for 2015
the 2015 annual financial statements of gea group aktiengesellschaft, the consolidated financial
statements prepared in accordance with ifrs and the combined management report were audited by
kpmg ag wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft and received an unqualified audit opinion.




                                          gea annual report 2015                                           19

                                          report of the supervisory board




     in the presence of the auditors, the combined management report, the annual financial statements of
     gea group aktiengesellschaft, the proposal for the appropriation of net earnings as well as the
     consolidated financial statements and the audit reports for the fiscal year 2015 were extensively
     discussed and examined during the meeting of the audit committee on february 26, 2016, and on the
     occasion of the supervisory board meeting for balance sheet approval held on march 3, 2016. the
     auditors reported on the audit process applied and the material findings of their audit. they were also
     available to answer questions.

     on the basis of the final results of the examination performed by the audit committee and after
     conducting its own scrutiny, the supervisory board agreed with the auditors‘ findings at its meeting on
     march 3, 2016, and found that there were no objections to be raised. the supervisory board approved the
     2015 consolidated financial statements, the 2015 annual financial statements of gea group aktien­gesell­
     schaft, as well as the combined management report. the annual financial statements of gea group
     aktiengesellschaft are hereby adopted. the supervisory board considers the proposal for the
     appropriation of net earnings to be reasonable.

     changes in the composition of the supervisory board and the
     executive board
     on december 31, 2015, markus hüllmann resigned from the executive board of gea group aktien-
     gesellschaft at his own request in order to manage his own business. he was succeeded by steffen bersch
     and niels erik olsen who were appointed to the executive board with effect from january 1, 2016.
     moreover, in the light of the stronger operational realignment at executive board and group level, the
     supervisory board, at its meeting held on march 3, 2016, resolved that the executive board position of
     dr. stephan petri would become obsolete in the future. for this reason, dr. petri will leave the company
     by mutual consent with effect from june 30, 2016. as of july 1, 2016, the areas legal affairs and human
     resources including the function of labor relations director will be assumed by mr. oleas. at the same
     meeting, the supervisory board also renewed jürg oleas’s service agreement due to expire at the end of
     the year and extended his appointment as chairman of the executive board and labor relations director
     for another three years until december 31, 2019.

     during the fiscal year 2015, there were no personnel changes on supervisory board level.

     the supervisory board wishes to express its gratitude and appreciation to the senior management
     teams, employee representative bodies and, in particular, to all employees of gea group for their
     personal commitment and dedication as well as their hard work performed in an exceptionally
     challenging fiscal year.



     düsseldorf, march 3, 2016




     dr. jürgen heraeus
     chairman of the supervisory board




20                                            gea annual report 2015

                                                      executive board




executive board of gea group aktiengesellschaft




niels erik olsen    dr. helmut schmale   jürg oleas              steffen bersch     dr. stephan petri


jürg oleas, chairman of the executive board
jürg oleas, a swiss national born on december 8, 1957, in quito, ecuador was appointed chairman of the
executive board with effect from november 1, 2004. his period of office runs until december 31, 2016. he
has been a member of the company’s executive board since may 1, 2001. since the new structure was
introduced in fiscal year 2015, he has been responsible for the business area solutions, several regions,
and the central functions of corporate development and communication, and marketing & branding.
dr. helmut schmale, chief financial officer
born on november 9, 1956, in gelsenkirchen, germany, dr. helmut schmale became chief financial
officer on april 22, 2009, after joining the executive board on april 1, 2009. dr. schmale is responsible for
the areas of finance, investor relations, tax, treasury & corporate finance, as well as for the shared
service center. his period of office runs until march 31, 2018.
steffen bersch, member of the executive board (as from january 1, 2016)
steffen bersch was born on june 12, 1969 in wattenscheid, germany and appointed to the executive board
with effect from january 1, 2016. since the start of 2016, he has been responsible for the business area
equipment. his period of office runs until december 31, 2018.
markus hüllmann, member of the executive board (up to december 31, 2015)
markus hüllmann was born on july 29, 1968 in paderborn, germany and was a member of the executive
board of gea group aktiengesellschaft from april 1, 2013 to december 31, 2015. in fiscal year 2015, he was
responsible for the business area equipment as well as for several regions. markus hüllmann left the
company of his own volition with effect from december 31, 2015 in order to start up his own company.
niels erik olsen, member of the executive board (as from january 1, 2016)
niels erik olsen was born on september 3, 1966 in guldborgsund, denmark and has been a member of the
executive board since january 1, 2016, when he took over responsibility for the business area solutions
from jürg oleas. his period of office runs until december 31, 2018.
dr. stephan petri, member of the executive board and labor relations director
born on february 11, 1964, in traben-trarbach, germany, dr. stephan petri has been the executive board
member responsible for human resources, legal/compliance, internal audit and the group’s other
companies since june 1, 2012. he also performs the function of labor relations director. his period of
office runs until may 31, 2018.




                                                gea annual report 2015                                          21

                    combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




     combined group management report
     fundamental information about the group
     group business model

     combined management report of gea group aktiengesellschaft
     and the gea group
     gea group aktiengesellschaft is the management company for the group. profit and loss transfer
     agreements exist with key domestic subsidiaries. in addition, gea group aktiengesellschaft
     performs central financial and liquidity management. it also provides its subsidiaries with services
     on the basis of service agreements.

     since the course of business, the economic position, and the opportunities and risks associated with
     the future development of gea group aktiengesellschaft do not differ from the course of business,
     the economic position, and the opportunities and risks associated with the future development of the
     group, the management report of gea group aktiengesellschaft has been combined with that of the
     group in accordance with section 315 (3) of the handelsgesetzbuch (hgb – german commercial
     code). in contrast to the consolidated ifrs financial statements, the annual financial statements of
     gea group aktiengesellschaft are based on the hgb, supplemented by the aktiengesetz (aktg –
     german stock corporation act).

     organization and structure
     gea group aktiengesellschaft
     the listed gea group aktiengesellschaft with its new global corporate center performs the essential
     management functions for the entire group. these comprise the group-wide management of strategy,
     human resources, legal, and tax matters, mergers & acquisitions, central financial management,
     internal auditing and marketing.

     the group
     as an international technology group, gea focuses on the development and production of process
     technology and components for sophisticated and efficient production methods in a variety of end
     markets. gea is one of the largest suppliers of systems and components for the food processing
     industry and a wide range of other processing industries.

     the group is a specialist in its respective core technologies and a leader in its sales markets worldwide.
     gea consistently promotes an innovation-led culture, continuously renewing its technological edge. it
     considers profitability more important than volume and practices systematic portfolio management and
     strict cost control. active risk management, stability through diversification, and a focus on the markets
     of the future are binding principles for all gea business units.

     the group’s enduring success is founded on a number of major global trends:

     1. the continuous growth in the global population,
     2. the growing middle class,
     3. the growing demand for high-quality foods and beverages,
     4. the increasing demand for production methods that are efficient and conserve valuable resources.




22                                             gea annual report 2015

               combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




group structure up to june 8, 2015
prior to the implementation on june 8, 2015 of gea’s new group structure, which was developed as
part of the “fit for 2020” initiative, the group was organized in 4 segments, which were allocated to
continued operations. gea process engineering was headed by jürg oleas and gea mechanical
equipment and gea refrigeration technologies by markus hüllmann. dr. stephan petri was
responsible for the gea farm technologies segment.

the “other” reporting segment comprised gea group aktiengesellschaft and those companies with
business activities that did not form part of the core business. in the main, this meant internal
service companies.

detailed in the following are the business segments allocated to continued operations as they existed
prior to the implementation of the new group structure developed as part of the “fit for 2020”
initiative:

gea farm technologies segment
the integrated product solutions for profitable dairy and livestock farming were bundled together in the
gea farm technologies segment. the segment’s combined expertise in the areas of milking and milk-
cooling technology, automatic feeding systems, manure management systems, and barn equipment has
made gea the leading manufacturer in this field and provides modern farming with a complete range of
products and solutions. services and animal hygiene solutions round off its profile as a full-line systems
provider for farms of all sizes. the sales strategy is built on a global network of specialist dealers as well
as sales and service partners.

gea mechanical equipment segment
the portfolio of gea’s mechanical equipment segment comprised separators, decanters, valves,
pumps, and homogenizers. in virtually all key areas of industry, this equipment ensures perfectly
functioning processes while giving rise to cost-optimized production cycles. process technology for
secondary food processing and packaging extends the product portfolio, with the offering ranging
from individual machines to end-to-end production lines. gea helps ensure high product quality,
reduce customers’ production costs, and sustainably protect the environment.

gea process engineering segment
gea process engineering was responsible for the design and development of process solutions for
the dairy, brewing, food, pharma, and chemical industries. gea is an acknowledged market and
technology leader in its business areas: liquid processing, concentration, industrial drying, powder
processing and handling, and emission control.

gea refrigeration technologies segment
gea is a market leader in the field of industrial refrigeration technology. its refrigeration
technologies segment designed, engineered, and installed technological solutions and innovative key
components for its customers. gea’s product range comprises the core components of reciprocating
and screw compressors, valves, chillers, ice generators and freezing systems. to guarantee complete
customer satisfaction, gea also offers a broad range of maintenance and other services.




                                           gea annual report 2015                                                23

                      combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




     group structure since june 8, 2015

                                                     executive board
        business area equipment                  business area solutions
       product   product   supply equipment   technology    application      solutions      global          shared
     engineering manage-   chain    service     centers      centers          service      corporate        service
          &       ment       &
      develop-      &    production                                                         center          center
        ment      sales


                                                     regions & countries
            north                latin          western europe,               dach            north-          asia
           america              america          middle east                     &               &           pacific
                                                      &                   eastern europe   central europe
                                                    africa




                                                         45
                                                country organizations




     following intensive preparations, gea’s new group structure – which was developed as part of its
     “fit for 2020” initiative – was implemented on june 8, 2015. with this new structure, gea aims to
     bring about substantial savings, promote further growth, and enhance its customer orientation.

     known as “onegea”, this new integrated structure will see the development and manufacturing of
     products, and the provision of process solutions and services bundled in two new business areas (ba)
     – equipment and solutions. in the year under review, the business area equipment was headed at
     board level by markus hüllmann, while jürg oleas was responsible for the business area solutions.

     the previous operating segments of the group were reorganized as a result. thus, the former gea
     mechanical equipment and gea farm technologies segments were allocated to the business area
     equipment, while gea process engineering now belongs to the business area solutions. the former
     gea refrigeration technologies segment was split between the business areas equipment and
     solutions, with the goodwill attributable to the former segment being reallocated based on the
     relative values as of the reorganization date.

     this new structure with two business areas of roughly equal size and strength promises greater
     operational synergies across technologies and applications, and helps achieve functional excellence
     by standardizing processes.

     the “other companies” area comprises gea group aktiengesellschaft and those companies with
     business activities that do not form part of the core business. these include companies that report




24                                                  gea annual report 2015

              combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




investment property held for sale, and pension obligations. the management report refers to this
area only selectively.

operating segments

business area equipment
the business area equipment brings together all activities ranging from customer-specific to largely
standardized equipment offerings. the products are mainly manufactured as part of series production
on a standardized and modular basis. typical products of the business area include separators, valves,
pumps, homogenizers, and refrigeration equipment such as compressors. the portfolio of equipment
also includes process technology for food processing and packaging. the product range also extends to
dairy equipment, feeding systems, and slurry engineering.

business area solutions
the business area solutions brings together all group activities that largely consist of marketing
customer-specific and modular solutions, and projects. this business area tailors its products and
services to the specific application or customer requirements. the offering mainly comprises the
design and development of process solutions for the dairy processing, brewing, food and beverages,
pharma, and chemical industries.

organizational units

national organizations
the new structure unifies customer-centric sales and service activities under the umbrella of a single
country organization, with the countries grouped under newly created regions. gea’s reporting
processes are also geared to the new regional structure. gea’s customers now have a single national
organization per country as the central point of contact offering the entire product portfolio and all
services on a local basis. bringing together the previous large number of sales and service companies
will strengthen local competencies, realize existing potential synergies even more efficiently, and
raise awareness of the common brand gea in the market. the national organizations are each led by
a managing director and are divided into two categories, depending on the market’s size and growth
potential. the large and medium-sized national organizations have separate functions for equipment
sales and solutions sales. in addition, they have a service business, a supply chain function (including
local logistics, warehousing, and local procurement), and operational marketing. a small national
organization has a joint sales organization and a service business. the countries are in turn grouped
under six regions. a regional head, which is at the same time a managing director of a country of this
region and agrees on country strategies, drives forward market entries, coordinates activities between
countries, and allocates resources across countries.

administration
the administrative functions were streamlined and more strongly standardized, and will now be
managed considerably more centrally, in order to ensure uniform high process standards globally as
well as cost savings. the global corporate center is the central port of call for all supporting
management and administrative functions, which so far have mostly been organized locally at the
operating units. a shared service center with two locations will take care of the implementation of




                                         gea annual report 2015                                            25

                       combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




     standardized administrative processes in the future, thus reducing the workload for the operating
     units. the expenses of the global corporate center and of the shared service centers will be
     allocated to the business areas wherever possible.

     discontinued operations
     discontinued operations comprise the remaining risks from the sale of gea heat exchangers and of
     the plant engineering activities, especially lurgi and lentjes, and the continued process of
     winding-up past discontinued operations, including individual legal disputes arising from them.

     capital expenditure
     gea develops and engineers specialized components, largely on a make-to-order basis, and also
     designs process solutions for a broad range of customer industries. the focus is on the food and
     beverage sectors. with its global engineering and production network, the group is able to provide
     customers with solutions that are precisely tailored to their individual requirements. customers also
     benefit from our flexible production concepts, which ensure fast throughput and low costs, and
     minimize the capital tied up.

     as in the previous year, the main portion by far of capital expenditure amounting to eur 90.7 million
     (previous year: eur 93.8 million) went on research and development, and on new products
     (49.4 percent). the development of a new generation of the robot milker and of the dairyproq fully
     automated milking system are good examples in this context. replacement investments accounted for
     20.8 percent of total capital expenditure, followed by rationalization projects, which accounted for
     14.0 percent. eur 61.4 million of the capital expenditure was attributable to the business area
     equipment, and eur 23.5 million to the business area solutions.



     capital expenditure in tangible and intangible assets                                     8.9
     per type
     (in %)
                                                                                 14.0

                                                                                                     49.4
                                                                               6.9
        new products/r&d
        replacement
        growth
        rationalisation                                                                 20.8
        others




     in regional terms, capital expenditure focused primarily on germany (58.7 percent) and the rest of
     western europe (26.6 percent), due to the high proportion of research and development activities in
     these areas.




26                                               gea annual report 2015

                   combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




capital expenditure in tangible and intangible assets
                                                                                        9.2
by region
                                                                                  5.5
(in %)




   germany                                                                 26.6
                                                                                                58.7
   western europe (without germany)
   asia pacific
   other regions




procurement
in 2015, the procurement volume of gea’s continuing operations amounted to around eur 2.2 billion.
on average, the price of virtually all the finished and semifinished industrial products purchased by gea
in the procurement market fell moderately in comparison to the previous year. the drop in raw material
prices also had a positive impact on gea in 2015. that said, the sale of the former gea heat exchangers
segment significantly reduced direct copper and aluminum purchases, so that stainless steel became the
focus of raw material procurement. however, directly purchased stainless steel made up a relatively
small proportion of the total requirement of this commodity as gea buys most of its stainless steel from
the market in the form of processed products.

gea will continue to focus on strategic purchasing and also standardizing and consolidating cross-
segment procurement activities in order to reduce the risk of fluctuating prices and to guarantee
security of supply.

the universal gea class material group classification provides the information needed to do this. as
well as giving highly detailed insight into supplier data and how the procurement volume breaks
down by region, the system also forms the basis for defining strategies for the principal commodity
groups, and is available to all purchasing agents at gea. the gea procurement council (gpc) is
responsible for the system. in 2015, the gpc was further engaged in unifying intensively the group’s
strategic procurement operations.

the new onegea organization aims to advance and provide significant support to the enduring
policy of collaboration adopted by the gpc. founded on two robust supply-chain units embedded in
the business areas equipment and solutions, the new organization provides a raft of opportunities
for further consolidating strategic suppliers and deriving synergies from the standardization of
material specifications.




                                             gea annual report 2015                                         27

                    combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




     management system

     basis of information
     group reports are prepared with the aid of standard applications that are precisely tailored to the
     needs of gea and subject to continuous enhancement. standard reports prepared on the basis of
     unified data are used throughout the group to report net assets, financial position, and results of
     operations. these standard reports are supplemented by special analyses as well as analyses and
     reports related to specific businesses and strategic measures. corporate planning, which – besides
     several forecasts for the current year, and the budget – covers a further two planning years, is based
     on the same reporting and consolidation system as that used for the reporting of actual figures. risk
     reporting, too, is founded on the same technical basis. within the framework of the onegea project,
     group reporting was further developed and adapted to fit the new management structures.

     routine reporting procedures are supplemented by committee meetings that provide members of the
     group management with an opportunity to share information on strategic and operational issues.
     meetings of the executive board of gea group aktiengesellschaft and of the extended management
     board (global leadership team), which comprises the executive board members, the top management of
     the two business areas, the heads of the six sales regions and representatives of the global corporate
     center (gcc) finance, are held once a month. the executive board meetings concentrate on issues of
     relevance to the group as a whole, whereas decisions with a direct impact on the business areas and
     regions are prepared in meetings of the global leadership team, before passing to the executive board
     for approval. in addition, regular meetings are held with the individual business areas. these are
     attended by the competent executive board member along with the heads of the respective business
     area, and business partners of gcc finance. such meetings entail detailed discussions of the net assets,
     financial position, results of operations, and business development of the business area concerned.
     separate meetings for each business area are also held to discuss earnings for the latest fiscal year and
     the business plan for the following years.

     key performance indicators
     gea’s overriding goal is to secure a sustainable increase in enterprise value. operational management is
     based on the key drivers that have an immediate influence on value creation, with growth, operating
     efficiency, and liquidity management (see page 100). for this reason, the key performance indicators for
     gea remain revenue, earnings, and the cash flow driver margin. whereas these indicators were adjusted
     additionally for acquisition and exchange rate effects in fiscal year 2015 for the purpose of analyzing and
     managing earnings, these adjustments will no longer take place as from 2016. acquisitions effected after
     the reporting date will not be taken into account in the forecast.

     with respect to earnings, the company focuses on operating ebitda. gea defines “operating” as
     adjusted for effects resulting from the remeasurement of assets added due to acquisitions, and for
     expenses that are non-recurring in terms of their nature or magnitude. the cash flow driver margin
     (i.e. the net amount of ebitda, the change in average working capital, and capital expenditures for
     property, plant, and equipment, and intangible assets) is also adjusted for non-recurring items. gea
     also regularly collates a range of other performance indicators in order to obtain a meaningful
     picture of the overall situation.




28                                             gea annual report 2015

               combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




revenue is analyzed by region and customer industry on a monthly basis in order to identify emerging
market trends as early as possible. in this context, we also evaluate leading indicators: the gea demand
index (gdi – see page 88) and order intake.

to enable a rapid response to developments, the business areas are also required to return regular
forecasts – for the quarters and for the year as whole – for the key performance indicators revenue and
operating ebitda. in addition, these reports include forecasts of other performance indicators such as
order intake and ebit.

in order to create the requisite financial scope to achieve strategic growth and to focus the group even
more closely on cash flow generation, a new key performance indicator – the cash flow driver margin
-was introduced in 2012 and was also incorporated into the bonus system for senior management. since
2014, this system has also been applied to a larger group of employees.

the return on capital employed (roce), calculated as the ratio of ebit to capital employed, provides a
further performance indicator for measuring the value added that is generated by the group’s operating
activities. it therefore figures in both the group’s regular reporting activities and the calculation of
variable, performance-related elements of management remuneration. in order to anchor roce even
more strongly at an operational level, the roce drivers ebit and ebit margin, working capital – the key
driver of capital employed – and the ratio of working capital to revenue are monitored continuously.
when calculating capital employed, effects arising from the acquisition of the former gea ag by the
former metallgesellschaft ag in 1999 are not taken into account.

the difference between the expected roce and the weighted average cost of capital (wacc) is a key
criterion for investment and portfolio decisions. the group calculates wacc on the basis of the
following factors: the cost of equity, based on the return yielded by an alternative, risk-free investment
plus a market risk premium and the beta factor, actual borrowing costs, and the rate used to discount
pension obligations.

management of capital employed
resources are allocated within the group primarily on the basis of strategic and medium-term
planning. this provides the framework for preparing key decisions on core technologies, sales
markets, and other strategically important variables.

acquisitions and expansion investments are assessed not only on the basis of key performance
indicators showing potential returns, but also in terms of their importance for achieving the group’s
strategic goals. the key economic criterion for evaluating rationalization and expansion investments
is the net present value. the payback period is also calculated as an additional benchmark for
assessing the risk arising from changing economic conditions.

working capital is another key element of capital employed. working capital management begins
before an order is accepted with the payment terms that are offered or negotiated.




                                           gea annual report 2015                                            29

                    combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




     project- and activity-based management
     in addition to general management with the aid of the key performance indicators described above, the
     group has established individual assessment and approval procedures for customer and investment
     projects, utilizing specific thresholds for the different hierarchy levels. customer projects are evaluated
     primarily on the basis of their expected margins (gross margin on a fully absorbed cost basis) and of their
     commercial and contractual risk profile, with a particular emphasis on cash flow. project management is
     also backed up by extensive project control not only at operating unit level but also – depending on the size
     of the project involved – at business area or group level in the form of a separate reporting system for
     major projects. in many cases, the findings gained from this analysis yield suggestions for improving
     internal processes, which can be used in subsequent projects. at group level, the analysis focuses on
     deviations between the calculated and the expected or realized contract margin.

     compliance
     compliance in the sense of measures designed to ensure adherence to legal, statutory and internal
     corporate policies, as well as compliance therewith by group companies, is considered to be a key
     management and supervisory responsibility at gea. for this purpose, the company established a
     compliance organization some years ago. corruption prevention, antitrust law, export control, and
     data protection are the focus of group-wide compliance activities. the chief compliance officer
     coordinates the implementation of compliance measures, especially in these areas. in this function,
     he reports to both the executive board and the supervisory board’s audit committee. the chief
     compliance officer is assisted in his duties by the legal compliance and operating export control
     organization. gea’s extensive compliance program is rounded off by classroom and web-based
     training sessions for the group employees responsible for compliance, as well as by the integrity
     system, which was introduced throughout gea worldwide in 2014. further information on
     compliance can be found in the corporate governance report (see page 64 ff.).

     remuneration system and financial performance management
     changes in the key value drivers are also reflected in the remuneration of employees not covered by
     collective agreements. variable salary components dependent on company performance are determined
     on the basis of the cash flow driver margin and roce. in addition, performance-related remuneration
     depends on the achievement of personal goals, of which at least one must be measurable in financial
     terms. a further remuneration component is based on gea’s share price performance in relation to the
     benchmark index, the stoxx® europe tmi industrial engineering (tmi ie).




30                                              gea annual report 2015

               combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




research and development
in today’s global markets, an engineering corporation such as gea needs to show an enduring
commitment to permanently enhancing its own processes and technologies. it is this culture of
innovation that helps secure its enduring commercial success. in addition to pursuing its own intensive
research and development activities, the group also supports cooperative research projects with its
customers and suppliers.

gea’s focus on product leadership is underpinned by the fact that around 40 percent of the company’s
employees are engineers or perform engineering-related roles. over 800 of these employees are
assigned to product development. as a result of their work, gea companies filed applications for a total
of 114 (previous year: 109) new patent families in the past fiscal year.

the culture of innovation at gea can also be seen from its innovation competitions. the gea innovation
contest, which has been running with great success for a number of years now, provides a showcase for
development projects that are potentially less than twelve months away from marketability. the winners
of various pre-selection competitions get to present their projects during one day of the annual
international meeting of the group’s senior managers, who then rate the most promising developments
in terms of four criteria, namely market opportunities, earnings potential, chance of realization, and
level of innovation. four new products received awards in 2015, spanning areas such as the manufacture of
instant coffee, automatic livestock milking, self-priming centrifugal pumps, and the fermentation process
of dough.

in conventional coffee bean extraction for the manufacture of instant coffee powder, the final yield
barely exceeds 50 percent. the award-winning process represents a completely new concept. the
enhanced two-stage grinding process increases the surface area of the coffee powder, thus paving the
way for gentler aroma extraction and hydrolysis at a lower temperature level. all this results in a better
taste experience more closely resembling that of fresh coffee, not to mention a reduction in energy
consumption. the next stage in the manufacturing process is enzyme treatment to break down a
greater proportion of the ground coffee, thereby considerably increasing the yield to an impressive
70 percent. this represents a significant advance, as over two-thirds of the entire cost of manufacturing
instant coffee goes on the coffee beans themselves. all in all, the increased yield and improved taste
clearly add value for gea customers, and costs are expected to be amortized quickly.

automatic milking systems are becoming increasingly popular – not only among large dairy farms, but
also among smaller ones also seeking to benefit from greater flexibility in their daily routine, improved
ergonomics at the workplace and more efficient use of their personnel resources. with a view to meeting
the needs of very differently-sized farms, gea has developed a unique platform technology in respect of
which a number of patent applications have been filed. the modular platform covers the entire range of
milking systems, from single-box milking robots all the way to rotary milking parlors. this new
generation of milking robots is more efficient and easier to install. it has also helped to improve animal
health monitoring and reduce customers’ operating costs.




                                          gea annual report 2015                                             31

                    combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




     centrifugal pumps are used to convey low-viscosity liquids from one container to the next. although
     conventional centrifugal pumps ensure efficiency and hygiene as well as gentle product handling, they
     are not self-priming. self-priming additionally enables the pumps to convey liquids containing gas or
     foam, or to evacuate gas from extensive pipe systems before suctioning liquids. in the past, liquid ring
     pumps were generally used. although self-priming was possible with these pumps, they did not offer the
     advantages outlined above. the gea tps variflow is a new, self-priming centrifugal pump that
     combines the functional principles and benefits of both types of pump. a patent application has been
     filed for its newly developed flow control system.

     large industrial bakeries are becoming increasingly important. such establishments are particularly
     interested in a continuous production process that makes efficient use of the available production
     space. this process generally involves a proofer, in which the bread or yeast dough is exposed to a
     warmer temperature and humidity during fermentation. allowing the fermentation process to take
     place on the conveyor belt, or rather on a spiral belt, makes optimum use of the available production
     space, while simultaneously cutting energy costs. gea is already applying this kind of spiral
     technology successfully in the form of the gea froster s-tec. to transform this spiral froster into a
     spiral proofer, the air temperature has to be raised from minus 18 °c to plus 28 °c – among a number
     of other modifications. this gea innovation contest award winner also succeeded in developing an
     innovative air distribution system and adding an ultrasonic air humidifier. gea spiral technology can
     thus be used to tap into a new growth market.

     as a result of this intensive research and development work, gea succeeded in launching many new
     products in the past fiscal year, too, and presented them at more than 200 trade fairs. at the anuga
     foodtec fair, for example, gea took home no fewer than three prizes: two of the four dairy technology
     awards – for the efficient gea ecoforce decanter family, and for gea provident flow analysis, a tool
     that integrates and optimizes overall production management in food processes – and an international
     foodtec award gold medal in the process technology category for the gea multidrum. this machine
     sets new standards in the application of homestyle breading, increasing performance in terms of
     efficiency and a cleaner work environment. gea also presented an innovative freeze concentration
     system for the first time at the anuga foodtec fair. this offers customers significantly lower acquisition
     and operating costs, while cutting space requirements by half. it was achieved by switching from a
     batch process to a patent-pending continuous process in which fruit juice, coffee, milk or delicate
     enzyme solutions are cooled until ice forms. the crystallizer ensures that an optimum amount of larger
     ice crystals is formed. this suspension is then separated into the concentrate and the ice in the
     downstream wash column. fruit juice concentrate can be transported more cheaply and in a more
     environmentally friendly manner than the fruit juice itself. coffee concentrate is processed into instant
     coffee and enzyme concentrates can be used, for example, to manufacture drugs. the competing
     alternatives to freeze concentration are vacuum evaporation and reverse osmosis. since the
     temperatures used in these processes are only slightly higher, only very few vitamins are lost, for




32                                             gea annual report 2015

                     combined group management report / fundamental information about the group




example. however, with vacuum evaporation in particular, many volatile aromas are lost with the
water and cannot all be retrieved.

in 2015, direct expenditure on research and development (r&d) before non-recurring items
amounted to eur 76.5 million, compared with eur 77.7 million in the prior-year period. these
figures also include refunded expenses (contract costs), which are reported in the cost of sales and
which totaled eur 10.8 million (previous year: eur 9.6 million). the r&d ratio remained unchanged
at 1.7 percent of revenue. in the reporting period, depreciation of capitalized development projects
amounted to eur 10.2 million. the capitalized development costs remained unchanged at 0.7 percent
of revenue. cash disbursements for research and development amounted to eur 100.6 million,
compared with eur 96.1 million in the previous year.

research and development (r&d) expenses                                                             change
(eur million)                                                                   2015         2014     in %
refunded expenses (contract costs)                                               10.8         9.6     12.3
non-refunded r&d expenses before non-recurring items                             65.8        68.1     –3.5
total r&d expenses                                                               76.5        77.7     –1.6
r&d ratio (as % of revenue)                                                       1.7         1.7        –
total r&d cash disbursements                                                    100.6        96.1      4.7
r&d ratio (as % of revenue)                                                       2.2         2.1        –




                                                       gea annual report 2015                                33

                          combined group management report / report on economic position




     report on economic position
     gea in fiscal year 2015
     the forecast for fiscal year 2015 assumed that demand in gea’s sales markets would moderately
     exceed the high levels seen in 2014. contrary to this assumption, growth in the emerging markets, in
     particular, was more sluggish than predicted at the start of 2015. indeed, during the second half of the
     year, the international monetary fund (imf) also had to reduce its forecast for global economic
     growth, adjusting the figures in the updates to the “world economic outlook” downwards in july and
     again in october (see page 35 f.). growth was slower than initially forecasted in both the
     industrialized nations and the emerging markets – i.e. in all of gea’s key markets (see imf, world
     economic outlook, january 2016 update).


     growth rate projections


                                  january         april           july         october         actual
                                    2015          2015            2015          2015            2015


               outlook
                                3.5%            3.5%           3.3%           3.1%           3.1%
                of imf

                                 moderate                                     moderate
               outlook
                                  organic                                      growth        1.9%
                gea
                                  growth




     against a backdrop of ongoing weakness in the global economy – particularly in the emerging
     economies, including china – and a further reduction in iwf expectations for economic growth in
     2015, gea also reduced its growth target for revenue in the third quarter. measures to improve the
     earnings situation, however, coupled with a reduction in the investment volume enabled the group to
     raise expectations slightly for the cash flow driver margin in the financial report for the third quarter.

     as announced in september 2015, gea generated moderate revenue growth of 1.9 percent in 2015.
     adjusted for exchange rate and acquisition effects, however, organic growth in revenue decreased by
     4.2 percent. therefore, the moderate rise in revenue adjusted for exchange rate and acquisition
     effects predicted at the start of 2015 did not materialize. as expected, the former gea refrigeration
     technologies segment posted above-average organic growth. the former gea mechanical equipment
     and gea process engineering segments posted slightly below average growth, which was also
     expected. the main reason for the surprisingly weak revenue figures of the former gea farm
     technologies segment was the noticeable slump in milk prices.

     in the 2014 annual report, operating ebitda adjusted for exchange rate and acquisition effects of
     between eur 580 million and eur 620 million was predicted for 2015. operating ebitda actually
     amounted to eur 621.0 million in the fiscal year. these figures include positive exchange rate and
     acquisition effects of eur 26.6 million and eur 8.7 million respectively. thus, the ebitda figure of
     eur 585.7 million, which is comparable with the forecast, was within the defined target range.




34                                            gea annual report 2015

                               combined group management report / report on economic position




however, the target range of eur 590 to eur 640 million set in the first quarter of 2015 was slightly
missed.

a target of between 9.0 and 9.5 percent was originally set for the cash flow driver margin adjusted for
exchange rate and acquisition effects in 2015. the predicted value was raised to between 9.5 and
10.0 percent in the financial report for the third quarter. ultimately, a cash flow driver margin adjusted
for non-recurring items and acquisition effects of 10.6 percent was achieved in the reporting year. when
not adjusted for acquisition effects, however, the value was 10.3 percent, which means that even the
increased target range was exceeded by far.

on april 16, 2015, gea group aktiengesellschaft’s annual general meeting approved the proposal by
the supervisory board and executive board to pay a dividend of eur 0.70 per share for fiscal year
2014, up from eur 0.60 per share. this means that the distribution to the shareholders for 2015 was
in line with the new target of 40 to 50 percent of group earnings.



gea achieved fy 2015 targets
(eur million)

revenue                                         operating ebitda                          cash-flow-driver-margin

                             ∆ +1.9 %                          ∆ +5.1 %
                                                                                                             10.6 %
          ∆ –4.2 %                                                                            10.1 %

  4,516                                 4,599                                    621                          482
                     4,325                        591            586                            457




fy 2014 organic fy 2015 adjust- fy 2015         gj 2014 organic fy 2015 adjust- fy 2015       fy 2014        fy 2015
        change adjusted ment reported                   change adjusted ment reported




macroeconomic environment
as a global engineering company, gea considers growth in gross domestic product (gdp) and hence
the international monetary fund’s (imf) associated assessments to be the key benchmark for its own
development. the objective is, that gea’s growth exceeds the global economy’s growth.

according to its latest estimates for 2015, the imf is looking at global economic growth of 3.1 percent
(world economic outlook, january 2016) – at the start of 2015, the imf had predicted gdp growth of
3.5 percent.

above all the slowing of economic activity in china and its reorientation away from investment and
industrial goods toward services and consumer goods had a detrimental effect on prospects for global
economic growth, according to the imf. what is more, low energy and commodity prices, in
particular the enduring slump in the price of oil, were hampering growth in the oil-exporting nations.




                                                        gea annual report 2015                                         35

                          combined group management report / report on economic position




     at the same time, demand for oil had not risen on the same scale as witnessed during previous low-
     price phases, despite the lower costs. an additional risk, according to the experts at the imf, was the
     gradual change in monetary policy in the u.s.a.

     specifically, the imf has determined a preliminary growth rate of 1.9 percent for the industrialized
     nations in 2015, after 1.8 percent in the previous year. the eurozone economy continued to grow last year
     (from 0.9 percent in 2014 to 1.5 percent in 2015). growth in the u.s.a. had increased to 2.5 percent in
     2015, up from 2.4 percent in 2014. by contrast, the experts at the imf are expecting growth in germany to
     contract slightly by 0.1 percentage points in 2015, down to 1.5 percent.

     according to the imf, economic growth in the emerging markets fell from 4.6 percent in 2014 to
     4.0 percent in 2015 – the fifth year in a row in which growth had contracted. even more significant was
     the slump in the russian economy, where growth fell to –3.7 percent in 2015 after a positive figure of
     0.6 percent a year earlier. the imf forecasts for china make just as gloomy reading. here, economic
     growth fell by a further 0.4 percentage points in 2015, down to 6.9 percent. economic growth is thought
     to have further slowed in latin america, declining to –0.3 percent from 1.3 percent in 2014.



     significant changes

     new group structure
     following intensive preparations, gea’s new group structure – which was developed as part of its
     “fit for 2020” initiative – was implemented on june 8, 2015. as part of this new structure, the
     development and manufacturing of products and the provision of process solutions have been
     bundled in two new business areas – equipment and solutions (see page 24 f.).

     gea’s plans to implement a new group structure are proceeding according to schedule. key
     milestones along the path to implementing the target organization, some of which affect germany,
     the country with the most gea employees, have now been reached. negotiations with the group
     works council concerning the measures and the options for managing restructuring in a socially
     responsible way have been concluded. outside germany, implementation is also progressing
     according to plan. by the end of the fiscal year, the workforce had already been reduced by more than
     800 full-time equivalents as a result of the initiative.
     for reporting purposes, the figures for the months prior to the switch-over and the figures for the
     previous year were aligned to the new reporting structure.

     with the project “fit for 2020” project, the target is to achieve annual cost savings of at least
     eur 125 million as from 2017. based on today’s business volume, the implementation measures will
     probably result in a net reduction in global personnel capacity of around 1,450 equivalents.

     acquisitions
     on january 2, 2015, gea completed the purchase of shares in the dutch group de klokslag which was
     acquired on october 6, 2014 (see page 30 of the 2014 annual report). the de klokslag group
     companies are among the leading manufacturers of large-scale equipment for semi-hard cheese




36                                            gea annual report 2015

                    combined group management report / report on economic position




production and used to be part of the former process engineering segment which has now been
integrated in the new business area solutions. the company, which has around 90 employees,
generated revenue of more than eur 30 million in fiscal year 2014. as a result of this acquisition,
gea is now a full solution provider in this growing segment of the dairy industry.

the takeover of the italian company comas was completed on june 19, 2015. comas is one of the
leading european manufacturers of machinery and equipment for sophisticated processes in the
production of bakery goods. based in torrebelvicino, the company had a workforce of 155 employees
and generated revenue of around eur 50 million in accordance with local gaap in the last fiscal
year, mainly in europe and asia. as an established supplier in this industry, comas will join the
business area solutions to form the application center bakery.

on the same date, june 19, 2015, gea also completed the acquisition of cmt, a leading supplier of
machinery and integrated process lines for pasta filata cheeses (fresh mozzarella and pizza cheese).
the company, which is based in peveragno, italy, had around 70 employees and generated revenue of
eur 11 million in accordance with local gaap in 2014, primarily in the european union countries.
gea intends to integrate this business into its application center dairy in the business area
solutions.

on september 30, 2015, gea acquired hilge, a leading supplier of hygienic pumps that specializes in
stainless steel pumps for the food and beverage industries. the takeover was completed in the third
quarter of 2015 after approval had been obtained from relevant antitrust authorities. the acquisition
has enabled gea to expand its portfolio in the field of heavy-duty hygienic pumps and reinforce its
position as a provider of system solutions for use in hygienic and aseptic process environments.
based in bodenheim, germany, the company has a workforce of around 150 employees and generated
revenue of around eur 35 million in fiscal year 2014. hilge’s business was integrated into the
business area equipment of gea.

management
on september 23, 2015, the supervisory board of gea group aktiengesellschaft appointed two long-
standing gea managers, the german steffen bersch and the dane niels erik olsen, to the company’s
executive board with effect from january 1, 2016. steffen bersch will assume responsibility for the
business area equipment, while niels erik olsen will be in charge of the business area solutions.

the appointments follow in the wake of the decision by previous board member, markus hüllmann,
to acquire and operate a company that is not in competition with gea. mr. hüllmann left the group
with effect from december 31, 2015.

thus, gea will be managed by a team of five executive board members as of january 1, 2016 (see page 63).




                                         gea annual report 2015                                            37

                            combined group management report / report on economic position




     course of business
     the following explanation of the group’s course of business relates initially to its continuing operations,
     i.e. to the group’s two operating business areas. the quarterly information contained in this
     management report is sourced from quarterly reports that were not reviewed by an auditor. all
     amounts have been rounded using standard rounding rules. adding together individual amounts
     may therefore result in rounding differences in certain cases.

     order intake
     the group’s order intake increased by 1.6 percent to eur 4,590.1 million in full-year 2015 (previous
     year: eur 4,519.6 million). adjusted for exchange rate fluctuations and acquisition effects (4.2 and
     1.2 percent respectively), however, growth decreased by 3.8 percent. chiefly responsible for this
     decline were orders in the range of eur 15 million to eur 30 million, whereas projects of above
     eur 30 million in volume recorded a significant increase. in addition, the basic business orders
     (orders of less than eur 1 million) saw very positive growth.


     order intake for the last 5 years
     (eur million)
                                                                            4,627.9   4,519.6    4,590.1
                                                                  4,425.4
                                                        3,986.7




                                                         2011      2012      2013       2014       2015




     growth in order intake in the last quarter of the reporting year is particularly worthy of note, where
     the posted figure of eur 1,245.5 million even surpassed that of the previous record quarter (second
     quarter of 2013: eur 1,220.0 million). major orders from various industries helped produce the new
     record level.

                                                                                                                    adjusted
     order intake                                                                                          change    growth
     (eur million)                                                              2015              2014       in %      in %
     ba equipment                                                             2,293.0           2,295.1      –0.1      –5.0
     ba solutions                                                             2,495.6           2,423.4       3.0      –2.5
     total                                                                    4,788.6           4,718.5       1.5      –3.7
     consolidation/others                                                      –198.5           –198.9        0.2         –
     gea                                                                      4,590.1           4,519.6       1.6      –3.8




38                                              gea annual report 2015

                             combined group management report / report on economic position




order intake applications
(in %, average last 12 months)


                                   dairy farming                                                       14
               food /            dairy processing                                                      22
           beverages                                                                                              72
                                            food                                                       21
                                       beverages                                                       15
                             pharma/chemical                                                           15
              others
                                                                                                       13
                                                                                                                  28
                                 other industries




the largest major orders worth over eur 30 million were won by the business area solutions in the
form of four dairy orders for customers in africa, western europe and the middle east, as well as a
beverage project in asia. all in all, their value amounted to approximately eur 260 million. in the
comparable prior-year period, four major orders were received for almost eur 225 million.


gea order intake eur 4,590.1 million (previous year: eur 4,519.6 million)
by applications (average last 12 months)



140 %



130 %



120 %



110 %



100 %



    90 %



    80 %
                   dec. 14                      mar. 15              jun. 15                 sep. 15    dec. 15

       dairy farming         dairy processing             food      beverages       pharma/chemical
       other industries       gea total









                                                           gea annual report 2015                                      39

                            combined group management report / report on economic position




     order backlog
     the order backlog rose slightly by eur 16.1 million compared with december 31, 2014 (eur 2,037.6 million,)
     to eur 2,053.7 million.

     expressed in terms of the order intake for the fiscal year, the notional order backlog amounted to 5.4
     months (previous year: 5.4 months). in line with the different types of business performed, the order
     backlog ranges from around 3 months in the business area equipment to around 8 months in the
     business area solutions.

     order backlog                                                                                         change     change
     (eur million)                                                          12/31/2015     12/31/2014        in %   (absolute)
     ba equipment                                                               501.9            532.6       –5.8      –30.8
     ba solutions                                                              1,585.4          1,540.2       2.9        45.2
     total                                                                     2,087.3          2,072.8       0.7        14.5
     consolidation/others                                                        –33.5           –35.2        4.7         1.7
     gea                                                                       2,053.7          2,037.6       0.8        16.1


     revenue
     in general, the same regional and sector-specific trends apply to revenue as to order intake, albeit
     with different time lags. however, revenue is less volatile than order intake.

     the revenue figure of eur 4,599.3 million for fiscal year 2015 is another record for gea, and
     constitutes a rise of 1.9% over the prior-year figure of eur 4,515.7 million. adjusted for exchange rate
     fluctuations and acquisition effects (plus 4.7 and 1.4 percent respectively), revenue was 4.2 percent
     under the figure for the previous year. the share of revenue enjoyed by service business rose from
     27.1 percent to 29.4 percent. growth in this area amounted to 10.2 percent in the year under review,
     3.6 percent when adjusted for exchange rate and acquisition effects.


     revenue for the last 5 years
     (eur million)
                                                                                      4,515.7    4,599.3
                                                                            4,320.0
                                                                  4,142.3
                                                        3,828.3




                                                         2011      2012      2013        2014      2015




     the book-to-bill ratio, the ratio of order intake to revenue, was precisely 1.0 in 2015.




40                                              gea annual report 2015

                             combined group management report / report on economic position




                                                                                                          adjusted
sales                                                                                            change    growth
(eur million)                                                                  2015      2014      in %      in %
ba equipment                                                                 2,323.7   2,307.6      0.7      –4.2
ba solutions                                                                 2,475.2   2,404.3      2.9      –3.9
total                                                                        4,798.9   4,711.9      1.8      –4.1
consolidation/others                                                         –199.6    –196.2      –1.7         –
gea                                                                          4,599.3   4,515.7      1.9      –4.2



the adjusted revenue decline affected the food and beverages end market (–3.9 percent) and the
pharma/chemical end market (–5.1 percent). in particular the dairy production, dairy processing and
food customer industries, as well as the pharma and oil and gas industries recorded a significant fall
in business volume. in contrast, the environment and chemical industries, along with the beverages
customer industry recorded considerable, in some cases even double-digit adjusted growth rates.

at a regional level, the decline in the adjusted revenue is attributable to north and central europe
and north america in particular, and to the asia pacific region. this was only partially offset by
revenue growth in, chiefly, germany, austria, switzerland (dach) & eastern europe. as before, the
regions with the highest revenue figures are asia pacific (25 percent), dach & eastern europe
(20 percent), and north america (18 percent).


revenue applications
(in %, average last 12 months)


                                   dairy farming                                                   14
              food /             dairy processing                                                  23
          beverages                                                                                       72
                                            food                                                   22
                                       beverages                                                   13
                            pharma/chemical                                                        12
                others
                                                                                                   16
                                                                                                          28
                                 other industries




                                                    gea annual report 2015                                           41

                                             combined group management report / report on economic position




     gea revenue eur 4,599.3 million (previous year: eur 4,515.7 million)
     by applications (average last 12 months)



     120 %




     110 %




     100 %




       90 %
                             dec. 14                                mar. 15                   jun. 15                 sep. 15   dec. 15

             dairy farming                   dairy processing                     food       beverages       pharma/chemical
             other industries                 gea total



     by region (%, average last 12 months)

     asia pacific............................................................. 24.8 (24.8)
     dach & eastern europe ........................................ 19.9 (19.6)
     western europe, middle east & africa.................... 16.4 (15.9)
     north- and central europe..................................... 14.8 (16.5)
     latin america......................................................... 6.0    (6.2)                                                  2015
     north america....................................................... 18.2 (16.9)                                                     2014




42                                                                                  gea annual report 2015

                                        combined group management report / report on economic position




business area equipment
in the 2015 fiscal year, the business area equipment increased its revenue by 0.7 percent to
eur 2,323.7 million (previous year: eur 2,307.6 million). however, on a constant exchange rate
basis, revenue declined by 4.2 percent. this was due in particular to the oil and gas industry within
the other industries and – to a lesser extent – to the dairy production customer industry and the
pharma/chemical end markets. in contrast, energy and the other industries, along with dairy
processing posted very positive adjusted growth rates.

the asia pacific, north and central europe, and north america regions posted below-average overall
performance, while western europe, the middle east & africa generated gratifying growth. the most
significant sales regions are north america, dach & eastern europe, and asia pacific which all
enjoyed a share of the revenue of over 20 percent.

the service business recorded growth of 8.7 percent (2.3 percent when adjusted) in the reporting
period, with its share of total revenue amounting to 37.9 percent (previous year: 35.1 percent).



business area equipment revenue eur 2,323.7 million (previous year: eur 2,307.6 million)
by applications (average last 12 months, 3 most important applications, only exernal business)



120 %




110 %




100 %




  90 %
                        dec. 14                                mar. 15                    jun. 15        sep. 15   dec. 15

        dairy farming                     food                 other industries          gea total




by region (%, average last 12 months)

asia pacific............................................................. 20.4 (21.6)
dach & eastern europe ........................................ 21.3 (22.2)
western europe, middle east & africa.................... 16.6 (15.4)
north- and central europe..................................... 13.3 (14.1)
latin america......................................................... 6.3    (6.7)                                          2015
north america....................................................... 22.0 (20.1)                                             2014




                                                                                gea annual report 2015                              43

                                             combined group management report / report on economic position




     business area solutions
     the business area solutions generated revenue of eur 2,475.2 million in the reporting year, up 2.9 percent
     on the previous year. adjusted for exchange rate and acquisition effects, revenue decreased by 3.9 percent.
     this development was mainly attributable to the food and beverages end market (chiefly the dairy
     production and food customer industries), as well as to the pharma industry. in contrast, the chemical and
     environment industries, along with the beverages customer industry both recorded highly positive, double-
     digit adjusted growth rates.

     at a regional level, adjusted revenue growth saw a particularly significant decline in north and
     central europe. the north america region also saw a weaker performance, while highly gratifying
     adjusted revenue growth was recorded in dach & eastern europe. the asia pacific region is the
     strongest in this business area, with an almost 30 percent share of the revenue.

     the service business recorded very positive adjusted growth of 5.6 percent. before exchange rate and
     acquisition effects, growth was even 12.4 percent. the business area’s share of total revenue increased
     from 18.7 percent to 20.4 percent.




     business area solutions revenue eur 2,475.2 million (previous year: eur 2.404,3 million)
     by applications (average last 12 months, 3 most important applications, only exernal business)



     120 %




     110 %




     100 %




       90 %
                             dec. 14                                mar. 15                       jun. 15    sep. 15   dec. 15

             dairy processing                    food                beverages               gea total




     by region (%, average last 12 months)

     asia pacific............................................................. 28.8 (27.7)
     dach & eastern europe ........................................ 18.8 (17.4)
     western europe, middle east & africa.................... 16.4 (16.6)
     north- and central europe..................................... 16.7 (19.8)
     latin america......................................................... 5.5    (5.4)                                         2015
     north america....................................................... 13.8 (13.2)                                            2014




44                                                                                  gea annual report 2015

                     combined group management report / report on economic position




results of operations, financial position and net assets

results of operations
gea remains committed to its policy of consciously selecting orders on the basis of their price quality
and contract terms. this is reflected in the multi-stage approval process for major customer projects.

whenever operative earnings are referred to in the following, this relates on the one hand to adjustments
for purchase price allocation effects that were determined for all material past acquisitions, and on the
other hand to the adjustment of expenses for restructuring and strategy projects. in addition, the figures
for operating ebitda have been adjusted for currency translation effects and acquisitions. the allocation in
accordance with ifrs of service and trademark fees was adjusted in fiscal year 2014.

operating ebit for 2015 was adjusted for non-recurring items in the amount of eur 197.4 million
(previous year: eur 50.7 million). eur 192.6 million of these items was attributable to strategy
projects of which eur 125.6 million was restructuring expenses (see page 218 f.).

the gross margin adjusted for non-recurring items for the whole of 2015 amounted to 32.3 percent, a
slight improvement on the previous year.

in fiscal year 2015, ebitda fell by eur 110.1 million compared with the prior-year period to
eur 429.8 million, largely due to high non-recurring costs. this corresponds to an ebitda margin of
9.3 percent (previous year: 12.0 percent). adjusted for the above-mentioned non-recurring items of
eur 190.0 million, operating ebitda amounted to eur 621.0 million. the eur 30.3 million increase
compared with the previous year (eur 590.7 million) was due in particular to the significant
improvement in earnings of food processing & packaging, gratifying business growth in the field of
compression and – last but not least – to the ongoing expansion in service business. in addition, the
“fit for 2020” program already bore fruit in terms of cost savings in the reporting year. as a result,
the operating ebitda margin improved by a further 40 basis points to 13.5 percent of revenue.
operating ebitda in 2015 of eur 621.0 million included positive currency translation and
acquisition effects of eur 26.6 million and eur 8.7 million respectively. thus, the ebitda figure
comparable with the announced forecast in the annual report amounts to eur 585.7 million.

both operating ebitda and the operating ebitda margin represent all-time highs for the new gea.




                                          gea annual report 2015                                               45

                                            combined group management report / report on economic position




     operating ebitda margin and revenue
                                                                                                                                           13.5%
     development for the last 5 years                                                                                          13.1%
     (eur million)
                                                                                                 12.3%               12.3%
                                                                                                           11.9%
                                                                                                                               4,515.7   4,599.3
                                                                                                                     4,320.0
                                                                                                           4,142.3
                                                                                                 3,828.3




           revenue
           operating ebitda margin
                                                                                                  2011      2012      2013      2014       2015




     business area equipment
     in fiscal year 2015, the business area equipment succeeded once again in surpassing the prior-year
     figure for operating ebitda (eur 351.1 million) by 8.7 percent to eur 381.8 million. as a result, the
     operating ebitda margin also improved by more than 120 basis points to 16.4 percent of revenue.
     thus, the business area equipment posted record highs in terms of both operating ebitda and
     operating ebitda margin. the chief reason for this positive earnings showing was the significant
     improvement in earnings in food processing & packaging, in addition to the expansion in service
     business and gratifying business growth in the field of compression. the operating ebitda already
     included positive currency translation and acquisition effects of eur 13.6 million and eur 0.6
     million respectively.

     business area solutions
     the business area solutions posted a slight fall in operating ebitda in the reporting year from
     eur 265.8 million to eur 255.3 million due to cost increases and delays affecting certain projects,
     and as a result of contracting oil and gas business in the field of cooling solutions. accordingly, the
     operating ebitda margin fell from 11.1 percent to 10.3 percent. the figure for operating ebitda
     already included positive currency translation and acquisition effects of eur 13.2 million and
     eur 8.1 million respectively.

     the following table shows operating ebitda and the corresponding operating ebitda margin per
     business area:

     operating ebitda/operating ebitda margin *                                                                                                            change
     (eur million)                                                                                                                  2015           2014      in %
     ba equipment                                                                                                                  381.8           351.1      8.7
      as % of revenue                                                                                                               16.4            15.2        –
     ba solutions                                                                                                                  255.3           265.8     –4.0
      as % of revenue                                                                                                               10.3            11.1        –
     total                                                                                                                         637.1           617.0      3.3
      as % of revenue                                                                                                               13.3            13.1        –
     consolidation/others                                                                                                          –16.2           –26.3     38.4
     gea                                                                                                                           621.0           590.7      5.1
      as % of revenue                                                                                                               13.5            13.1        –

     *) before effects of purchase price allocations and before non-recurring items (see page 218 f.)




46                                                                                gea annual report 2015

                                       combined group management report / report on economic position




the following table shows the reconciliation of ebitda before purchase price allocation and non-
recurring items (operating ebitda) through ebitda and ebit to ebit before purchase price
allocation and non-recurring items (operating ebit):

reconciliation of operating ebitda to operating ebit                                                                                                      change
(eur million)                                                                                                                            2015     2014      in %
operating ebitda *                                                                                                                      621.0    590.7       5.1
realization of step-up amounts on inventories                                                                                             –1.2       –         –
non-recurring items                                                                                                                     –190.0    –50.7   < –100
ebitda                                                                                                                                  429.8    539.9     –20.4
depreciation of impairment losses on property, plant, and equipment, and investment property,
and amortization of and impairment losses on intangible assets and goodwill, as reported in the
statement of changes in non-current assets                                                                                              –119.4   –100.1    –19.3
other impairment losses and reversals of impairment losses                                                                                –1.0       –         –
ebit                                                                                                                                    309.4    439.9     –29.6
depreciation and amortization on capitalization of purchase price allocation                                                              26.9     23.1     16.8
impairment losses on capitalization of purchase price allocation                                                                           3.9     –0.1        –
realization of step-up amounts on inventories                                                                                              1.2       –         –
non-recurring items                                                                                                                     197.4      50.7    > 100
operating ebit *                                                                                                                        538.8    513.5       4.9

*) before effects of purchase price allocations from revalued assets and liabilities and before non-recurring items (see page 218 f.)




the following table shows operating ebit and the corresponding operating ebit margin per
business area:

operating ebit/operating ebit margin *                                                                                                                    change
(eur million)                                                                                                                            2015     2014      in %
ba equipment                                                                                                                            326.8    298.3       9.6
 as % of revenue                                                                                                                          14.1     12.9        –
ba solutions                                                                                                                            234.8    247.8      –5.2
 as % of revenue                                                                                                                           9.5     10.3        –
total                                                                                                                                   561.7    546.1       2.8
 as % of revenue                                                                                                                          11.7     11.6        –
consolidation/others                                                                                                                     –22.8    –32.6     30.0
gea                                                                                                                                     538.8    513.5       4.9
 as % of revenue                                                                                                                          11.7     11.4        –

*) before effects of purchase price allocations and before non-recurring item (see page 218 f.)




as a result of the high non-recurring expenses, ebit amounted to eur 309.4 million in the past fiscal year,
compared with eur 439.9 million in the previous year. the ebit margin thus fell from 9.7 percent to
6.7 percent. operating ebit, adjusted for purchase price allocation effects of eur 32.0 million (previous
year: eur 22.9 million) and for non-recurring items, rose to eur 538.8 million (previous year:
eur 513.5 million). the operating ebit margin improved from 11.4 percent to 11.7 percent of revenue.




                                                                              gea annual report 2015                                                               47

                                            combined group management report / report on economic position




     key figures: results of operations                                                                                        change
     (eur million)                                                                                           2015      2014      in %
     revenue                                                                                               4,599.3   4,515.7      1.9
     operating ebitda *                                                                                     621.0     590.7       5.1
     ebitda                                                                                                 429.8     539.9     –20.4
     operating ebit *                                                                                       538.8     513.5       4.9
     ebit                                                                                                   309.4     439.9     –29.6
     interest                                                                                                39.4      66.0     –40.3
     ebt                                                                                                    270.0     373.8     –27.8
     income taxes                                                                                              5.8     87.8     –93.4
     profit after tax from continuing operations                                                            264.2     286.0      –7.6
     profit after tax from discontinued operations                                                           97.6      34.6     > 100
     profit for the period                                                                                  361.9     320.6      12.9

     *) before effects of purchase price allocations and before non-recurring items (see page 218 f.)




     net interest income for the whole year amounted to eur –39.4 million, well below the prior-year
     figure of eur –66.0 million. the eur 26.6 million improvement is attributable on the one hand to
     lower interest expenses from interest accrued on pension provisions, and, on the other, to lower bank
     interest payments due to the repayment of financial liabilities using proceeds from the sale of the
     former gea heat exchangers segment.

     ebt in full-year 2015 amounted to eur 270.0 million, eur 103.8 million lower than the previous
     year’s figure (eur 373.8 million) and largely due to high non-recurring costs. the ebt margin fell
     accordingly from 8.3 percent in the previous year to 5.9 percent.

     profit from discontinued operations amounted to eur 97.6 million in fiscal year 2015 (previous
     year: eur 34.6 million). this result includes the settlement of legal disputes in connection with the
     former business activities of mg technologies ag. in the previous year, profit from discontinued operations
     was almost exclusively attributable to the former gea heat exchangers segment (see page 160).

     the income tax expense of eur 5.8 million in fiscal year 2015 (previous year: eur 87.8 million)
     comprised current tax expenses of eur 61.4 million (previous year: eur 80.7 million) and income
     from deferred taxes of eur 55.7 million (previous year: eur 7.1 million deferred tax expense). as a
     result, notably, of special factors relating to discontinued operations and expected higher tax income
     in the future, tax rate amounted to just 2.1 percent in the reporting year (previous year: 23.5 percent).

     in the fiscal year, the group result amounted to eur 361.9 million (previous year: eur 320.6 million),
     almost all of which was attributable to gea group aktiengesellschaft shareholders (previous
     year: eur 320.5 million). taking into account the unchanged average number of shares compared
     with the previous year (192,495,476,) this corresponds to earnings per share of eur 1.88 (previous
     year: eur 1.66.)

     in addition to holding company costs in the narrower sense, the results of operations of gea group
     aktiengesellschaft are primarily driven by net investment income and net interest income. further
     details are presented in the section entitled “net assets, financial position, and results of operations of
     gea group aktiengesellschaft” (see page 56 ff.).

     the executive board and supervisory board are proposing to increase the dividend from eur 0.70 to
     eur 0.80 per share. this is in line with the goal to distribute between 40 and 50 percent of consolidated
     profit to our shareholders, as announced at our capital markets day on october 13, 2014.




48                                                                                gea annual report 2015

                                 combined group management report / report on economic position




financial position
gea’s financial position is still very good, largely due to the cash inflows of the previous year resulting
from the sale of the gea heat exchangers segment. however, liquidity management and centralized
financial management remain of key significance due, among other factors, to the volatile markets.

in the first quarter of 2015, the european investment bank (eib) loan was early repaid in the amount of
eur 100.0 million. with the aim of securing advantageous conditions for the company, the syndicated
credit line (club deal) was extended to 2020 in august 2015. this loan features two further 12-month
prolongation options until max. 2022.

gea’s cash credit lines and their utilization were as follows at the reporting date:

gea cash credit lines incl. discontinued operations                                          12/31/2015   12/31/2015
(eur million)                                                                    maturity      approved       utilized
gea bond                                                                       april 2016          275           275
european investment bank                                                        july 2017           50             50
borrower‘s note loan                                                     september 2017             90             90
syndicated credit line (“club deal”)                                         august 2020           650              –
                                                                    maximum of 1 year or
various (bilateral) credit lines including accrued interests        “until further notice“         135             14
total                                                                                            1,199           429



the group’s financial management encompasses liquidity management, group financing, and the
management of interest rate and currency translation risks. as the group management company, gea
group aktiengesellschaft is responsible for gea’s central financial management, which aims to reduce
financing costs as far as possible, to optimize interest rates for financial investments, to minimize
counterparty credit risk, to leverage economies of scale, to hedge interest rate and exchange rate risk
exposures as effectively as possible, and to ensure that loan covenants are complied with. the goal of
gea’s financing strategy is not only to be able to meet its payment obligations whenever they fall
due, but also to ensure that sufficient cash reserves are always available in the form of credit lines, in
addition to maintaining a strategic cash position. the centralized liquidity portfolio is managed
mainly for capital preservation and risk reduction by diversifying the cash investments.

cash flow from operating activities is the most important source of liquidity. intragroup cash pooling
aims to limit external cash investments and borrowings to as low a level as possible. to achieve this,
gea has established cash pooling groups in 13 countries that automatically balance the accounts of
the participating group companies every day by crediting or debiting a target account at gea group
aktiengesellschaft. any additional liquidity requirements are generally borrowed by group
management, which also invests surplus liquidity. in a number of cases, however, liquidity peaks in
individual countries cannot be reduced on a cross-border basis due to legal or tax-related reasons.

the company further increased its net liquidity (including discontinued operations) by eur 78.3 million
to eur 982.0 million as of december 31, 2015.




                                                               gea annual report 2015                                    49

                                     combined group management report / report on economic position




     overview of net liquidity incl. discontinued operations
     (eur million)                                                                                              12/31/2015         12/31/2014
     cash and cash equivalents                                                                                     1,174.2            1,195.9
     fixed deposits with a remaining period ≤ 1 year                                                                200.0              200.0
     securities                                                                                                       37.0               37.0
     liabilities to banks                                                                                           146.5              246.9
     bonds                                                                                                          282.7              282.2
     net liquidity (+)/net debt (-)                                                                                 982.0              903.7
     gearing (%)                                                                                                    –34.5              –35.8



     cash and cash equivalents fell slightly to eur 1,174.2 million as of december 31, 2015, compared with
     eur 1,195.9 million as of the end of the previous year. liabilities to banks (eur 55.9 million), from
     the bond issue (eur 282.7 million, including accrued interest), and the borrower’s note loan
     (eur 90.6 million, including accrued interest) amounted to a total of eur 429.1 million at the
     reporting date (previous year: eur 529.1 million).

     detailed information on the maturity, currency, and interest rate structure of debt financing can be
     found in the notes to the consolidated financial statements (see pages 152 ff. and 194 ff.).

     guarantee lines – which are mainly for contract performance, advance payments, and warranties – of
     eur 1,463.4 million (december 31, 2014: eur 1,732.3 million) were available to gea as of the reporting
     date, of which eur 481.4 million (december 31, 2014: eur 462.1 million) had been utilized.

     in addition to the assets recognized in the consolidated balance sheet, gea also uses non owned
     assets. these are mainly assets leased or rented under operating leases. gea uses factoring programs
     as off-balance-sheet financing instruments. the obligations resulting from rental and leasing obligations
     are explained in section 9.2 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements (see page 214).


     change in working capital (continued operations)
     (eur million)


          trade receivables                                    q4 2015      1,118        549   -   610     510       =       547
          inventories                                          q3 2015      987         645    -   511    490        =        632
          trade payables
                                                               q4 2014        946        562   -    640    444       =       424
          advance payments received
          working capital




     working capital from continuing operations amounted to eur 546.8 million as of december 31, 2015,
     up 28.8 percent as against the previous year (eur 424.4 million). this increase is primarily due to
     higher trade receivables. this contrasted with developments in inventories and, notably, in advance
     payments. the ratio of average working capital to revenue increased from 12.1 percent to 13.1 percent.




50                                                                  gea annual report 2015

                                      combined group management report / report on economic position




the key factors responsible for the change in net liquidity are shown in the following chart:



change in net liquidity
(eur million)




             903.7                                                                                net liquidity (12/31/2014) *
                                                                                         429.8                                    ebitda
                                                                                                               –113.1             change in working capital
                                                                                                          –90.7          capex
                                                                                                  –101.3          interest /taxes
                                                                                                    35.6     others
                                                                                                      52.0       exchange rate effects
           1,116.0                                                                                               subtotal
                                                                                                         120.4             discontinued operations
                                                                                                        –119.7            net effects from acquisitions
                                                                                            –134.7               dividend
             982.0                                                                                      net liquidity (12/31/2015) *



*) including fixed deposits with a remaining period ≤ 1 year (eur 200 million)




gea group aktiengesellschaft’s dividend payout in fiscal year 2015 was once again the highest in the
company’s history, at eur 134.7 million (previous year: eur 115.5 million). with the number of
shares unchanged, the more than 16 percent rise derives from the increase in the dividend per share
from eur 0.60 to eur 0.70.



dividend payments 1 for the last 5 years
and dividend proposal                                                                                                                 0.80
(eur million)
                                                                                                                           0.70
                                                                                                                                     154.0
                                                                                                                 0.60
                                                                                           0.55       0.55
                                                                                                                          134.7

                                                                                  0.40                           115.5
                                                                                                     105.9
                                                                                          101.1


                                                                                  73.3




      dividend proposal
      dividend
      dividend per share, eur
                                                                                  2011    2012        2013       2014      2015     2016 2
1) dividend payments respectively for the preceding fiscal year
2) on basis of dividend proposal




                                                                             gea annual report 2015                                                           51

                                     combined group management report / report on economic position




     the consolidated cash flow statement can be summarized as follows:

     overview of cash flow statement                                                                           change
     (eur million)                                                                        2015         2014    absolute
     cash flow from operating activities                                                 324.7        401.6      –76.9
     cash flow from investing activities                                                 –196.1       –349.4     153.3
     free cash flow                                                                      128.6          52.2      76.4
     cash flow from financing activities                                                 –270.3       –618.9     348.6
     cash flow from disposal of gea heat exchangers                                          –        980.1     –980.1
     net cash flow from disposal of gea heat exchangers                                    –3.8        –10.9       7.1
     net cash flow other discontinued operations                                         124.2         –13.1     137.4
     change in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents                                     –21.7       400.1     –421.8



     cash flow from operating activities attributable to continuing operations amounted to eur 324.7 million
     in the year under review, down eur 76.9 million on the previous year (eur 401.6 million). the
     decrease in ebitda (eur –110.1 million) due to higher non-recurring expenses, and higher liquidity
     outflows due to the rise in working capital (eur –54.1 million) could not be fully compensated by
     changes in other operating assets and liabilities (plus eur 68.9 million) and by a further rise in
     provisions (plus eur 26.9 million).

     cash flow from investing activities attributable to continuing operations amounted to eur –196.1 million
     in the reporting period (previous year: eur –349.4 million). these figures include outflows for
     acquisitions in the reporting year of eur 119.7 million. in the previous year, this indicator was largely
     attributable to cash investments and the purchase of securities in the total amount of eur 237.0 million
     in the reporting period.

     cash flow from financing activities attributable to continued operations (eur –270.3 million) reflects the
     dividend payout (eur 134.7 million) and, in particular, the eur 100.0 million early repayment of the loan
     from the european investment bank (eib) in the first quarter of the year. in the previous year, this was
     countered by the repayment of loans from kreditanstalt für wiederaufbau, the repayment of a
     borrower’s note loan, and the partial repurchase of bonds, amounting to eur 406.8 million in total.

     cash flow from discontinued operations amounted to eur 120.4 million in the reporting year. this
     figure includes inflows from the settlement of legal disputes in connection with the former business
     activities of mg technologies ag. in the previous year, this indicator was characterized by inflows
     from the sale of the gea heat exchangers segment of eur 1,059.3 million less divested cash and cash
     equivalents (eur 79.2 million).

     cash flow drivers
     gea’s overriding goal is to sustainably increase its enterprise value by growing profitably. the cash
     flow driver margin is a key group performance indicator that is used to create the necessary financial
     scope for this and to focus the group even more closely on cash flow generation. it is also
     incorporated into the bonus system.

     the cash flow driver margin is a simplified cash flow indicator (ebitda minus capital expenditures
     for property, plant, and equipment, and intangible assets (capex) and the change in average working
     capital) and is expressed as a ratio to revenue.




52                                                        gea annual report 2015

                                 combined group management report / report on economic position




operating cash flow driver/operating cash flow driver margin                                                               change
(eur million)                                                                                  12/31/2015   12/31/2014       in %
operating ebitda (last 12 months)                                                                  621.0         590.7        5.1
capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment (last 12 months)                               –90.7        –93.8       –3.3
change in working capital (average of the last 12 months)                                           –54.5        –40.8       33.3
operating cash flow driver
(operating ebitda - capex -/+change in working capital)                                            475.8         456.0        4.3
 as % of revenue (last 12 months)                                                                   10.3          10.1          –



the cash flow driver adjusted for non-recurring items amounted to eur 475.8 million in the year
under review, compared with eur 456.0 million in the previous year. the corresponding operating
cash flow driver margin was 10.3 percent, after 10.1 percent in the previous year. the main reason for
the improvement in this indicator was the eur 30.3 million increase in operating ebitda compared
with the previous year, this contrasting with the increased burden from the rise in working capital.

net assets

condensed balance sheet                                                            as % of                     as % of     change
(eur million)                                                     12/31/2015    total assets   12/31/2014   total assets     in %

assets
non-current assets                                                   2,873.9          46.9        2,714.8         46.5        5.9
 thereof goodwill                                                    1,431.5          23.4        1,330.0         22.8        7.6
 thereof deferred taxes                                                 491.1           8.0        469.3            8.0       4.6
current assets                                                       3,247.3          53.1        3,117.2         53.5        4.2
 thereof cash and cash equivalents                                   1,174.2          19.2        1,195.9         20.5       –1.8
 thereof assets held for sale                                             8.1           0.1           5.6           0.1      45.4
total assets                                                         6,121.2         100.0        5,832.0        100.0        5.0

equity and liabilities
equity                                                               2,844.2          46.5        2,527.2         43.3       12.5
non-current liabilities                                              1,272.6          20.8        1,558.4         26.7      –18.3
 thereof financial liabilities                                          177.0           2.9        456.1            7.8     –61.2
 thereof deferred taxes                                                 111.2           1.8        118.6            2.0      –6.3
current liabilities                                                  2,004.4          32.7        1,746.4         29.9       14.8
 thereof financial liabilities                                          300.7           4.9        133.5            2.3     > 100
total equity and liabilities                                         6,121.2         100.0        5,832.0        100.0        5.0



total assets as of december 31, 2015, increased by eur 289.2 million or 5.0 percent as against
december 31, 2014, to eur 6,121.2 million. this increase is primarily due to higher trade receivables and
to a rise in intangible assets caused by acquisitions. deferred tax assets also increased, whereas cash and
cash equivalents fell slightly. the ratio of non-current to current assets shifted in favor of non-current
assets, which accounted for 46.9 percent of total assets as of december 31, 2015 (previous
year: 46.5 percent).

equity increased significantly, up eur 317.0 million to eur 2,844.2 million. the improvement in this
balance sheet item was due to the consolidated profit of eur 361.9 million, as well as to currency
translation effects (eur 87.2 million). this was offset by the dividend payment of eur 134.7 million. the
equity ratio improved significantly by 3.2 percentage points compared with that of december 31, 2014, to
46.5 percent.

non-current liabilities were significantly reduced to eur 1,272.6 million, in particular as a result of
the reclassification of the bond in the amount of eur 274.2 million for maturity reasons. by contrast,
at eur 2,004.4 million as of the reporting date, current liabilities were up eur 258.0 million on the




                                                               gea annual report 2015                                               53

                                           combined group management report / report on economic position




     figure for december 31, 2014 (eur 1,746.4 million). on the one hand, this balance sheet item reflects
     the above-mentioned reclassification of the bond for maturity reasons, and restructuring provisions
     posted in the second quarter of 2015 in particular; on the other, it reflects the early repayment of the
     eur 100.0 million loan from the european investment bank (eib).


     comparison of net assets (2015 vs. 2014) *
     (eur million)
                                                                                                                        equity and
     assets                           6,121                     5,832                                                   liabilities               6,121          5,832




     non-current assets                      2,874                      2,715                                           equity                         2,844          2,527




                                                                                                                        non-current
                                                                                                                                                       1,273          1,558
                                                                                                                        liabilities



     current assets                          3,247                      3,117
                                                                                                                        current liabilities            2,004          1,746


     thereof assets                                                                                                     thereof debts
                                             8                          6
     held for sale                                                                                                      held for sale                  301             134
                                  12/31/2015                12/31/2014                                                                          12/31/2015     12/31/2014

     *) amounts adjusted due to first time classification of a business area as discontinued operation (see page 149 f.) and due to change in
        accounting policy for employee benefits (see page 181 f.)




     performance of discontinued operations

     other companies
     once again, other companies classified as discontinued operations did not have a material impact
     overall on consolidated profit in fiscal year 2015.

     in the context of the former mining activities of mg technologies ag, we had to increase our provisions
     for proactive risk prevention measures at shaft entrances in response to recalibration during ongoing
     risk analysis and as a result of changes in the discount rate used to measure non-current provisions. in
     contrast, the risks relating to the sale of lentjes decreased further, meaning that some of the provisions
     recognized for this could be reversed.

     employees
     the executive board of gea group aktiengesellschaft would like to thank all of the group’s employees
     for their excellent work and active commitment in fiscal 2015. our particular thanks go to the employee
     representatives in germany and abroad for their responsible and constructive contributions.




54                                                                               gea annual report 2015

                                      combined group management report / report on economic position




there were 17,533 employees as of december 31, 2015. this represents a total decrease of 710 employees
compared with december 31, 2014 (18,243 employees). changes in the basis of consolidation
increased the number of employees by 495. adjusted for these effects, total job-cuts amounted to
1,205 full-time equivalents, 830 of which are attributable to the “fit for 2020” program.

the reduction in the workforce affected all regions, with asia pacific, dach & eastern europe, and
north america bearing the brunt of the cuts. that said, the regional spread of employees changed
only marginally.


employees * by region                                                                             12/31/2015             12/31/2014
dach & eastern europe                                                                             6,667         38.0%    6,773         37.1%
north and central europe                                                                          3,118         17.8%    3,216         17.6%
asia pacific                                                                                      2,901         16.5%    3,188         17.5%
western europe, middle east & africa                                                              2,664         15.2%    2,589         14.2%
north america                                                                                     1,829         10.4%    2,090         11.5%
latin america                                                                                      355          2.0%      387          2.1%
total                                                                                            17,533        100.0%   18,243        100.0%

*) full-time equivalents (fte) excluding vocational trainees and inactive employment contracts




talent management and development
gea runs talent development programs for target groups at different levels of seniority. the two
programs – “first professional program” and “professionals on stage” – are designed to identify and
foster the development of employees with management potential. together with five other prominent
international companies, gea also participates in the london business school’s global business
consortium in which top managers can hone their strategic business skills.

gea sets its store by excellence in the training of young talent. among other things, it offers an
international trainee program for university graduates. absolventa gmbh has recognized this program
as a fair, career-enhancing initiative. trainees are prepared at a group-wide level for advanced duties in
both commercial and technical areas over a period of 18 months in gea companies in germany and
abroad. twin-track courses of study in cooperation with universities and technical colleges are available
for school-leavers. lasting six semesters, these courses lead to bachelor degrees in various specialist
areas. gea also offers classical vocational training in the engineering disciplines.

it is gea’s aim to find replacements for at least 80 percent of senior management vacancies below
executive board level from within the company in the event of position changes or fluctuation. to
this end, the company has implemented a systematic process for identifying and training suitable
candidates. this would also enable vacant positions to be filled on an ad-hoc basis if necessary.

learning and training
since the end of 2015, the gea learning center portal – a centralized learning and training platform
– has been available to employees around the world. the current offering includes e-learning
programs on both specialized and business topics, as well as management training courses. product
and application-based training courses will be provided by gea’s two business areas.

performance assessments are carried out at regular intervals for managers worldwide. the results are
used as a basis for discussing individual development measures for the managers.




                                                                             gea annual report 2015                                            55

                                      combined group management report / report on economic position




     net assets, financial position, and results of operations
     of gea group aktiengesellschaft
     in addition to the reporting by the group, the following section describes the performance of gea
     group aktiengesellschaft (group management). the annual financial statements are prepared in
     accordance with the handelsgesetzbuch (hgb – german commercial code) and the aktiengesetz
     (aktg – german stock corporation act). they are presented here in condensed form.



     net assets of gea group ag (hgb)                                                                  as %                           as %
     (eur million)                                                             12/31/2015    of total assets   12/31/2014   of total assets

     assets
     intangible fixed assets                                                           3.8              0.1           4.0              0.1
     tangible fixed assets                                                             1.6                –           2.0                –
     long-term financial assets                                                    2,600.5            55.8        2,842.7            59.6
     fixed assets                                                                  2,605.9            55.9        2,848.7            59.7
     receivables and other assets                                                   910.4             19.6         714.7             15.0
      thereof receivables from affiliated companies                                 882.6             19.0         677.9             14.2
      thereof other assets                                                            27.8              0.6          36.8              0.8
     securities                                                                       37.0              0.8          37.0              0.8
     cash                                                                          1,100.5            23.6        1,167.3            24.4
     current assets                                                                2,047.9            44.0        1,919.0            40.2
     prepaid expenses                                                                  3.1              0.1           3.2              0.1
     total                                                                         4,656.9           100.0        4,770.9           100.0

     equity and liabilities
     subscribed capital                                                             520.4             11.2         520.4             10.9
     capital reserves                                                               250.8               5.4        250.8               5.3
     revenue reserves                                                               731.7             15.7         741.7             15.5
     net retained profits                                                           154.4               3.3        136.5               2.9
     equity                                                                        1,657.3            35.6        1,649.4            34.6
     provisions                                                                     295.9               6.4        288.0               6.0
     bonds                                                                          274.7               5.9        274.7               5.8
     liabilities to banks                                                           140.0               3.0        240.0               5.0
     liabilities to affiliated companies                                           2,272.3            48.8        2,301.2            48.2
     other liabilities                                                               16.0               0.3         15.0               0.3
     liabilities                                                                   2,703.0            58.0        2,830.9            59.3
     deferred income                                                                   0.7                –           2.6              0.1
     total                                                                         4,656.9           100.0        4,770.9           100.0



     the contraction in total assets of eur 114.0 million compared with the previous year is chiefly the
     result of a reduction in long-term loans to affiliated companies in the amount of eur 242.2 million
     and a eur 66.8 million fall in cash funds largely as a result of the loan repayment. by contrast,
     receivables from affiliated companies raise by eur 204.7 million to eur 882.6 million as a result of
     group financing.

     net income for the fiscal year of eur 142.6 million less the dividend of eur 134.7 million paid out in
     fiscal year 2015 led to the eur 7.9 million increase in equity to eur 1,657.3 million. the equity ratio
     increased by 1.0 percentage points to 35.6 percent. early repayment of the eur 100.0 million loan
     from the european investment bank (eib) is reflected in liabilities to banks.

     there were only minor changes overall to the rest of the balance sheet items compared with the
     previous year.




56                                                        gea annual report 2015

                              combined group management report / report on economic position




income statement of gea group ag (hgb)
(eur million)                                                                     12/31/2015    in %    12/31/2014    in %
other operating income                                                                 435.1    274.0       140.6      91.4
personnel expenses                                                                     –38.7    –24.4        –32.6    –21.2
amortization amd writedowns of intangible fixed assets and
depreciation and writedowns of tangible fixed assets                                    –0.8     –0.5         –1.0     –0.7
other operating expenses                                                              –308.8   –194.5      –231.5    –150.5
investment income                                                                       66.2     41.7       278.0    180.8
net interest income                                                                      5.8      3.7          0.3      0.2
result from ordinary activities                                                       158.8    100.0        153.8    100.0
taxes on income                                                                        –16.2    –10.2       –13.1      –8.5
net income for the fiscal year                                                        142.6      89.8       140.7      91.5
retained profits brought forward                                                         1.8      1.1          0.8      0.5
withdrawals from other revenue reserves                                                 10.0      6.3           –        –
appropriation to other revenue reserves                                                   –        –          –5.0     –3.3
net retained profits                                                                  154.4      97.2       136.5      88.8



currency translation gains and losses from own hedges and hedges for affiliated companies are reported
gross within other operating income and expenses, as in the previous year. gains of eur 229.8 million
(previous year: eur 100.1 million) and losses of eur 223.7 million (previous year: eur 99.4 million)
resulted in net exchange rate gains of eur 6.1 million (previous year: eur 0.7 million).

in addition to currency translation gains, other operating income includes income from the settlement of
legal disputes in connection with the former business activities of mg technologies ag, income from
recharging the intercompany service fee and the trademark fee to subsidiaries, from ancillary operations,
and from the reversal of provisions. in addition to currency translation losses, other operating expenses
mainly comprise the outlays for expert opinions and consulting, as well as third-party services. the
outlay for expert opinions and consulting of eur 40.7 million (previous year: eur 38.7 million) is
mainly attributable to consulting fees in the context of the restructuring program.

investment income comprises income and expenses from profit and loss transfer agreements.
income from profit transfer agreements mainly contains the profits transferred by gea mechanical
equipment gmbh, gea refrigeration germany gmbh, and gea tds gmbh. expenses for loss
absorption mainly comprise assumed losses from gea farm technologies gmbh, gea diessel
gmbh, gea it services gmbh, ziag plant engineering gmbh, and mg altersversorgung gmbh. the
income from profit transfers and the outlay for loss absorption were characterized by non-recurring
expenses for restructuring measures.

net interest income increased by eur 5.5 million to eur 5.8 million (previous year: eur 0.3 million).
this was mainly the result of lower interest expenses due to the repayment of liabilities to banks and
the partial repurchase of a bond in december 2014 in the amount of eur 125.3 million.




                                                             gea annual report 2015                                           57

                                     combined group management report / report on economic position




     cash-flow of gea group ag (hgb)
     (eur million)                                                                                      2015      2014
     cash flow from operating activities                                                               168.0    1,022.2
     cash flow from investing activities                                                                 –0.1    165.9
     cash flow from financing activities                                                              –234.7    –552.7
     liquid funds                                                                                     1,100.5   1,167.3



     gea group aktiengesellschaft’s business development is primarily subject to the same risks and
     opportunities as the gea group. these are presented in the report on risks and opportunities.
     additionally, the relationships with subsidiaries may result in negative effects due to statutory and
     contractual contingent liabilities (in particular finance).

     the most important key performance indicator for gea group aktiengesellschaft is (hgb) net
     income for the fiscal year, which, together with the available provisions, allows it to pay out a
     dividend of between 40 and 50 percent of the (ifrs) consolidated profit. the company is expecting
     net income for fiscal year 2016 to increase slightly compared with 2015 thanks to savings from the
     restructuring program.

     due to its overlap with the group as a whole, further details on the future business development of
     gea group aktiengesellschaft can be found in the chapter entitled “business outlook” (see page 100 f.).

     proposal on the appropriation of profits
     gea group aktiengesellschaft’s annual financial statements in accordance with the hgb report net
     income for the fiscal year of eur 142.6 million. in fiscal year 2015, an amount of eur 10.0 million
     was withdrawn from the other revenue reserves. the executive board and supervisory board will
     propose to the annual general meeting to pay a dividend of eur 0.80 per share, up from eur 0.70 in
     the prior-year period, to shareholders from the net retained profits of eur 154.4 million for a total of
     192,495,476 shares (previous year: 192,495,476 shares), and to carry forward the remaining net
     retained profits of eur 0.5 million to new account.

     the dividend will be paid from the contribution account for tax purposes (section 27 of the körper­
     schaftsteuergesetz (kstg – german corporate income tax act)) and therefore without deduction of
     investment income tax and the solidarity surcharge. in the case of shareholders in germany, the
     dividend is not subject to current taxation in the year of payment. the general opinion of the german
     tax authorities (see also the federal ministry of finance (bmf) circular dated december 22, 2009,
     paragraph 92) is that the payment of dividends from the contribution account for tax purposes
     constitutes a repayment of shareholder contributions, which results in a retrospective reduction in
     the cost of the shares. this can lead to the imposition of higher capital gains taxes if the shares are
     sold at a later date.

     explanatory information in accordance with sections 289(4) and (5),
     and 315(2) no. 5 and 315(4) of the hgb

     composition of the subscribed capital and restrictions on rights
     as of december 31, 2015, the subscribed capital of gea group aktiengesellschaft was eur 520,375,765.57
     and was composed of 192,495,476 no-par value bearer shares. all the shares are ordinary shares. the rights
     and obligations arising from these shares are defined in the aktg. the executive board is not aware of any
     restrictions affecting the voting rights. participation in the gea performance share plan requires a personal
     investment by participants in gea shares, which are subject to a holding period of three years. participants
     who infringe the holding period lose their right to participate in the plan.




58                                                       gea annual report 2015

                     combined group management report / report on economic position




interests in the share capital exceeding 10 percent of the voting rights
there were no interests in the company exceeding 10 percent of the voting rights as of december 31, 2015.

provisions governing the appointment and dismissal of members of the executive board and
amendments to the articles of association
the members of the executive board are appointed and dismissed in accordance with sections 84 and
85 of the aktg in conjunction with section 31 of the mitbestimmungsgesetz (mitbestg – german
codetermination act).

under article 20(1) of gea group aktiengesellschaft’s articles of association, amendments to the
articles of association may – where legally permissible – be adopted by a simple majority of the
share capital represented at the vote. under article 21 of the articles of association, the supervisory
board may resolve amendments and additions to the articles of association that only affect their
wording. in other respects, section 179 of the aktg applies to amendments to the articles of
association.

powers of the executive board to issue and repurchase shares
in accordance with article 4(3) of the articles of association, the executive board is authorized, with
the approval of the supervisory board, to increase the share capital by up to eur 77 million by
issuing new no-par value shares against cash contributions on one or more occasions until april 23,
2017 (authorized capital i) and, in accordance with article 5(4) of the articles of association, to
define a starting date for profit rights in this case that differs from the date stipulated by law. the
executive board is also entitled, with the approval of the supervisory board, to exclude fractions
from shareholders’ preemptive rights. the new shares may also be underwritten by banks with the
obligation of offering them to the shareholders for subscription (indirect subscription right).

in accordance with article 4(4) of the articles of association, the executive board is authorized, with
the approval of the supervisory board, to increase the share capital, wholly or in part, by up to
eur 130 million by issuing new no-par value shares against cash and/or non-cash contributions on
one or more occasions until april 15, 2020 (authorized capital ii) and, in accordance with article 5(4)
of the articles of association, to define a starting date for profit rights in this case that differs from
the date stipulated by law. the statutory subscription right may also be granted by the new shares
being underwritten by one or more banks with the obligation of offering them to the shareholders for
subscription (indirect subscription right). furthermore, the executive board is authorized, with the
approval of the supervisory board, to disapply shareholders’ preemptive rights in the case of capital
increases against noncash contributions for the purpose of business combinations or the acquisition
of companies, parts of companies, or equity interests in companies or other assets. the executive
board is further authorized, with the approval of the supervisory board, to disapply shareholders’
preemptive rights (i) in order to implement a so-called scrip dividend where the shareholders of gea
group aktiengesellschaft are given the option of contributing their dividend entitlement either
wholly or partially to the company as a noncash contribution in return for the granting of new
shares, (ii) insofar as it is necessary to eliminate fractional amounts, and (iii) in order to grant the
creditors of convertible or option bonds with option or conversion privileges or obligations issued by
gea group aktiengesellschaft or a subordinate group company of the company a right to subscribe
to new shares to the extent to which they would be entitled after exercising the option or conversion
rights or after fulfilling conversion obligations. the total proportionate amount of gea group




                                          gea annual report 2015                                             59

                          combined group management report / report on economic position




     aktiengesellschaft’s share capital allocable to shares issued against cash and/or noncash contributions
     under disapplication of shareholders’ preemptive rights must not exceed 10 percent of the company’s
     share capital at the time when the resolution was adopted by the annual general meeting. finally, the
     executive board is authorized, with the approval of the supervisory board, to stipulate the further details
     of the capital increases from authorized capital ii and the terms and conditions of the share issue.

     in accordance with article 4(5) of the articles of association, the executive board is authorized, with
     the approval of the supervisory board, to increase the share capital by up to eur 52 million by
     issuing new no-par value shares against cash contributions on one or more occasions until april 15,
     2020 (authorized capital iii) and, in accordance with article 5(4) of the articles of association, to
     define a starting date for profit rights in this case that differs from the date stipulated by law. the
     statutory subscription right may also be granted by the new shares being underwritten by one or
     more banks with the obligation of offering them to the shareholders for subscription (indirect
     subscription right). the executive board is authorized, with the approval of the supervisory board, to
     exclude shareholders’ subscription rights if the issue price of the new shares is not significantly lower
     than the stock exchange price for company shares of the same kind at the time of setting the issue
     price. in line with the modalities of this disapplication of preemptive rights, the shares issued in
     accordance with section 203(1) and section 186(3) no. 4 of the aktg (german stock corporation act)
     may not exceed 10% of the share capital of the company either at the time at which this authorization
     takes effect or at the time at which it is exercised (upper limit). the upper limit of 10% shall be
     reduced by the proportionate amount of the share capital allocable to shares (i) issued during the
     term of the authorized capital iii under disapplication of preemptive rights in accordance with
     section 71(1) no. 8 sentence 5, and section 186(3) sentence 4 of the aktg (german stock corporation
     act) or (ii) issued to service convertible or option bonds with option or conversion privileges or
     obligations issued by gea group aktiengesellschaft or a subordinate group company of the
     company, as long as the convertible or option bonds have been issued during the term of the
     authorized capital iii under disapplication of preemptive rights in accordance with section 186(3)
     sentence of the 4 aktg. the executive board is further authorized, with the approval of the
     supervisory board, to disapply shareholders’ preemptive rights (i) insofar as it is necessary to
     eliminate fractional amounts, and (ii) in order to grant the creditors of convertible or option bonds
     with option or conversion privileges or obligations issued by gea group aktiengesellschaft or a
     subordinate group company of the company a right to subscribe to new shares to the extent to which
     they would be entitled after exercising the option or conversion rights or after fulfilling conversion
     obligations. finally, the executive board is authorized, with the approval of the supervisory board, to
     stipulate the further details of the capital increases from authorized capital iii and the terms and
     conditions of the share issue.

     under a resolution adopted by the annual general meeting on april 16, 2015, the share capital was
     contingently increased by up to eur 51,903,633.82, comprising up to 19,200,000 bearer shares
     (article 4(6) of the articles of association, contingent capital 2015). the contingent capital increase
     will only be implemented to the extent that the holders of conversion or option privileges from
     convertible bonds or option bonds, profit participation rights or profit participating bonds or a
     combination of these instruments issued against cash contributions by gea group aktiengesellschaft
     or a subordinate group company of the company on the basis of the authorization by the annual
     general meeting resolution dated april 16, 2015 exercise their conversion or option privileges, or, if
     they are obliged to convert or exercise options, satisfy their obligation to convert or exercise options,
     and if no cash settlement is granted or own shares or shares of another listed company are used in




60                                             gea annual report 2015

                    combined group management report / report on economic position




settlement. new shares will be issued at the conversion or option price to be determined in each case
in accordance with the authorizing resolution referred to above. the new shares bear dividend rights
from the beginning of the fiscal year in which they were created as a result of the exercising of
conversion or option privileges or the fulfillment of conversion or option obligations. the executive
board is authorized, with the approval of the supervisory board, to determine the further details of
the implementation of the contingent capital increase.

under a resolution adopted by the annual general meeting dated april 16, 2015, gea group
aktiengesellschaft is authorized to purchase own shares up to a total of 10 percent of the total
proportionate amount of share capital in accordance with section 71(1) no. 8 of the aktg. the
authorization is valid until april 15, 2020. the shares may be purchased via the stock exchange or by
means of a public purchase offer to all shareholders. the shares may subsequently be used for all
purposes allowed by law. with the approval of the supervisory board, the shares may also (i) be sold in
another manner than through the stock exchange or by means of a public offering addressed to all
shareholders, provided that the issue price of the new shares is not significantly lower than the price
for gea group aktiengesellschaft shares of the same kind at the time of sale, (ii) be transferred to
third parties for the purpose of business combinations or the acquisition of companies, parts of
companies, or equity interests in companies or other assets, (iii) be used to service convertible or
option bonds, (iv) be used to implement a scrip dividend or (v) be withdrawn. further details on the
resolutions on the share buyback adopted by the annual general meeting on april 16, 2015 are
available in the invitation to the annual general meeting, which was published in the electronic
federal gazette on march 9, 2015.

material agreements that take effect in the event of a change of control
following a takeover bid
the individual lenders of the syndicated credit line (club deal) amounting to eur 650 million may
refuse new drawdowns in the event of a change of control. the lenders may call in any amounts
already drawn down and terminate the respective credit line giving 20 days’ notice.

in the case of the bond issue in the amount of approximately eur 275 million, each bondholder has
the right to require repayment by the issuer of the nominal amount of their bonds, including accrued
interest, if there is a change of control and, as a result, the credit rating is revised downwards to
noninvestment grade within 90 days of the change of control taking effect. to exercise this right to
early repayment, the bondholder has to submit a corresponding exercise notice within 45 days of
publication of the event by the issuer.

in the event of a change of control, the lenders of the borrower’s note loans in the total amount of
eur 90 million are entitled to require early repayment of their loan receivable, including interest
accrued up to the date of the early repayment. the borrower determines the repayment date, which
may not be fewer than 60 days and more than 90 days after the date on which the borrower was
informed of the change of control and notified the lenders of this via the paying agent.

in the case of the loan agreement with the european investment bank (eib) amounting to
eur 50 million, the eib is entitled to call in the loan and require early repayment including accrued
interest in the event of a change of control. in this case, the borrower is obliged to repay the amount
on the date specified by the bank, which may not be earlier than 30 days after the repayment request.




                                         gea annual report 2015                                           61

                         combined group management report / report on economic position




     under a master loan agreement for eur 230 million, which is primarily used to issue guarantees for
     subsidiaries, the lender has the right in the event of an imminent change of control to negotiate the
     continuation of the agreement under changed terms. if no agreement is reached, the master loan
     agreement will fall due with immediate effect. in this case, the lender must be released from its
     obligations under guarantees furnished within two months or, at the discretion of the borrower, the
     latter shall make a cash deposit in the amount of the outstanding obligations under the guarantees
     furnished.

     all performance shares under the gea performance share plan expire in the event of a change of
     control. managers who have participated in the plan then receive a compensation payment for the
     expired performance shares. this payment corresponds to the allocated target value in each case.

     a change of control within the meaning of these agreements and the gea performance share plan is
     deemed to have occurred in particular if a majority of voting rights or shares of the company are
     transferred to a single person or group of persons.

     compensation arrangements with members of the executive board or employees
     executive board members’ contracts include provisions on the calculation of bonuses in the event of
     a change of control. additional details can be found in the remuneration report starting on page 71.
     further compensation arrangements with employees have been agreed with regard to the
     performance shares under the gea performance share plan.

     key attributes of the internal control and risk management system
     relating to the financial reporting process
     see the “risk management system” and “internal control system” sections starting on page 86 ff. of
     the management report.

     overall assessment of business development
     despite another economic downturn and the burden of extensive group reorganization, gea closed
     fiscal year 2015 with success. the key indicators for the group underscore this solid performance.

     at the start of the year, an increasingly challenging market environment characterized by the greek
     sovereign debt crisis was further exacerbated by an economic downswing in many emerging markets
     – notably in china, gea’s second biggest market. increasing geopolitical tensions also had a negative
     impact on global economic growth.

     inside the company, gea’s new group structure – more centralized on the inside, while ensuring
     much more direct lines of contact with the customer on the outside thanks to uniform national
     organizations – was implemented on schedule. by the end of the year, the savings made even
     surpassed expectations slightly. 2015 additionally saw the company complete four acquisitions with
     an annual revenue volume of more than eur 120 million. against this backdrop, the company can
     look back on what was a more than solid performance in the fiscal year 2015.

     despite the challenging business environment, gea posted growth in revenue of 1.9 percent, the
     value of eur 4.6 billion constituting an all-time record. both business areas played a part in this
     outcome with record revenue volumes. and the operating result (ebitda) was even better, this
     indicator increasing by more than 5 percent to eur 621.0 million. this corresponds to an operating




62                                           gea annual report 2015

 combined group management report / report on economic position / report on post-balance sheet date events




ebitda margin of 13.5 percent. both operating ebitda and the corresponding margin represent all-
time highs for gea. with respect to our operating cash flow driver, a very good ratio to revenue of
10.3 percent was also achieved. gea therefore remains in robust economic shape.

summing up, with the exception of revenue, it can be said that all forecasts communicated at the
beginning of fiscal year 2015 were met or exceeded, and that the increased earnings per share and the
provisions set aside under commercial law of gea group aktiengesellschaft have made it possible to
propose a higher dividend. all told, therefore, gea’s business development in 2015 can be considered
positive.


report on post-balance sheet date events
on february 2, 2016, gea concluded an agreement to take over imaforni int’l s.p.a., a leading
supplier of high-tech plant and equipment for pastry production. with head offices in verona, italy,
the company has around 210 employees and generated revenue of some eur 85 million in fiscal year
2015. the acquisition will reinforce gea’s “application center bakery” by adding modern production
lines, especially for biscuits and crackers.

following the appointment on september 23, 2015 of two new board members (see page 37) and the
decision by markus hüllmann to leave the company at the end of the fiscal year, the responsibilities
of the executive board members were realigned with effect from january 1, 2016. thus, as from the
start of 2016, chairman of the executive board jürg oleas will have responsibility for all regions,
dr. helmut schmale for all finance functions and the shared service center, steffen bersch for the
business area equipment, niels erik oleas for the business area solutions, and dr. stephan petri for
human resources, legal & compliance, and internal audit (in addition to his function as labor
relations director).

there were no further significant events occurring in the period between the end of fiscal 2015 and
the date the annual report was prepared that could have influenced the disclosures on the course of
business and the expected development of the group.




                                          gea annual report 2015                                             63

                         combined group management report / corporate governance report




     corporate governance report
     including corporate governance statement
     the corporate governance statement issued in accordance with s. 289a handelsgesetzbuch (hgb –
     german commercial code) does not form part of the annual audit pursuant to s. 317 para. 2 sentence
     3 german commercial code.

     transparent, responsible corporate governance and control geared towards long-term value enhancement
     are given high priority at gea group aktiengesellschaft. in doing so, we align our actions with the
     generally accepted principles of corporate governance while implementing the suggestions and
     recommendations of the german corporate governance code as amended on may 5, 2015 (published in
     the federal gazette on june 12, 2015) to the greatest possible extent.

     declaration of conformity
     gea group aktiengesellschaft complies with the recommendations of the german corporate
     governance code (gcgc) as amended on may 5, 2015, and published by the federal ministry of justice
     in the official section of the federal gazette with the following exemption and will continue to comply
     with these recommendations with such exemption:

     currently, the amount of compensation awarded to the members of the executive board is not capped,
     neither overall nor for individual compensation components (no. 4.2.3 para. 2 sentence 6 gcgc).

     explanation:

     if the services of the executive board members entail an extraordinary increase in shareholder value,
     the supervisory board may, at its sole and reasonable discretion, grant a special bonus in accordance
     with the executive board service agreements. the executive board members are not entitled to
     receive such extraordinary bonus. the respective clause set forth in the service agreements
     concluded with the executive board members only authorizes the supervisory board to make an
     adequate discretionary decision based on statutory provisions and within the limits of the
     jurisdiction of the highest courts. currently, the amount of this special bonus, which may only be
     awarded in exceptional circumstances, is not yet expressly capped in the service agreements of all
     executive board members. we consider that an amendment to existing service agreements will not
     be required in the light of both the restrictive statutory rules in place and the limits defined by the
     highest courts. the service agreements of the executive board members will be amended accordingly
     step by step whenever executive board members are reappointed or appointed for the first time.

     since the issuance of the last declaration of conformity on december 18, 2014, gea group
     aktiengesellschaft has complied with the recommendations of the gcgc as amended on june 24,
     2014, and published by the federal ministry of justice in the official section of the federal gazette, as
     well as, since their publication in the federal gazette, with the recommendations of the gcgc as
     amended on may 5, 2015, with the above exception in relation to no. 4.2.3 para.2 sentence 6 gcgc.


     düsseldorf, december 17, 2015

     on behalf of the supervisory board            on behalf of the executive board



     dr. jürgen heraeus			                         jürg oleas          dr. stephan petri




64                                            gea annual report 2015

                   combined group management report / corporate governance report




global business conduct policy
the global business conduct policy of gea group aktiengesellschaft stipulates that the group’s
business activities are to comply with all existing laws and high ethical standards. this global
business conduct policy applies to all employees and gea bodies worldwide. it is supplemented by
guidelines on individual topics, in particular the anti-corruption guideline. in addition, the
company and the european works council jointly agreed general principles of social corporate
responsibility (“codes of conduct”) laying down ethical, social and legal standards that are binding
on all gea employees. based on our global business conduct policy and the “codes of conduct”, a
globally applicable and uniform policy governing the areas of health, safety & environment (“hse”)
is in place. the global business conduct policy, the anti-corruption guideline, the hse policy and
further information are published on the website of gea group aktiengesellschaft under investor
relations/corporate governance.

compliance
compliance in the sense of measures designed to ensure adherence to legal, statutory and internal
corporate policies, as well as group companies’ compliance therewith, is considered to be a key
management and supervisory task at gea group. for this purpose, the company established a
compliance organization some years ago. group-wide compliance activities focus on corruption
prevention, anti-trust law, export control as well as data protection. the chief compliance officer
coordinates and ensures the implementation of compliance measures, in particular in the areas
mentioned above. in this capacity, he/she reports to both the executive board and the audit
committee of the supervisory board. the chief compliance officer is supported by the extended
legal compliance and operational export control organization. the latter was adjusted in connection
with the “fit for 2020” project. from now on, key legal compliance activities will be concentrated
under the “compliance & principle legal matters” section in the group legal department. when the
new organization came into place, the former segment compliance officers were replaced the
business area compliance officers who are also part of the central legal department. as before, each
operating company is assigned a company compliance manager. in addition, a compliance
committee advising the chief compliance officer may be convened if need be. in parallel, gea
operates a worldwide export control organization. upon entry into force of the new organization, the
former segment export managers were replaced by business area export managers. like before,
each operating company is assigned one company export manager.

the members of the compliance organization meet at regular intervals to discuss the latest
developments and the potential impact of and/or need to supplement gea’s compliance program.
since december 1, 2014, gea has relied on the so-called integrity system that was implemented on a
global level. this integrity system allows gea employees and external third parties to report
suspected compliance infringements or violations of gea’s codes of conduct – principles of social
responsibility – via an internet-based system. moreover, the group employees responsible for
compliance regularly receive classroom and web-based trainings covering current issues and
regulations relative to the law, the global business conduct policy and gea’s additional compliance
guidelines. gea’s extensive compliance program is rounded off by a close cooperation between the
compliance organization and the group’s internal audit department as well as direct talks held at a
local level between representatives of the compliance organization and local managers for evaluating
best practices within the group.




                                        gea annual report 2015                                         65

                         combined group management report / corporate governance report




     finally, the company set up an hse organization designed to develop and implement group-wide
     guidelines, programs and procedures in this specific field.

     responsible risk management
     sustainable growth can only be achieved if both the opportunities and the risks associated with
     business activities are identified and adequately taken into account. for this reason, an effective
     control and risk management system represents one of the core elements of corporate governance at
     gea. further information is provided on pages 86 ff. of this annual report.

     transparency in accounting and audit transparency
     gea group aktiengesellschaft is committed to transparent reporting. the company’s consolidated
     financial statements and half-yearly financial reports are prepared in accordance with the
     international financial reporting standards (ifrs) as adopted by the european union. the single
     entity financial statements of gea group aktiengesellschaft, which are legally required and
     determine dividend payout, are governed by the german handelsgesetzbuch (hgb – german
     commercial code). the supervisory board engages the external auditor elected by the shareholders
     at the annual general meeting. the audit committee gives particular attention to the oversight of
     the accounting process, the effectiveness of the internal control, risk management and internal audit
     systems, the audit of the annual financial statements as well as compliance, agrees the key audit areas
     with the auditor while resolving on the audit fee. in doing so, it ensures that the auditor’s work is not
     compromised by any conflicts of interest and that the auditor immediately reports on any and all
     findings and events relevant to the supervisory board’s discharge of duties that have come to the
     attention of the auditor in the course of the audit. in addition to the consolidated and annual
     financial statements, the audit committee also discusses the half-yearly and quarterly reports with
     the executive board.

     detailed reporting
     gea group aktiengesellschaft communicates openly, actively and extensively. it regularly and
     promptly informs shareholders, shareholders’ associations, analysts, and interested members of the
     public on equal terms about the company’s situation as well as any material changes to its business.
     in this respect, the company’s website constitutes an important means of communication. it contains
     annual and interim reports, press releases, ad hoc disclosures as well as other notifications required
     under the wertpapierhandelsgesetz (wphg – german securities trading act), the financial calendar
     and other relevant information. moreover, the group regularly holds analyst meetings, press
     conferences and events for investors. all presentations delivered on these occasions can also be
     downloaded from our website under “investors”.

     directors‘ dealings and shareholdings of members of governing bodies
     under section 15a wertpapierhandelsgesetz (wphg – german securities trading act), executive
     board and supervisory board members or their related parties are obliged to disclose reportable
     transactions in shares of gea group aktiengesellschaft or related financial instruments if the
     transactions concluded in one calendar year reach or exceed the threshold of eur 5,000. the
     transactions reported to the company in the previous fiscal year 2015 were duly published and are
     available on the company’s website. the total number of shares in gea group aktiengesellschaft
     held by all executive board and supervisory board members amounts to less than 1 percent of the
     shares issued by the company.




66                                            gea annual report 2015

                    combined group management report / corporate governance report




securities-based remuneration program for company executives
with effect from july 1, 2006, gea group aktiengesellschaft launched a long-term, share price-based
remuneration program called “gea performance share plan” for certain managers below executive
board level. details are available in note 7.3.4 (see page 190 ff.) to the consolidated financial
statements.

corporate governance and control: executive board and supervisory board
gea group aktiengesellschaft is subject to the german stock corporation act and, thus, runs a dual
board system comprising an executive and a supervisory board. the executive board constitutes the
group’s management body. the supervisory board, which is composed of twelve members, half of
whom are shareholder representatives while the other half comprises employee representatives,
appoints and advises the executive board while overseeing its work. the executive board and the
supervisory board cooperate closely for the benefit of the company, their common goal being the
sustainable increase in enterprise value.

executive board
the executive board holds overall responsibility for the management of the company in accordance
with statutory requirements, the articles of association as well as the rules of procedure and the
corporate policies that are in place. in line with the rules of procedure of the executive board, each
executive board member has overall responsibility for and independently manages the area of
responsibility assigned to him under the schedule of responsibilities, while keeping the entire
executive board informed of any and all essential business matters on a permanent basis. decisions
on subject matters of fundamental importance or particular magnitude must be taken by the entire
executive board. executive board resolutions are adopted at regular meetings or, should no member
of the executive board raise any objections, in writing, orally (also via telephone), via telefax or by
referring to other common means of communication such as email. each member of the executive
board must immediately disclose conflicts of interests to the supervisory board and inform the other
members of the executive board, accordingly.

the executive board reports to the supervisory board regularly, promptly and comprehensively on
all issues relating to strategy, planning, business progress, risk exposure, the risk management system
as well as compliance that are relevant to the company. should important issues or business matters
that may considerably impact on the situation of the company arise, the executive board will notify
the chairman of the supervisory board without undue delay. the articles of association and the
rules of procedure specify key transactions that require the supervisory board’s approval. further
information on the individual members of the executive board can be found on pages 21 and 232 of
this annual report.

supervisory board
the supervisory board advises the executive board on the management of the company and
oversees its conduct of the company’s business. between the supervisory board meetings, the
chairman of the supervisory board maintains regular contact with the executive board, in particular
the chairman of the executive board, with whom he discusses matters of strategy, planning, business
progress, risk exposure, risk management and compliance that are of relevance to the company. the
supervisory board usually holds 6 meetings per calendar year that are attended by the executive
board members unless the chairman of the supervisory board determines otherwise. as a rule, the




                                         gea annual report 2015                                           67

                         combined group management report / corporate governance report




     supervisory board’s resolutions are adopted at these meetings. unless the majority of supervisory
     board members immediately object, the chairman of the supervisory board can instruct the
     members to adopt resolutions during a conference call or a video conference or outside of meetings
     by casting their votes in writing, text form or by telephone. resolutions require a simple majority of
     the votes cast unless the law provides for a different majority. after notice of the meeting has been
     given to all members, the supervisory board has a quorum when a minimum of half of its members
     vote on a resolution by attending in person, by telephone or video conference or have cast their votes
     in writing or text form pursuant to s. 108 para. 3 aktiengesetz (aktg - german stock corporation act).

     when appointing members to the executive board and proposing candidates for election to the
     supervisory board, the supervisory board and its committees will take into account a balanced mix
     of specialist expertise and personal attributes as well as the criterion of diversity.

     at its meeting held on december 17, 2015, the supervisory board revised the specific objectives
     relative to its composition, which had previously been amended in 2014, by taking into consideration
     the recommendations set out in the german corporate governance code, resolving as follows: in
     general, the members of the supervisory board – while taking into account the specific situation of
     the company – are to have the knowledge, skills and specialist expertise required to ensure the
     proper performance of their duties. in this context, the supervisory board will also pay attention to
     industry knowledge, an adequate number of independent members, international experience as well
     as diversity. with a view to the best interests of the company, the decisive criterion for appointments
     of supervisory board members shall always be the specialist expertise and personal suitability of the
     respective candidate.

     with a view to section 5.4.1 paragraph 1 sentence 1 of the german corporate governance code, the
     supervisory board seeks to ensure a board composition that takes into account the following elements in
     relation to the current and next term of office: the number of supervisory board members with an
     international background is to be at least maintained at its current level. in terms of the origin, the
     professional and cultural background as well as the age and gender of its members, the supervisory
     board is to reflect diversity. the supervisory board shall include – what it considers to be – an adequate
     number of independent members (s. 2 para. 3 rules of procedure of the supervisory board). the
     supervisory board seeks to ensure that a minimum of two thirds of the shareholder representatives is
     independent in line with the definition given under section 5.4.2 sentence 2 of the german corporate
     governance code. as a rule, a member’s uninterrupted service on the supervisory board shall not exceed
     three full terms of office and/or a period of 15 years. as a rule, nominations shall only consider
     individuals who have not yet reached the age of 70 at the date of the annual general meeting resolving
     on the election of the proposed candidates (s. 2 para. 1 rules of procedure of the supervisory board). in
     its current composition, the supervisory board complies with these targets.

     with brigitte krönchen’s appointment as new employee representative in november 2014, the number
     of female supervisory board members climbed to three; as a result, the current proportion of women on
     the supervisory board amounts to 25 percent. the supervisory board is cognizant of the fact that the
     entry into force of the act on equal participation of women and men in executive positions in the
     private and the public sector implies a legally binding minimum quota of 30 percent for the
     underrepresented gender on the supervisory board that will be applicable to any future supervisory
     board elections held as of 2016. in the future, the supervisory board candidates proposed for election
     will comply with this requirement.




68                                             gea annual report 2015

                    combined group management report / corporate governance report




supervisory board committees
the work of the supervisory board is supported by committees. these are primarily the presiding
committee and the audit committee, as well as the statutory mediation committee and the
nomination committee recommended by the german corporate governance code. the presiding
committee, the audit committee and the mediation committee each comprise four members and
feature equal representation of shareholder and employee representatives. the nomination
committee consists of three members who include exclusively shareholder representatives in
accordance with section 5.3.3 of the german corporate governance code.

both the presiding committee and the audit committee usually meet four to five times each calendar
year. during meetings, presiding committee and audit committee resolutions are adopted by a
simple majority of the votes cast, while outside of meetings, they are passed by a simple majority of
the members. if the vote is tied, the respective chairman has a casting vote in the event of another
ballot on the same resolution. the nomination committee and the mediation committee only hold
meetings when required.

the duties of the presiding committee, which is chaired by the chairman of the supervisory board,
include the preparation of the meetings of the supervisory board. furthermore, the presiding
committee’s specific responsibility is to define the legal relationship between the company and the
individual executive board members, and to ensure executive board succession planning. in this
context, decisions on the executive board remuneration system, the total remuneration awarded to
the individual executive board members, as well as their appointment and dismissal are reserved to
the full supervisory board.

the audit committee, whose chairman has a sound knowledge of and experience in applying
financial accounting and reporting standards as well as internal control systems, is primarily
responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process and dealing with matters regarding the
efficiency of the internal control system, the risk management system, the internal audit process and
the audit of the annual financial statements. in addition, it monitors compliance with key legislation
and official regulations, as well as internal guidelines including gea’s global business conduct policy
(compliance).

the mediation committee performs its duties as set out in ss. 27, 31 mitbestimmungsgesetz
(mitbestg - german co-determination act). the task of the nomination committee is to propose
suitable candidates to the supervisory board based upon which the latter submits its nominations to
the annual general meeting.

further information on the composition of the supervisory board and its committees can be found
on the company’s website at www.gea.com, as well as on pages 232 and 233 of this annual report. in
addition, the report of the supervisory board on pages 17 ff. of this annual report gives further
details on the activities performed by the supervisory board and its committees in the fiscal year 2015.




                                         gea annual report 2015                                            69

                         combined group management report / corporate governance report




     commitment to promoting the participation of women in executive positions in accordance
     with s. 76 para. 4 and s. 111 para. 5 aktiengesetz (german stock corporation act)

     since 2011, gea has promoted diversity within the group. a detailed description of our diversity
     strategy is provided in the sustainability report (see page 111). within the framework of its diversity
     strategy, gea, inter alia, pursues the objective of promoting female talent and attracting more women
     to gea. in the long run, the company is seeking to increase the proportion of women on all
     management levels. gea will continue to encourage this process by means of strategic measures.

     the act on equal participation of women and men in executive positions in the private and public
     sector, which took effect in april 2015, for the first time requires certain companies in germany to
     define targets in relation to the proportion of women represented on the supervisory board, the
     executive board and/or the board of directors as well as on the two management levels below, and to
     set target dates for achieving the respective quota of women. in this context, the law requires that the
     first deadline for implementation to be set by the company shall be no later than june 30, 2017. with
     effect from january 1, 2016, a statutory minimum quota of 30 percent applies to the underrepresented
     gender on the supervisory boards of listed and codetermined companies like gea group
     aktiengesellschaft; this quota has to be observed whenever the company seeks to replace a retiring
     supervisory board member.

     in view of the very brief maximum statutory period permitted for initial implementation of the
     relevant target that expires on june 30, 2017, and bearing in mind the current composition of the
     executive board, the supervisory board of gea group aktiengesellschaft resolved on a 0 percent
     target for the proportion of women represented on the executive board of gea group aktien­gesell­
     schaft at its supervisory board meeting held on september 23, 2015; this target is to be implemented
     in line with the above-mentioned first statutory period for implementation.

     on september 7, 2015, the executive board of gea group aktiengesellschaft determined target quotas
     in relation to the proportion of women represented on the first and/or second management level
     below the executive board of gea group aktiengesellschaft, with first-time implementation being
     subject to the maximum statutory period mentioned above. in the light of the brief initial deadline for
     implementation ending on june 30, 2017, the two defined targets of 18.1 percent and/or 23.5 percent
     reflect the status quo at the time the company made this commitment, which, of course, does not
     preclude an increase in the share of women on these two management levels.

     in due time, the other gea group companies affected by this law also set targets for the proportion of
     women represented on the supervisory board and/or the board of directors as well as the two
     uppermost management levels below the board of directors, and defined the deadlines for
     implementing these targets.




70                                            gea annual report 2015

                        combined group management report / remuneration report




remuneration report
the remuneration report outlines the key principles applied for determining the total remuneration
of the members of the executive board of gea group aktiengesellschaft and sets out the structure
and level of executive board remuneration. furthermore, it specifies the principles and the level of
remuneration awarded to the members of the supervisory board.

the remuneration report comprises details of the remuneration of board members pursuant to the
german commercial code in accordance with drs no. 17 (german accounting standard 17). since
gea complies with the corresponding recommendations of the german corporate governance code
(gcgc), this remuneration report also includes the model tables on executive board remuneration
pursuant to the gcgc (see p. 82 ff.).

executive board remuneration

general remarks
acting on the recommendation of the presiding committee, the supervisory board determines the
total remuneration of the individual executive board members and resolves on the remuneration
system applicable to the executive board. the supervisory board reviews the appropriateness of the
remuneration at regular intervals. criteria for determining the appropriateness of the remuneration
include the responsibilities of the individual executive board members, their respective personal
performance, the business situation, the success and the future prospects of the company as well as
the common level of compensation taking into account the peer companies and the compensation
structure in place in other areas of the company.

creating an incentive geared towards successful and sustainable corporate governance represents an
essential element of any decision taken with regard to the remuneration system. the latter is to
ensure that the executive board members strive for the long-term success of the company while
participating in a sustainable value enhancement. for this reason, a significant part of total
remuneration is tied to gea’s share performance as well as key performance indicators, notably a
combination of cash flow aspects and the return on capital employed (roce), i.e. a ratio for
measuring return on capital. this ensures that outstanding performance is adequately rewarded and
non-accomplishment of set targets results in a reduction in remuneration.

the remuneration system that was approved by a large majority of the votes at the annual general
meeting held on april 24, 2012, comprises non-performance-related and various performance-related
and/or variable components. the variable remuneration system seeks to provide for a highly balanced
risk and opportunity profile from the shareholders’ and executive board’s perspective and to further
enhance the sustainability of the remuneration system by decoupling short-term from long-term bonus
elements. in addition, it is comparatively simple to transfer the system to the management levels below
executive board level, thereby guaranteeing enhanced operations management.




                                         gea annual report 2015                                           71

                             combined group management report / remuneration report




     remuneration components
     in the fiscal year 2015, the remuneration of the executive board members was composed as follows:

     fixed components of remuneration and fringe benefits
     the non-performance-related component of remuneration mainly consists of a fixed annual salary
     that is paid in twelve equal installments at the end of each calendar month.

     the fixed annual salary awarded to jürg oleas in the year under review amounted to eur 1,250
     thousand per annum. dr. helmut schmale’s remuneration for the period starting january 1, 2015,
     through march 31, 2015, totaled eur 675 thousand per annum, increasing to eur 700 thousand per
     annum for the period commencing april 1, 2015, through december 31, 2015, dr. stephan petri’s
     salary for the period starting january 1, 2015, through may 31, 2015, totaled eur 550 thousand per
     annum, increasing to eur 570 thousand per annum for the period commencing june 1, 2015, through
     december 31, 2015, while markus hüllmann was awarded eur 550 thousand per annum in the year
     under review.

     in addition, the executive board members receive fringe benefits. during the year under review, the
     latter mainly comprised the value of the company car use in accordance with tax regulations,
     accident insurance premiums, and – for markus hüllmann – the reimbursement of costs incurred for
     the maintenance of two households.

     variable components of remuneration
     in addition, each member of the executive board receives a variable annual remuneration (bonus)
     whose level depends on the achievement of specific targets set by the supervisory board. in terms of
     a target achievement of 100 percent, the level of variable remuneration equals that of the fixed
     remuneration component (target bonus). to ensure that both positive and negative developments are
     taken into account, the proportion of variable remuneration increases or decreases in the event of
     target over- or underachievement.

     the bonus consists of 3 components. the latter comprise both one-year and multi-year bases of
     assessment. each of the 3 components provides for a cap. furthermore, taken together, all 3 bonus
     components applicable to a specific fiscal year are limited to 240 percent of the target bonus (overall
     cap). at its own discretion, the supervisory board takes into account extraordinary events and
     developments indicating that a readjustment of the respective value computed in line with the
     provisions set forth in the contract is appropriate.

        individual component (weighting of 40 percent)
     the individual component of variable remuneration is payable with the next regular salary payment
     following the date of the supervisory board meeting convened to adopt the financial statements for
     the preceding fiscal year. its amount is calculated on the basis of 3 to 5 personal annual targets
     determined for the respective fiscal year by the supervisory board. when determining these
     individual targets, the supervisory board primarily bases its decision on the sustainability of
     corporate governance, for instance organic revenue growth relative to global economic growth. the
     supervisory board’s definition of the individual targets also includes their respective weighting.

     under the variable remuneration component, the individual component has a weighting of
     40 percent, i.e., 40 percent of the variable remuneration (target amount) is payable if 100 percent of
     the target set in relation to the individual component is achieved. the overall degree of target
     achievement and, thus, the amount paid out under the individual component, are limited to
     200 percent of this target amount (cap).




72                                            gea annual report 2015

                                           combined group management report / remuneration report




after the end of the fiscal year, the supervisory board decides on the degree of target achievement.
for the year 2015, the supervisory board has ascertained a 106.0 percent degree of average target
achievement (previous year: 129.2 %) for the members of the executive board.1
    multi-year component (weighting of 40 percent)
the multi-year component is payable with the next regular salary payment following the date of the
supervisory board meeting convened to adopt the financial statements for the preceding fiscal year.
performance measurement under the multi-year component takes place retrospectively for the previous
3 fiscal years. the period of assessment covers the respective fiscal year just ended, as well as the two
preceding fiscal years. the basis of assessment is tied to key performance indicators embracing a
combination of cash flow aspects (the so-called “cash flow driver margin” (cfdm)) and the “return on
capital employed” (roce).

- the cfdm target is a simplified cash flow indicator (ebitda minus capital expenditure in
  property, plant and equipment as well as intangible assets (capex) minus change in working
  capital on a 12-month average) calculated as a ratio of revenue. the cfdm actually generated is
  calculated on the basis of average values achieved over the previous three years. the degree of
  target achievement results from a comparison between the achieved cfdm and the target value or
  target achievement corridor defined by the supervisory board. as for the fiscal year 2015, just like
  the previous year, 100 percent of the target is achieved if the group’s cfdm during the preceding
  three-year period averages 8 percent. if the cfdm is lower or higher, the degree of target
  achievement will go up or down, with a cfdm less than or equal to 4.5 percent being equivalent to
  a target achievement of zero percent, while a cfdm greater than or equal to 13.25 percent
  represents a maximum target achievement of 250 percent.

- the level of the roce component (roce: return on capital employed), which is calculated on the
  basis of average values attained over the previous three years, corresponds to the ratio of earnings
  before interest and taxes (ebit) to the capital employed, while excluding goodwill arising on the
  acquisition of the former gea ag by the former metallgesellschaft ag back in 1999 including
  effects attributable to the award proceedings. the degree of target achievement depends on the
  actual roce achieved compared with the target value or target achievement corridor of +/- 5
  percentage points defined by the supervisory board. as for 2015, just like the previous year,
  100 percent of the target is achieved if the group’s roce averages 19 percent during the preceding
  three-year period. if the actual roce level is greater than or less than this percentage, but within
  the defined corridor of +/- 5 percentage points, the degree of target achievement is increased or
  reduced by up to 50 percentage points.

the key performance indicators cfdm and roce are adjusted for the impact of acquisitions made in
the fiscal year 2014 or later. with respect to acquisitions, such adjustment is effected in the year of
first-time consolidation, and in the following fiscal year, respectively. the adjustment includes all
acquisitions that require the consent of the supervisory board or the presiding committee of the
supervisory board.

for calculating the overall degree of target achievement, the respective degrees of target achievement
relevant to the individual key performance indicators cfdm and roce are multiplied. under the
variable remuneration component, the multi-year component has a weighting of 40 percent, i.e.
40 percent of variable remuneration is payable (target amount) if 100 percent of the target set in relation
to the multi-year component is achieved. the overall degree of target achievement and, thus, the amount
paid out under the multi-year component, are limited to 250 percent of this target amount (cap).


1) the degree of target achievement is a rounded figure.




                                                           gea annual report 2015                             73

                                                 combined group management report / remuneration report




     during the preceding three-year period an average of 8.3 percent was achieved for the cfdm key
     performance indicator that is the result of a cfdm of 9.6 percent in the fiscal year 2013, 9.0 percent in
     the fiscal year 2014 and 6.3 percent in the fiscal year 2015. thus, in 2015, the degree of target
     achievement for the cfdm amounts to 108.5 percent (previous year: 95.8 percent). for the roce key
     performance indicator an average of 20.0 percent was achieved during the preceding three-year
     period; it is the result of a roce of 22.1 percent in the fiscal year 2013, 22.6 percent in the fiscal year
     2014 and 15.2 percent in the fiscal year 2015. thus, for the fiscal year 2015, the degree of roce target
     achievement amounts to 110.0 percent (previous year: 114.8 percent). as to the variable remuneration
     awarded in 2015, the overall degree of target achievement under the multi-year component amounted
     to 119.3 percent (previous year: 109.9 percent).2
        share price component (weighting of 20 percent)
     the long-term share price component is payable at the end of a three-year performance period with
     the next regular salary payment following the date of the supervisory board meeting convened to
     adopt the financial statements for the preceding fiscal year. performance measurement relating to the
     long-term share price component is conducted by taking a forward-looking approach. the period of
     assessment covers a three-year performance period including the relevant fiscal year as well as the
     two subsequent fiscal years.

     under the variable remuneration component, the long-term share price component has a weighting
     of 20 percent, i.e., 20 percent of variable remuneration is payable (target amount) if 100 percent of the
     set target is achieved. the overall degree of target achievement and, thus, the amount paid out under
     the long-term share price component is limited to 300 percent of the target amount (cap).

     performance measurement for the relevant three-year period is conducted by means of a comparison
     between the performance of gea shares (adjusted for dividends) and the performance of the
     stoxx® europe tmi industrial engineering (tmi ie) index, in which a large number of european
     industrial firms are listed. this comparison is computed on the basis of the respective arithmetic
     mean closing prices on the last 20 trading days preceding the start of the three-year performance
     period. 100 percent of the target is attained if the evolution of the daily arithmetic mean closing
     prices of gea’s share fully (i.e. 100 percent) corresponds to the relevant tmi ie performance during the
     three-year performance period. the degree of target achievement increases or decreases by 4 percent
     for each percentage point greater than or less than a performance level of 100 percent. in the event of
     outperformance greater than 100 percent, the amount paid out rises to a maximum of 300 percent of
     the target amount. if the increase in gea’s share price over the three-year period is less than
     100 percent of the growth in the tmi ie, the amount payable is reduced accordingly down to a
     performance level of 75 percent. should gea shares have dropped, the supervisory board may still
     award a payment if gea shares have nonetheless outperformed the tmi ie. such a decision and the
     level of the amount to be paid out are subject to discretion by the supervisory board.

     during the year under review, no payment under the long-term share price component was made as
     the latter (in a forward-looking way) is measured over a three-year period. the amount paid out under
     the long-term share price component for the fiscal year 2015 is measured over the three-year period
     between 2015 and 2017; payment is scheduled for the fiscal year 2018. in the year under review, the
     2012 tranche in the amount of eur 784 thousand was paid out on the basis of a target achievement
     level of 136.8 percent. as of december 31, 2015, the computed degree of target achievement for the
     2015 tranche amounted to 88.3 percent while totaling 116.6 percent (previous year: 98.7 percent) for
     the 2014 tranche and 199.0 percent for the 2013 tranche (previous year: 172.2 percent).3


     2) the degree of overall target achievement and/or degrees of target achievement are rounded figures, respectively.
     3) the degrees of target achievement are rounded figures, respectively.




74                                                                               gea annual report 2015

                             combined group management report / remuneration report




   summary of the variable remuneration components
the following table summarizes the respective weighting and assessment periods applicable to the
variable components:


variable remuneration                                                                           assessment period
component               target               weighting   cap    overall cap   2013       2014         2015           2016        2017
individual component    personal targets       40%       200%                                       one year
                        combination of
                        cash flow driver
multi-year component                           40%       250%                    retrospective (3 years)
                        margin and                                240%
                        roce
long-term share price   share price in
                                               20%       300%                                              forward-looking (3 years)
component               relation to tmi ie



in exceptional circumstances, the supervisory board may also grant a special bonus to the members of
the executive board if their activities have resulted in an extraordinary value enhancement for the
benefit of the company’s shareholders. exercising its sole and reasonable discretion, the supervisory
board decides to grant this special bonus and sets the respective amount. in the currently applicable
service agreements concluded with dr. helmut schmale and dr. stefan petri, the level of this special
bonus, which may only be awarded in exceptional circumstances, is subject to an express cap equaling a
maximum of 100 percent of the target bonus. such a cap will also be stipulated in connection with
further reappointments or new appointments of executive board members. consequently, it was
incorporated into the service agreements of steffen bersch and niels erik olsen who were appointed to
the executive board with effect from january 1, 2016.

pension benefits and surviving dependents‘ benefits

jürg oleas
the contractual pension benefits of the chairman of the executive board, jürg oleas, will amount to a
maximum of eur 360 thousand p.a., with full entitlement to the pension arising after 18 years of service
(end of april 2019). under this agreement, maximum pension benefits will be awarded once his
executive board service agreement ends when or after he reaches the age of 62 or if he becomes
permanently unable to work. if jürg oleas’ service agreement ends before one of the aforementioned
conditions for payment of a pension is met or before he has completed 18 years of service, he will have
vested rights to a pro rata annual pension payable once he reaches the age of 62. the respective amount
is calculated based on the ratio of his actual years of service to the maximum period of 18 years of
service. if jürg oleas leaves the company after a minimum of 15 years of service, but before reaching the
age of 62, he will receive a pension in the form of a transitional benefit of eur 220 thousand p.a. until he
reaches the age of 62. in the event of mr. oleas’ premature departure, any agreed severance payment will
be set off against his transitional benefits. all and any income from activities he engages in after leaving
the company, but prior to reaching the age of 62, will be fully deducted from the transitional benefits up
to a maximum amount of half of the transitional payment awarded in the respective year. regular
pension benefits will be adjusted annually in line with the consumer price index.

the surviving dependents’ benefits defined in jürg oleas’ service agreement mainly provide for a lifelong
widow’s pension as well as an orphan’s pension. the lifelong widow’s pension amounts to 60 percent of
the retirement pension. the orphan’s pension is a specific percentage of the retirement pension and its
amount depends on the number of children and on whether they are full or half orphans. in principle,
entitlement to an orphan’s pension expires on reaching the age of 18, or at the latest on reaching the age
of 25 if the child in question is still at school or in vocational or professional training. collectively,
widow’s and orphan’s pensions must not exceed the amount of the retirement pension.




                                                     gea annual report 2015                                                             75

                            combined group management report / remuneration report




     dr. helmut schmale
     the contractual pension benefits of the chief financial officer, dr. helmut schmale, amount to a
     maximum of eur 200 thousand p.a. under this arrangement, maximum pension benefits will be paid
     once his service agreement ends when or after dr. schmale reaches the age of 62 or if he becomes
     permanently unable to work. should dr. helmut schmale’s service agreement end before one of the
     above conditions for payment of his pension is met, he will have vested rights to a pro rata annual
     pension that becomes payable once he reaches the age of 62. the amount of this pension is calculated
     on the basis of the ratio of his actual length of service for gea to the maximum possible length of
     service on reaching the age of 62. regular pensions will be adjusted annually in line with the
     consumer price index.

     should dr. helmut schmale be voluntarily enrolled in a state pension scheme, the company will pay
     the employer’s contribution to be granted under such a statutory pension scheme.

     in addition, in each fiscal year, dr. helmut schmale is entitled to make a personal contribution to a
     deferred compensation pension scheme for executive board members. no employer subsidy will be paid.

     the surviving dependents’ benefits defined in dr. helmut schmale’s service agreement are in line
     with the provisions outlined above in relation to jürg oleas.

     dr. stephan petri
     the contractual pension benefits of dr. stephan petri, member of the executive board, amount to a
     maximum of eur 200 thousand p.a. under this arrangement, maximum pension benefits will be paid
     once the executive board service agreement ends when or after dr. petri reaches the age of 62 or if he
     becomes permanently unable to work. should dr. stephan petri’s executive board service agreement
     end before one of the above conditions for payment of a pension is met, he will enjoy vested rights to
     a maximum annual pension of eur 200 thousand payable on reaching the age of 62 that may be
     reduced subject to the ratio of his actual term of service for gea group to the term of service
     required for obtaining his full pension benefits. regular pensions will be adjusted annually in line
     with the consumer price index.

     should dr. stefan petri be voluntarily enrolled in a state pension scheme, the company will pay the
     employer’s contribution to be granted under such a statutory pension scheme or one of the pension
     schemes for the liberal professions.

     in addition, in each fiscal year, dr. stephan petri is entitled to make a personal contribution to a
     deferred compensation pension scheme for executive board members. no employer subsidy will be
     paid. moreover, dr. stephan petri is entitled to personal contributions under the deferred
     compensation pension scheme in connection with his participation in gea’s executive pension
     scheme prior to his appointment to the executive board.

     the surviving dependents’ benefits defined in dr. stephan petri’s service agreement are in line with
     the provisions outlined above in relation to jürg oleas.




76                                           gea annual report 2015

                       combined group management report / remuneration report




markus hüllmann
the contractual pension benefits of markus hüllmann, member of the executive board, amount to a
maximum of eur 200 thousand p.a. under this arrangement, maximum pension benefits will be paid
once the executive board service agreement ends when or after markus hüllmann reaches the age of
62 or if he becomes permanently unable to work. should markus hüllmann’s executive board service
agreement end before one of the above conditions for payment of a pension is met, he will enjoy
vested rights to a maximum annual pension of eur 200 thousand payable on reaching the age of 62
that may be reduced subject to the ratio of his actual term of service for gea to the term of service
required for obtaining his full pension benefits. pursuant to these contractual provisions, mr.
hüllmann, who left gea at the end of the fiscal year 2015, will be entitled to receive a pro rata annual
pension in the amount of eur 147,590 on reaching the age of 62. regular pensions will be adjusted
annually in line with the consumer price index.

should markus hüllmann be voluntarily enrolled in a state pension scheme, the company will pay
the employer’s contribution to be granted under such a statutory pension scheme.

in addition, in each fiscal year, markus hüllmann is entitled to make a personal contribution to a
deferred compensation pension scheme for executive board members. no employer subsidy will be
paid. moreover, markus hüllmann is entitled to personal contributions under the deferred
compensation pension scheme in connection with his participation in gea’s executive pension
scheme prior to his appointment to the executive board.

the surviving dependents’ benefits defined in markus hüllmann’s service agreement are in line with
the provisions outlined above in relation to jürg oleas.

pension plan reinsurance and capitalization option
as the contractual pension commitments made to the members of the executive board had only been
partly protected against insolvency, namely in the amount of the sum covered by the pensions-
sicherungs-verein (psv - pension protection fund), the supervisory board decided to take out
pension plan reinsurance policies to secure the proportion of the pension commitments not covered
by the psv for the benefit of the individual executive board members in 2014. at the same time, the
members of the executive board were granted a capitalization option. the level of the capitalization
amount is equivalent to the pension liabilities ascertained by applying the basis of calculation used
for the purpose of preparing the consolidated financial statements. such capitalization option may be
exercised upon retirement, but no earlier than age 62. it will be possible to exercise this option in
part or several times. any exercise of such capitalization option will entail a corresponding reduction
of entitlements under the contractually guaranteed benefits for surviving dependents.




                                         gea annual report 2015                                            77

                                                 combined group management report / remuneration report




     pension scheme contributions and provisions for pension obligations
     the company has set aside pension provisions for the future entitlements of executive board
     members. the amounts added to such pension provisions for active executive board members in
     accordance with ifrs are listed individually in the table below as of the end of the fiscal year 2015.
     the corresponding amounts comprise service cost as well as interest cost.

                                                                                pension benefits p. a.
                                                                                  (as of 12/31/2015;         annual pension                               additions to   present value of
                                                                               annual entitlements at entitlements earned as                       pension provisions pension benefits as
     (eur)                                                                           start of pension)        of 12/31/2015                        in fiscal year 2015    of 12/31/2015
     jürg oleas                                                                                 360,000                       293,333                          576,105                 8,320,026
     dr. helmut schmale                                                                         200,000                       177,994                          298,980                 5,378,259
     dr. stephan petri *                                                                        256,695                       181,573                          302,692                 5,723,298
     markus hüllmann *                                                                          216,912                       164,503                          708,432                 3,461,561
     total                                                                                   1,033,607                       817,403                        1,886,209                22,883,144

     *) along with their pension benefits as members of the executive board in the amount of eur 200,000 per annum, dr. stephan petri and markus hüllmann are entitled to benefits from own
        contributions for deferred compensation in connection with their participation in the pension scheme for gea executives prior to their appointment as members of the executive board. the
        amount for dr. petri is eur 33,855 and eur 16,912 for markus hüllmann (calculated on the basis of a retirement age of 62, respectively). due to his participation in the deferred compensa-
        tion scheme for members of the executive board, dr. petri is entitled to benefits in the amount of eur 22,840 (calculated on the basis of a retirement age of 62).



     termination rights, premature termination of an executive board member‘s
     appointment, change of control events and effects on remuneration
     the chairman of the executive board has a unilateral right of termination if the supervisory board
     revokes his appointment as chairman of the executive board without simultaneously declaring the
     effective revocation of his appointment as a member of the executive board in accordance with s. 84
     para. 3 of the aktiengesetz (aktg - german stock corporation act). should he exercise his unilateral
     right of termination and leave the executive board, he will be entitled to receive the corresponding
     fixed salary for the remaining months of his contractual term, but no longer than 8 months.

     if the appointment of an executive board member is revoked for good cause with legal effect in
     accordance with s. 84 para. 3 aktg or if an executive board member validly resigns from office
     pursuant to s. 84 para. 3 of the aktg, the executive board member’s service agreement will end on
     expiry of the statutory notice period under s. 622 para.1, 2 bürgerliches gesetzbuch (bgb – german
     civil code).

     in this event, the respective executive board member will first of all receive the bonus he has earned
     and is entitled to up to the date of his departure. for calculating this bonus, an overall degree of target
     achievement in relation to the individual component is ascertained on the basis of the targets achieved
     by the executive board member up to the time of his departure. subsequently, the corresponding pro
     rata bonus under the individual component is calculated by forming the ratio of this overall degree of
     target achievement to the target amount set for the entire fiscal year. the pro rata bonus under the
     multi-year component for the relevant fiscal year is computed by applying the principle of pro rata
     temporis. as for annual tranches outstanding under the long-term share price component, a
     distinction is made between annual tranches in relation to which the first fiscal year (one-year vesting
     period) of the three-year performance period has not yet passed, and annual tranches in relation to
     which the first fiscal year has already passed. in the latter case, the pro rata bonus is fully vested and
     calculated without applying the principle of pro rata temporis, whereupon it will be paid out once the
     three-year performance period has elapsed. if the first fiscal year (one-year vesting period) has not yet
     passed, the pro rata bonus is ascertained by applying the principle of pro rata temporis (ratio of the
     actual period of service attained during the one-year vesting period to the full relevant one-year
     vesting period), whereupon it will be paid out after the three-year performance period.




78                                                                               gea annual report 2015

                       combined group management report / remuneration report




in addition, the respective executive board member will receive a severance payment amounting to
the total remuneration agreed for the rest of the contractual term as a compensation for his
premature departure from the company. for calculating the corresponding bonus entitlement, an
85 percent degree of target achievement is assumed in relation to the respective target amounts set
for bonus entitlements that have not yet vested over the course of the current year or will accrue over
a period of further years, as the case may be. the total remuneration for the remaining term is
limited to a maximum of 2 full years of remuneration (severance payment cap). in calculating the cap
on severance payment, reference is made to the executive board member’s respective total annual
remuneration received during the two calendar years preceding the termination of the service
agreement.

if the executive board service agreement is unilaterally terminated without good cause or terminated
by the company for good cause, any and all outstanding, undisbursed annual tranches payable under
the long-term share price component will be forfeited. moreover, there is no entitlement to any
severance payment in the event of the company exercising its right of lawful extraordinary
termination of the executive board member’s service agreement.

in the event of a change of control, the respective executive board member may opt for an early
payment at target value of any outstanding, fully vested tranches under the share price component.
this option shall apply regardless of whether or not the respective executive board member leaves
the company in connection with the change of control event. a change of control event is deemed to
have occurred as soon as the company is notified that a shareholder has reached or exceeded
50 percent or 75 percent of the voting rights in the company in accordance with s. 21 of the
wertpapierhandelsgesetz (wphg – german securities trading act), an intercompany agreement is
entered into with the company as a dependent company in accordance with s. 291 ff. of the aktg, or
absorption under s. 319 aktg or a change of legal form of the company in accordance with the
umwandlungsgesetz (umwg – german reorganization act) is resolved with legal effect. in the event
of a change of control, the executive board members have no right to unilaterally terminate their
respective service agreements.

remuneration of the members of the executive board

total remunerations in 2015 and 2014
during the year under review, total remunerations paid to active executive board members of gea
group aktiengesellschaft amounted to eur 6,374,980 and comprised both a fixed component of
eur 3,055,417 and a variable bonus of eur 3,188,415. the bonus attributable to the long-term share
price component is based on the fair value at grant date (january 1, 2015) and amounted to
eur 179,700 for jürg oleas, eur 97,038 for dr. schmale, eur 79,068 for markus hüllmann, and
eur 79,068 for dr. petri, a total of eur 434,874 for the year under review.

in the fiscal year 2014, the total remuneration paid to executive board members active in 2014 amounted
to eur 6,579,456 and comprised both a fixed component of eur 3,025,000 and a variable bonus of
eur 3,415,286. the bonus accounted for by the long-term share price component was based on the fair
value of the entitlement at grant date (january 1, 2014) and amounted to eur 215,275 for jürg oleas,
eur 116,249 for dr. helmut schmale, eur 94,721 for markus hüllmann, as well as eur 94,721 for
dr. stephan petri, i.e. a total of eur 520,966 in the fiscal year 2014.




                                         gea annual report 2015                                           79

                                              combined group management report / remuneration report




     the following table shows an individualized breakdown of fixed remuneration, variable components
     and other income:

                                             fixed                                                                                 non-cash          pension
     (eur)                            remuneration                          variable components                                     benefits        subsidies                      total
                                                          individual            multi-year           long-term share
                                                         component             component            price component 1
     jürg oleas                          1,250,000            530,000                   596,500                 179,700               24,092                      –          2,580,292
      previous year                      1,250,000            648,500                   549,500                 215,275               24,244                      –          2,687,519
     dr. helmut schmale                    693,750            294,150                   331,057                   97,038              44,052                 6,788           1,466,835
      previous year                        675,000            350,190                   296,730                 116,249               44,978                 6,747           1,489,894
     dr. stephan petri                     561,667            238,147                   268,027                   79,068              26,173                 6,788           1,179,870
      previous year                        550,000            280,500                   241,780                   94,721              21,168                 6,747          1,194,916
     markus hüllmann 2                     550,000            233,200                   262,460                   79,068              23,255                      –          1,147,983
      previous year                        550,000            285,340                   241,780                   94,721              35,286                      –          1,207,127
     total                               3,055,417          1,295,497                1,458,044                  434,874             117,572                13,576            6,374,980
      previous year                      3,025,000          1,564,530                1,329,790                  520,966             125,676                13,494            6,579,456

     1) during the year under review, no payment under the long-term share price component granted for 2015 was made, as this component is computed over a three-year period between
        2015 and 2017. the bonus payable under the long-term share price component is based on the fair value at grant date (january 1, 2015).
     2) due to his participation in the gea performance share plan 2012 during the period prior to his appointment to the executive board, markus hüllmann received an additional amount
        of eur 84,288.




     supplemental disclosures relating to share-based remuneration for the period 2013 to 2015
     in the fiscal years 2013 to 2015, share-based remuneration for the executive board was granted in the
     form of a long-term share price component. detailed information on existing entitlements of executive
     board members under these remuneration components is outlined in the table below.

     long-term share price component                                                                               fair value as of                                     fair value as of
     (eur)                                                                                                            12/31/2015                                           12/31/2014
     jürg oleas                                                                                                           979,300                                            1,110,575
     dr. helmut schmale                                                                                                   528,822                                              596,289
     niels graugaard                                                                                                        75,370                                             248,135
     dr. stephan petri                                                                                                    430,892                                              425,926
     markus hüllmann                                                                                                      376,164                                              283,157
     total                                                                                                              2,390,548                                            2,664,082




     supplemental disclosures relating to share-based remuneration for 2011
     in the fiscal years 2010 and 2011, the members of the executive board received their share-based
     remuneration in the form of phantom shares. the remuneration system applicable until the end of
     the fiscal year 2011 provided for a performance-related remuneration component that was awarded as
     a bonus. only half of this bonus was payable with the first salary payment following the date of the
     company’s supervisory board meeting convened to adopt the financial statements for the relevant
     fiscal year (“short-term bonus”), while the second half of the bonus was converted into phantom
     shares in the company whose payout amount was determined upon expiry of a holding period of
     three years (“long-term bonus”). detailed information on the remuneration system applicable until
     the end of the fiscal year 2011 is provided in the 2011 annual report (see ibid. page 65 ff.) that may be
     accessed on the company’s website (www.gea.com).

     detailed information on existing entitlements of executive board members from long-term bonuses
     awarded for the fiscal year 2011 may be inferred from the table below. the long-term bonuses awarded
     for the fiscal year 2011 were paid out during the year under review.




80                                                                          gea annual report 2015

                                           combined group management report / remuneration report




phantom shares                                                                                    number of awarded shares                            fair value (in eur)
                                                                                                                               2011                       2015                       2014
jürg oleas
 2011 tranche (number of phantom shares in 2011)                                                                            40,997                             -              1,570,185
dr. helmut schmale
 2011 tranche (number of phantom shares in 2011)                                                                            20,498                             -                 785,073
total                                                                                                                       61,495                             -              2,355,258



in the fiscal year 2015, the expenditure for share-based remuneration (i.e. the sum total of the fair value of
share-based remuneration awarded in the fiscal year in question as of balance sheet date and the change in
fair value in relation to entitlements under share-based remuneration in the fiscal year in question)
recognized in the consolidated ifrs financial statements amounted to eur 236 thousand for jürg oleas
(previous year: eur 437 thousand), eur 127 thousand for dr. schmale (previous year: eur 233 thousand),
eur 0 thousand for niels graugaard (previous year: eur 3 thousand), eur 93 thousand for dr. petri
(previous year: eur 137 thousand) and eur 93 thousand for markus hüllmann (previous year: eur 132
thousand).

further information on the awarded phantom shares and the long-term share price component is
outlined in note 7.3.4 (see page 190 ff.] to the consolidated financial statements.

supplemental disclosures relating to recognized expenditure and paid out remuneration
in the fiscal year 2015, expenditure in the aggregate amount of eur 8,374,578 (previous year:
eur 8,189,727) was recognized for the members of the executive board. besides expenditure for fixed
and variable remuneration, this amount also comprises non-cash benefits, pension subsidies,
additions to pension provisions (service and interest cost) as well as changes in the value of the
entitlements to share-based remuneration that were recognized as interest expense. in the fiscal year
2015, remuneration components totaling eur 9,257,826 (previous year: eur 7,992,205) were paid
out. apart from non-performance-related remuneration components, the amounts paid out also
include disbursements of variable remuneration for the previous year: as well as amounts disbursed
under multi-year variable remuneration components during the year under review.


(eur)                                                                                                      recognized expenditure                               paid out remuneration
jürg oleas                                                                                                                 3,212,912                                          4,409,717
 previous year                                                                                                             3,424,448                                          3,115,316
dr. helmut schmale                                                                                                         1,795,339                                          2,370,586
 previous year                                                                                                             1,884,471                                          1,783,620
niels graugaard 1                                                                                                                 –307                                          172,434
 previous year                                                                                                                  –3,440                                        1,241,371
dr. stephan petri                                                                                                          1,496,279                                          1,204,714
  previous year                                                                                                            1,485,425                                            971,456
markus hüllmann 2                                                                                                          1,870,355                                          1,100,375
 previous year                                                                                                             1,398,823                                            880,442
total                                                                                                                      8,374,578                                          9,257,826
 previous year                                                                                                             8,189,727                                          7,992,205

1) termination of service agreement in april 2013
2) due to his participation in the gea performance share plan 2012 during the period prior to his appointment as a member of the executive board, markus hüllmann received an additional
   amount of eur 84,288 in the fiscal year 2015.




                                                                          gea annual report 2015                                                                                            81

                                                combined group management report / remuneration report




     executive board remuneration in accordance with the gcgc model tables
     model table 1 referring to section 4.2.5 para. 3 (1st bullet point) gcgc “value of the benefits granted
     for the year under review”)

                                                                                              jürg oleas                                               dr. helmut schmale
                                                                                 chairman of the executive board                                      chief financial officer
     benefits granted
                                                                                                              min.           max.                                            min.           max.
                                                                              2014            2015          (2015)        (2015) 2           2014            2015          (2015)        (2015) 2
     fixed remuneration                                                 1,250,000 1,250,000 1,250,000 1,250,000                          675,000        693,750         693,750         693,750
     fringe benefits                                                        24,244         24,092          24,092          24,092         44,978          44,052          44,052         44,052
     pension subsidies                                                             0               0              0               0         6,747           6,788          6,788              6,788
     total non-performance-related components                          1,274,244 1,274,092 1,274,092 1,274,092                           726,725        744,590         744,590         744,590
     one-year variable remuneration                                       500,000         500,000                 0 1,000,000            270,000        277,500                  0      555,000
      individual component                                                500,000         500,000                 0 1,000,000            270,000        277,500                  0      555,000
     multi-year variable remuneration                                     715,275         679,700                 0 2,000,000            386,249        374,538                  0 1,110,000
      multi-year component                                                500,000         500,000                 0 1,250,000            270,000        277,500                  0      693,750
      long-term share price component
      (tranche 2014) 1                                                    215,275                  0              0               0      116,249                 0               0               0
      long-term share price component
      (tranche 2015) 1                                                             0      179,700                 0      750,000                  0       97,038                 0      416,250
     total performance-related components                              1,215,275 1,179,700                        0 3,000,000            656,249        652,038                  0 1,665,000
     service cost                                                         363,741         451,059        451,059         451,059         166,152        208,255         208,255         208,255
     total remuneration (gcgc)                                         2,853,260 2,904,851 1,725,151 4,725,151 1,549,126 1,604,883                                      952,845 2,617,845

     1) the bonus attributable to the long-term share price component is based on the fair value of the entitlement at grant date. grant date for 2014 tranche was 01/01/2014, for the 2015
        tranche 01/01/2015.
     2) not taking into account the possibility of granting a special discretionary bonus.




                                                                                          markus hüllmann                                                dr. stephan petri
                                                                                  member of the executive board                                 member of the executive board
     benefits granted
                                                                                                              min.           max.                                            min.          max.
                                                                              2014            2015          (2015)         (2015)2           2014            2015          (2015)        (2015)2
     fixed remuneration                                                   550,000         550,000        550,000         550,000         550,000        561,667         561,667         561,667
     fringe benefits                                                        35,286         23,255          23,255          23,255         21,168          26,173          26,173         26,173
     pension subsidies                                                             0               0              0               0         6,747           6,788          6,788              6,788
     total non-performance-related components                             585,286         573,255        573,255         573,255         577,915        594,628         594,628         594,628
     one-year variable remuneration                                       220,000         220,000                 0      440,000         220,000        224,667                  0      449,334
      individual component                                                220,000         220,000                 0      440,000         220,000        224,667                  0      449,334
     multi-year variable remuneration                                     314,721         299,068                 0      880,000         314,721        303,735                  0      898,667
      multi-year component                                                220,000         220,000                 0      550,000         220,000        224,667                  0      561,667
      long-term share price component
      (tranche 2014) 1                                                      94,721                 0              0               0       94,721                 0               0               0
      long-term share price component
      (tranche 2015) 1                                                             0       79,068                 0      330,000                  0       79,068                 0      337,000
     total performance-related components                                 534,721         519,068                 0 1,320,000            534,721        528,402                  0 1,348,001
     service cost                                                           94,387        651,870        651,870         651,870         178,410        237,355         237,355         237,355
     total remuneration (gcgc)                                         1,214,394 1,744,193 1,225,125 2,545,125 1,291,046 1,360,385                                      831,983 2,179,984

     1) the bonus attributable to the long-term share price component is based on the fair value of the entitlement at grant date. grant date for 2014 tranche was 01/01/2014, for the 2015
        tranche 01/01/2015.
     2) not taking into account the possibility of granting a special discretionary bonus.




82                                                                              gea annual report 2015

                                   combined group management report / remuneration report




model table 2 referring to section 4.2.5 para. 3 (2nd bullet point) gcgc “allocation for the year under
review”

                                                             jürg oleas                             dr. helmut schmale
                                                   chairman of the executive board                 chief financial officer
allocation

                                                             2014                      2015             2014                     2015
fixed remuneration                                      1,250,000               1,250,000            675,000                   693,750
fringe benefits                                            24,244                     24,092          44,978                    44,052
pension subsidies                                                0                        0             6,747                    6,788
total non-performance-related components                1,274,244              1,274,092             726,725                   744,590
one-year variable remuneration                            648,500                   530,000          350,190                   294,150
 individual component                                     648,500                    530,000         350,190                   294,150
multi-year variable remuneration                        1,496,160              2,534,125             870,643                 1,310,133
 multi-year component                                     549,500                    596,500         296,730                   331,057
 long-term share price component
 (tranche 2012)                                                  0                   342,100                0                  181,313
 phantom shares (tranche 2010)                            946,660                         0          573,913                        0
 phantom shares (tranche 2011)                                   0              1,595,525                    0                 797,763
total performance-related components                    2,144,660              3,064,125           1,220,833                 1,604,283
service cost                                              363,741                    451,059         166,152                   208,255
total remuneration (gcgc)                               3,782,645              4,789,277           2,113,710                 2,557,128




                                                          markus hüllmann                            dr. stephan petri
                                                    member of the executive board              member of the executive board
allocation

                                                             2014                       2015            2014                     2015
fixed remuneration                                        550,000                    550,000         550,000                   561,667
fringe benefits                                            35,286                     23,255          21,168                    26,173
pension subsidies                                                0                         0            6,747                    6,788
total non-performance-related components                  585,286                    573,255         577,915                   594,628
one-year variable remuneration                            285,340                    233,200         280,500                   238,147
 individual component                                     285,340                    233,200         280,500                   238,147
multi-year variable remuneration                          241,780                    262,460         241,780                   355,833
 multi-year component                                     241,780                    262,460         241,780                   268,027
 long-term share price component
 (tranche 2012)                                                  0                         0                 0                  87,806
 phantom shares (tranche 2010)                                   0                         0                 0                      0
 phantom shares (tranche 2011)                                   0                         0                 0                      0
total performance-related components                      527,120                    495,660         522,280                   593,980
service cost                                               94,387                    651,870         178,410                   237,355
total remuneration (gcgc)                               1,206,793               1,720,785          1,278,605                 1,425,962




                                                   gea annual report 2015                                                                83

                                               combined group management report / remuneration report




                                                                                                                                                     niels graugaard
                                                                                                                                            member of the executive board
     allocation
                                                                                                                                                    until 04/18/2013
                                                                                                                                                        2014                          2015
     fixed remuneration                                                                                                                                      0                              0
     fringe benefits                                                                                                                                         0                              0
     pension subsidies                                                                                                                                       0                              0
     total non-performance-related components                                                                                                                0                              0
     one-year variable remuneration                                                                                                                          0                              0
      individual component                                                                                                                                   0                              0
     multi-year variable remuneration                                                                                                            1,241,371                        172,434
      multi-year component                                                                                                                                   0                              0
      long-term share price component
      (tranche 2012)                                                                                                                                         0                    172,434
      phantom shares (tranche 2010)                                                                                                                 540,385                                 0
      phantom shares (tranche 2011) *                                                                                                               700,986                                 0
     total performance-related components                                                                                                        1,241,371                        172,434
     service cost                                                                                                                                            0                              0
     total remuneration (gcgc)                                                                                                                   1,241,371                        172,434

     *) due to the service agreement concluded with niels graugaard being terminated in april 2013, the holding period for phantom shares under the 2011 long-term bonus decreased to one
        year as of termination date in accordance with the contractual provisions. for this reason, the bonus was paid out as early as 2014.




     remuneration of former executive board members and their surviving dependents
     in the fiscal year 2015, former members of the executive board and their surviving dependents
     received remunerations in the amount of eur 4,992 thousand (previous year: eur 5,168 thousand)
     from gea group. as of december 31, 2015, gea group had set up pension provisions totaling
     eur 62,458 thousand (previous year: eur 64,494 thousand) for former executive board members
     and their surviving dependents.

     remuneration of the supervisory board members
     the remuneration of the supervisory board members comprises solely a fixed compensation. it does
     not include any performance-related component.

     during the year under review, the expenses incurred for the supervisory board amounted to eur 1,168
     thousand (previous year: eur 1,159 thousand). under s. 15 para. 1 of the articles of association, each
     member of the supervisory board receives a fixed annual fee of eur 50 thousand payable after the end
     of each fiscal year, in addition to the reimbursement of their expenses. the chairman of the supervisory
     board receives two and a half times, his deputy one and a half times this amount. in accordance with s.
     15 para. 2 of the articles of association, members of the presiding committee and the audit committee
     each receive an additional eur 35 thousand. the chairman of each of these committees receives twice
     this amount. no separate remuneration is paid to members of the mediation committee and the
     nomination committee. members who join or leave the supervisory board or its committees during
     the year only receive a pro rata amount for the period of their membership. under s. 15 para. 3 of the
     articles of association, the supervisory board members also receive an attendance fee of eur 1 thousand
     for each meeting of the supervisory board, the presiding committee and the audit committee that they
     have attended after the end of the year under review. in the fiscal year 2015, the supervisory board held
     seven meetings, the presiding committee met on six and the audit committee was convened on five
     occasions.




84                                                                            gea annual report 2015

                                           combined group management report / remuneration report




the following table shows the individual remuneration and its respective components for members
of the supervisory board, the presiding committee and the audit committee for 2015 compared with
the previous year:

                                                                             supervisory             presiding
                                                                                  board             commitee              audit commitee               attendance
(in eur)                                                                   remuneration          remuneration               remuneration                      fees                   total
dr. heraeus                                                                      125,000                70,000                       35,000                 17,000                 247,000
 previous year                                                                   125,000                70,000                       35,000                 14,000                 244,000
siegers *                                                                          75,000               35,000                              –                 9,000                119,000
 previous year                                                                     75,000               35,000                              –               11,000                 121,000
bastaki                                                                            50,000                       –                           –                 7,000                 57,000
 previous year                                                                     50,000                       –                           –                 6,000                 56,000
prof. dr. bauer                                                                    50,000                       –                           –                 6,000                 56,000
 previous year                                                                     50,000                       –                           –                 7,000                 57,000
eberlein                                                                           50,000                       –                    70,000                 12,000                 132,000
 previous year                                                                     50,000                       –                    70,000                 12,000                 132,000
gröbel *                                                                           50,000               35,000                              –               13,000                  98,000
 previous year                                                                     50,000               35,000                              –               11,000                  96,000
hunger * (until october 31, 2014)                                                          –                    –                           –                       –                    –
 previous year                                                                     41,467                       –                    29,167                 11,000                  81,834
kämpfert                                                                           50,000                       –                           –                 6,000                 56,000
 previous year                                                                     50,000                       –                           –                 6,000                 56,000
kerkemeier *                                                                       50,000                       –                           –                 6,000                 56,000
 previous year                                                                     50,000                       –                           –                 7,000                 57,000
krönchen * (since november 5, 2014)                                                50,000                       –                    35,000                 12,000                  97,000
 previous year                                                                       7,808                      –                           –                 1,000                  8,808
löw *                                                                              50,000                       –                    35,000                 12,000                  97,000
 previous year                                                                     50,000                       –                    35,000                 13,000                  98,000
dr. perlet                                                                         50,000               35,000                              –               11,000                  96,000
 previous year                                                                     50,000               35,000                              –               11,000                  96,000
spence                                                                             50,000                       –                           –                 7,000                 57,000
 previous year                                                                     50,000                       –                           –                 5,000                 55,000
total                                                                            700,000               175,000                     175,000                 118,000             1,168,000
 previous year                                                                   699,475               175,000                     169,167                 115,000             1,158,642

*) the employee representatives from the works council and the union remit their respective remuneration to the hans böckler foundation in accordance the applicable guidelines.




                                                                           gea annual report 2015                                                                                            85

                        combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




     report on risks and opportunities
     risk and opportunity management targets
     gea’s ability to leverage its growth and earnings potential depends on it using the opportunities that
     arise, although this in turn is associated as a matter of principle with business risks. taking calculated
     risks is therefore part of gea’s corporate strategy. to meet the objective of sustainably increasing
     enterprise value, it is necessary, as far as possible, to enter into only those risks that are calculable and
     matched by greater opportunities. this requires active risk and opportunity management, which avoids
     inappropriate risks, monitors and manages risks entered into, and ensures that opportunities are
     identified and utilized in good time.

     gea’s strategic and medium-term planning are key components of the way in which it manages
     opportunities and risks. these processes are used to prepare decisions on core technologies and
     markets, along with the corresponding allocation of resources. the objective is to ensure stability by
     diversifying and by concentrating on markets of the future. at the same time, developments that may
     jeopardize gea’s continuing existence can be identified at an early stage.

     opportunities and risks arising from significant operating decisions – for example whether to take
     on orders or to implement capital expenditure projects – are assessed and hence actively managed by
     the relevant departments and decision-makers at all group levels in a decision-making process that
     takes materiality criteria into account.

     overall assessment of the risk position and changes compared with
     the previous year
     the identified risks from operating activities and the negative impact on earnings that could result
     have changed only immaterially as against the previous year. as in previous years, the structure of
     gea with its regional and industry diversification offers protection to a large extent against
     individual risks clustering into a single risk that could threaten the group’s continued existence as a
     going concern. in addition, gea group is not dependent on individual business partners, be they
     either suppliers or customers.

     risks in connection with discontinued operations were reduced thanks to further progress in
     completing the lentjes projects. the sale of the gea heat exchangers segment resulted in risks in the
     form of financial obligations towards the purchaser.

     overall, no risks to gea or gea group aktiengesellschaft were identified that, alone or in
     combination with other risks, could endanger the company’s continued existence as a going concern.




86                                              gea annual report 2015

                            combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




risk and opportunity management system

risk management system
all group companies are integrated into gea’s risk management system. quarterly risk reports and
size-related ad hoc risk reports aim to ensure that decision-makers at all levels are informed promptly
about material existing risks and potential risks affecting future development.

the fundamental principles and procedures underpinning an effective risk management system are
set out in risk guidelines that apply to the entire group. these guidelines also document mandatory
risk reporting and management requirements. compliance with these requirements is monitored
regularly by the internal audit function.

risk management instruments such as the risk assessment and advisory committees (raacs) are
supplemented by a reporting system encompassing evaluated risk reports, consolidated financial
projections, monthly consolidated financial statements, and regular meetings of the global
leadership team (consisting of members of the executive board and heads of the business areas, the
regions, and the global corporate center) enable the various risks to be identified and analyzed.



risk management organization


                                                supervisory        audit committee
                                                   board
                                                                                                               internal
                                                                                                                audit
             risk board                                  executive board



                                                                glt *




                                                                                          global     shared
                             business area                    business area
                                                                                         corporate   service
                              equipment                         solutions
                                                                                          center     center



                                             regions & country organizations/companies



*) global leadership team




gea’s risk management system is based on the management hierarchy. risks are reported to the next
highest management level using predefined thresholds.

the specific requirements of the group’s project business are addressed by risk boards at business
area and group management level. before a binding quotation is submitted or an agreement signed,
the commercial and contractual terms of potential orders are examined in detail by specialists from
various departments so that risks that cannot be controlled are avoided. the risk management system




                                                    gea annual report 2015                                                87

                       combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




     therefore already comes into play before risks arise, in the form of a critical examination of the
     opportunity and risk profile of quotations. no agreement may be signed if the profile is
     inappropriate.

     the risk management system not only serves the statutory purpose of identifying existential risks as
     early as possible, it also covers all risks that might have a material impact on the financial position
     and results of operations of a business area or of the group as a whole.

     additional modules were added to gea group’s risk management system in order to systematically
     capture risks and opportunities not covered by the existing systems; these make it possible to assess
     risk on a holistic basis.

     information is gathered and consolidated across all organizational units via the iterative processes of
     a group-wide “risk & chance scorecard”. first introduced in 2014, the scorecard will be repeated once
     the new organization has been fully implemented. to identify risks that could endanger the
     continued existence of gea as a going concern, all issues are assessed for their financial materiality
     (on a gross basis, i.e. excluding any risk-mitigating measures) and their probability of occurrence. in
     addition, the timing (less than or more than one year) of each risk is individually assessed.

     the following criteria are used to determine materiality:


     opportunities and risks
                                                                     probability

                                            < 40%                    40 - 60%                          > 60%
                          insignificant       l                           l                               m
        low                 moderate          l                          m                                h
        middle
        high             considerable         m                          h                                h




     moderate                                               impact on financial and earnings position between eur 2.5 - 10 million
     considerable                                                       impact on financial and earnings position > eur 10 million


     this makes it possible to classify both risks and opportunities in accordance with their impact on
     gea. issues with short-term relevance that have a high (“h”) materiality and probability rating are
     initially classified as a significant risk or significant opportunity.

     in addition, the gea demand index (gdi) is used to collate estimates by gea group’s market experts
     of expected short- to medium-term market developments. the gdi makes it possible to obtain an
     early indication of positive or negative market developments in the industries and regions that are
     relevant for gea.

     the data gathered using the risk & chance scorecard and the gdi is processed along with other
     internal and external information in a scenario and sensitivity analysis, which simulates the potential
     impact on the group’s liquidity (see page 94).

     adequate provisions have been recognized for all identifiable risks arising from the group’s operating
     activities provided that the recognition criteria for liabilities have been met. the following section




88                                            gea annual report 2015

                  combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




provides details of existing risks. risks that are not yet known or currently regarded as insignificant
may also have an adverse effect on business activities.

internal control system
gea’s internal control system (ics) is based on the coso framework and comprises the risk
management system (rms) as well as other principles, measures, and rules (other components of the
ics). while the rms aims at identifying and classifying risks, the components comprising the rest of
the ics serve primarily to prevent or mitigate risk using control measures. the internal audit
function is another component of the ics.

the rms comprises principles, measures, and rules relating to the early risk recognition system in
accordance with section 91(2) of the aktiengesetz (aktg – german stock corporation act), as well as
those relating to other components of the risk management system. in the other components of the
ics, a distinction is made between principles, measures, and rules that are related or unrelated to
financial reporting.

gea’s ics relevant for financial reporting encompasses all principles, measures, and rules that ensure
the proper approval and recording of business transactions for monthly, quarterly, and annual
financial statements. the goal of the implemented ics is to ensure reliable financial reporting,
compliance with the relevant laws and standards, and the cost-effectiveness of business workflows.

in addition to gea group aktiengesellschaft, all group companies are integrated into the ics.

the following key principles of gea’s ics must be applied in all business functions: clearly defined
areas of responsibility, the separation of functions in all areas of activity, dual signature policies,
compliance with guidelines, instructions, and procedural requirements (manuals), the obligation to
obtain comparative offers before awarding contracts, protection of data from unauthorized access,
and the holding of training sessions to ensure uniform procedures within the group.

key measures and rules that are relevant for financial reporting and are designed to ensure uniform
accounting at all subsidiaries are: accounting and account allocation manuals, a uniform chart of
accounts, consolidation and calculation manuals, the approval of entries using the dual control
principle, and the fact that certain entries can only be made by selected persons. to prevent errors,
standardized it systems are used in gea’s accounting, financial control, and finance functions in all
group companies. all guidelines and it systems are updated on a continuous basis to reflect legal and
business requirements.

compliance with the principles, measures, and rules set out in the ics as described above is
monitored systematically; this takes the form of regular reviews by gea’s internal audit function,
which reports directly to the executive board and regularly submits reports to the audit committee.
the results enable the elimination of defects identified at the companies reviewed and the ongoing
enhancement of the ics in the group.

overall, the ics aims to ensure the early identification, assessment, and management of those risks
and opportunities that could materially influence the company’s ability to achieve its strategic,
operating, financial, and compliance-related objectives.




                                         gea annual report 2015                                           89

                       combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




     legal risks
     legal risks are not quantified in detail since disclosing the specific probability of occurrence could
     have a material effect on the group’s position in current litigation or other legal disputes.

     dörries scharmann ag insolvency proceedings
     an action brought by the insolvency administrator of dörries scharmann ag against gea group
     aktiengesellschaft is pending at the düsseldorf regional court. the former metallgesellschaft ag,
     the legal predecessor to gea group aktiengesellschaft, held an interest in schiess ag, which later
     became dörries scharmann ag. on the basis of that interest, the insolvency administrator is
     asserting various claims under company law, in particular for equity substitution, which amount to
     approximately eur 18 million plus possible interest. gea group aktiengesellschaft considers the
     asserted claims to be unfounded and will continue to defend itself against all such demands.

     general
     further claims or official investigations have been or may be instituted against gea companies as a
     result of earlier business disposals and operating activities.

     adequate provisions have been recognized for all risks arising from both the legal disputes described
     above and other legal disputes being pursued by gea in the course of its ordinary operating
     activities. however, the outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted with any degree of
     certainty. it is therefore possible that the conclusion of the proceedings may result in income or
     expenses if the amounts that have been set aside for them are higher or lower than required.

     performance risks
     the performance risks presented below can take a wide variety of forms. the elements of the gea
     risk management system are designed to help identify emerging risks before they materialize, so that
     appropriate measures can be implemented on a case-by-case basis to avoid negative effects on the
     group’s financial position and results of operations. as a rule, potential business performance risks
     are minimized by avoiding significant dependencies and ensuring a balanced mix of fixed and
     flexible capacities.

     gea’s sales markets have a diverse product and customer structure. this diversification moderates
     the impact on total demand of fluctuations in demand in specific submarkets. however, the food
     industry is the main focus of the business. a significant decline in demand for food and beverages
     would have a material impact on gea’s financial position and results of operations. gea considers
     the probability of a global decline in demand to be low. this risk is rated as medium overall.

     a significant proportion of gea’s business consists of projects that depend on the financing available
     to gea’s customers. a general decline in demand, shifts in currency parities, or a credit squeeze could
     make it more difficult to implement such projects. for the same reason, existing orders could be
     deferred or even canceled. if such risks were to occur on a global level, they would have a material




90                                            gea annual report 2015

                  combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




impact on gea’s financial position and results of operations. the probability of such risks occurring
globally is considered to be low. this risk is classified as medium overall due to gea’s diversified
positioning in particular.

country-specific conflict situations that could give rise to risks for the group are continually observed
as part of risk management. however, the potential risks arising from such situations are difficult to
quantify. however, no material impact on the group’s results of operations is anticipated. this risk is
rated as medium overall.

on the sales side, future prices will depend to a considerable extent on general economic trends. any
fall in capacity utilization in the industry could also have a significant negative impact on price levels
and therefore on the financial position and results of operations of gea. thanks to the group’s
regional and industrial diversification, the probability of such a risk is considered to be low. this
issue is rated as a medium risk overall.

gea processes a number of materials, such as stainless steel, especially as part of processed products.
purchase prices for these metals may fluctuate significantly depending on market conditions. long-
term supply agreements are entered into with selected suppliers in order to lock in the procurement
prices used as the basis for costing orders. however, the potential risks arising from such situations
are difficult to quantify. with respect to procurement, current expectations are that prices for key
materials will not increase. the risk is rated as medium overall.

long-term engineering orders are a significant element of gea’s business. some of these contracts
entail particular risks, as they involve assuming a significant portion of the risk associated with the
project’s completion. in addition, they may provide for warranty obligations that remain in force for
several years after the project’s acceptance. technical problems, quality problems at subcontractors,
and missed deadlines may lead to cost overruns. there is therefore an extensive risk management
system in place at group management and business area level to closely monitor order-related risks.
this comes into play before binding quotations are submitted. adequate provisions have been
recognized for all foreseeable risks in this area. this could give rise to both risks and opportunities in
relation to the financial position and results of operations. as a whole, these issues are rated as a
medium risk.

gea’s business processes are highly dependent on information technology. the failure or malfunction of
critical systems could result in risks relating to confidentiality, availability, and integrity, and key
business processes could be compromised. gea protects its it systems against unauthorized access
to the extent that this is economically feasible. the relevant security systems are updated on an
ongoing basis. this issue is classified as a medium risk overall.

furthermore, macroeconomic trends are deemed to pose a risk to the company. if a downturn in the
economy leads to a reduction in order intake to below the level of the previous fiscal year, this could
have a negative impact on earnings due to capacity underutilization and capacity adjustment
measures. thanks to the group’s regional and industry diversification, and the fact that it is




                                          gea annual report 2015                                             91

                        combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




     structured for flexibility, the probability of this significant risk occurring is considered to be low. this
     issue is classified as a medium risk overall.

     as contractually agreed, defined risks relating to selected orders remained with the group following
     the sale of the former lentjes division. the remaining risks are rated as low overall.

     the sale of the gea heat exchangers segment resulted in risks in the form of financial obligations
     towards the purchaser. these relate to contractual warranties and indemnifications, as well as risk
     sharing for major projects. this issue is assessed as a medium risk overall, with a low probability of
     occurrence.

     dedicated and qualified employees are a critical success factor for gea. gea has various staff policy
     measures in place to counter the risk that it will be unable to fill vacant positions adequately or that it
     will lose skilled employees. the measures aim to position gea as an attractive employer and foster
     employees’ long-term loyalty to the group (see page 54 f.). the probability of this significant risk
     occurring is considered to be low. this issue is rated as a medium risk overall.

     acquisition and integration risks
     acquisitions and internal company reorganizations entail risks resulting from the integration of
     employees, processes, technologies, and products. it is possible, therefore, that the aims of the
     measures in question will not be achieved at all or within the timeframe envisaged. moreover, such
     transactions may give rise to substantial administrative and other expenses. portfolio measures may
     also result in the need for additional finance and may impact negatively on financing requirements
     and the financing structure. these risks are countered by a structured integration concept and close
     supervision by internal experts, as well as specific training measures. this issue is rated as a medium
     risk overall.

     environmental risk
     several properties in our portfolio entail risks relating to historic environmental contamination and
     mining damage, primarily as a result of earlier business activities. these risks are countered through
     appropriate measures and supervision by internal and external specialists. adequate provisions were
     recognized for the measures in 2015. this could give rise to both risks and opportunities in relation to
     the financial position and results of operations. their probability is regarded as medium and their
     materiality as moderate.

     financial risks

     principles of financial risk management
     the executive board has put in place an effective set of guidelines to monitor and thus largely limit
     or hedge financial risks throughout the group. the objectives with regard to protecting assets,
     eliminating gaps in security, and improving efficiency in identifying and analyzing risks are clearly
     defined, as well as the relevant organizational structures, powers, and responsibilities. the guidelines
     are based on the principles of system security, the separation of functions, transparency, and
     immediate documentation.

     gea is exposed to currency, interest rate, commodity price, credit, and liquidity risk in the course of
     its ordinary activities because it operates worldwide. financial risk management aims to reduce this




92                                             gea annual report 2015

                  combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




risks through the appropriate use of derivative and non-derivative hedging instruments. the group’s
financial risks are quantified in section 3 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements (see
pages 152 ff.).

based on a gross assessment, the financial risks described below are considered in principle to be
both considerable and probable for gea. these risks are therefore rated as high overall.

currency risk
because gea operates internationally, its cash flows are denominated not only in euros, but also in a
number of other currencies, particularly u.s. dollars. hedging the resulting currency risk is a key
element of risk management.

the uniform group guidelines for central currency management used within gea require all group
companies to hedge foreign currency items as they arise in order to fix prices on the basis of hedging
rates. currency risks are hedged for recognized hedged items, unrecognized firm commitments, and
highly probable forecast transactions. the hedging periods are determined by the maturity of the
hedged items and are usually up to 12 months, but in exceptional cases may exceed that period
significantly. nevertheless, changes in exchange rates may affect sales opportunities outside the
eurozone.

affiliated group companies based in the eurozone are obliged to tender to gea’s central treasury and
corporate finance unit all outstanding exposures relating to transactions in goods and services in
major transaction currencies. most of these exposures are passed on directly to banks at matching
maturities, depending on the hedging objective of the derivatives and the related accounting
treatment. they may also be hedged as part of a portfolio. the hedging of financial transactions and
transactions conducted by subsidiaries outside the eurozone is also closely coordinated with the
central treasury and corporate finance unit.

interest rate risk
because gea operates worldwide, liquidity is raised and invested in the international money and
capital markets in different currencies (but mainly in euros) and at different maturities. the resulting
financial liabilities and investments are exposed to interest rate risk, which must be assessed and
managed by central interest rate management. derivative financial instruments may be used on a
case-by-case basis to hedge interest rate risk and reduce the interest rate volatility and financing costs
of the hedged items. only the central treasury and corporate finance unit is permitted to enter into
such interest rate hedges.

credit risk
financial instruments are exposed to credit risk in that the other party to the contract may fail to
fulfill its obligations. the counterparty limit system used by gea’s central treasury and corporate
finance unit aims to continuously assess and manage counterparty default risk. a maximum risk
limit has been defined for each counterparty, which in most cases is derived from the ratings from
recognized credit rating agencies and credit default swaps (cdss). appropriate action is taken if the
individual limit is exceeded.




                                          gea annual report 2015                                             93

                       combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




     the financial standing of potential customers is ascertained via an internal risk board procedure
     before orders are accepted. active receivables management, including nonrecourse factoring,
     nonrecourse financing, and credit insurance, is also performed. in the case of export transactions,
     confirmed and unconfirmed letters of credit are used alongside sureties, guarantees, and cover notes,
     including from export credit agencies such as euler hermes. an addition to local monitoring by the
     subsidiary, gea oversees the main credit risks at group management level so that any accumulation
     of risk can be better managed.

     since trade receivables are usually due from a large number of customers in different sectors and
     regions, there is no concentration of risk. valuation allowances take account of specific credit risks.

     so as to reduce the credit risk involved, derivative financial instruments are only entered into with
     reputable financial institutions whose creditworthiness has been classified as reliable and is
     continuously monitored under the counterparty limit system described above.

     the maximum exposure for the financial assets is limited to their carrying amount.

     liquidity risk
     gea is exposed to liquidity risk in that it may be unable to meet payment obligations because it has
     insufficient cash funds at its disposal. the central treasury and corporate finance unit is responsible
     for managing this risk. cash funds are arranged and credit lines managed on the basis of a multi-year
     financial plan and a rolling month-by-month cash forecast. the funds are then made available to the
     companies by group management. cash pools have been established in a growing number of
     countries in order to optimize the use of cash funds and borrowing within gea. to mitigate liquidity
     risk, gea will continue to use various financing instruments in the future so as to diversify its
     sources of funding and stagger maturities.

     the impact of potential risk scenarios on changes in liquidity is also simulated. all internal risk
     management information and internal and external information on potential market and other
     external risks is taken into account. on the basis of this, the executive board and supervisory board
     have agreed strict rules regarding the level of cash and long-term credit lines to be held to cover
     potential liquidity risk.

     tax risks
     the applicable national tax legislation may affect the use of loss carryforwards and thus the
     recoverability of the deferred taxes recognized in the consolidated financial statements and current
     taxation. furthermore, future changes to the ownership structure could significantly reduce or even
     render impossible the use of german loss carryforwards (section 8c of the körperschaftsteuergesetz
     (kstg – german corporate income tax act)). the ability to use u.s. loss carryforwards could also be
     restricted in the case of certain changes to the ownership structure of gea group aktiengesellschaft
     under irc section 382 (limitation on net operating loss carryforwards following an ownership change).




94                                            gea annual report 2015

                  combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




moreover, in germany and abroad, there is considerable uncertainty regarding future changes to, and
the application of, tax legislation as a result of tighter public sector finances, the resulting pressure
for reform, and tangibly greater scrutiny by the tax authorities.

the tax risks presented could have a material effect on gea’s financial position and results of
operations. the occurrence of material negative effects is considered to be relatively unlikely.

opportunities

overall assessment of opportunities and changes compared
with the previous year
gea’s end markets offer a variety of opportunities for positive business performance over the long
term. a key task of the opportunity and risk management system is to systematically evaluate both
internal and external information in order to identify opportunities at an early stage and appropriately
assess the potential they offer (see page 87 f.). specific measures are then developed to enable us to
convert opportunities into actual economic success.

the identified opportunities from operating activities and the additional positive impact on earnings
that could result have not changed significantly as against the previous year.

planning of the group’s economic development is based on certain assumptions regarding the
development of the performance parameters described below. if these parameters develop more
positively than expected overall, this could have a corresponding effect on gea’s financial position
and results of operations.

performance opportunities
gea is entering fiscal year 2016 with an unchanged high order backlog. further growth is expected in
the more rapidly expanding asian markets in the medium term. gea will further expand its presence
in these regions and thus participate in the growth of these markets.

if the expected moderate growth in the global economy materializes, gea’s continued focus on the
food end market will allow it benefit more than average, especially in growth markets.

in the area of food process technology, gea’s growth will be driven not only by an increase in the
standard of living and the trend toward high-quality foods, but also by the expected rise in
production and quality standards as well as innovative process improvements and new product
developments.

gea’s new structure has been in place since june 8, 2015. the group now boasts much flatter
hierarchies and is also much closer to its local customers thanks to the uniformity of its national
organizations. this more prominent positioning of the portfolio as a whole coupled with intensified
service business will promote additional profitable growth while nurturing customer loyalty. this
will continue to further strengthen and expand the sustainable competitiveness of gea until 2020
and beyond. the savings of at least eur 125 million expected to be made from the “fit for 2020”
program as from 2017 do not, however, take into account the potential for generating greater revenue
through the new, much more uniform lines of contact with our customers. in addition, the new
structure is likely to furnish much greater cross-selling opportunities as a basis for increasing sales
among existing customers while tapping into new customer groups.




                                          gea annual report 2015                                            95

                       combined group management report / report on risks and opportunities




     the former, relatively decentralized group structure featuring segmentation by technology meant
     that procurement was also organized on a highly individual basis. the new structure, in which the
     development and manufacturing of products and the provision of process solutions have been
     bundled in two new business areas, will give rise to optimization potential in the future. the
     company sees opportunities especially in the harmonization of material categories, the clustering of
     suppliers, and through the expansion of centrally coordinated purchasing processes.

     gea sees further potential in the structure of its present global production network. here too, the
     previous decentralized approach served to optimize production capacities in the individual segments.
     thanks to the new group structure, it will now be possible to centralize the management and control
     of capital expenditure to a greater degree than before, and this could give rise to additional,
     significant savings.

     gea’s in-depth understanding of its customers’ production processes is a cornerstone of its success.
     increasing scarcity of resources means that ever more efficient use needs to be made of raw materials
     and energy. in addition, end consumers’ rising demands require the implementation of higher quality
     standards in production processes. growing awareness of the environment means we must meet
     more stringent standards on co2 emissions, for example. this creates additional opportunities for
     gea by focusing on research and development activities on environmentally friendly technologies
     and production processes and thus offer specialist solutions.

     the acquisition in 2015 of comas (see page 37) saw gea enter the pastries market. the creation of an
     “application center bakery” in the new structure underscores the company’s increasing focus on this
     area of industry. further acquisitions (see page 63) could see gea expand its competence portfolio, as
     in this case, and thus achieve market leadership in new fields of activity. as the group’s acquisition
     strategy is clearly focused on sophisticated process technology for the food industry, these
     acquisitions may well bring about a further increase in group profitability.

     gea considers the probability of the performance opportunities exceeding the planning assumptions
     and therefore having a material positive impact on net assets, financial position, and results of
     operations to be medium overall.




96                                           gea annual report 2015

                  combined group management report / report on expected developments




report on expected developments
gea’s report on expected developments takes into account relevant facts and events that were
known at the date of preparation of these consolidated financial statements and that could influence
the future development of its business.

economic environment in 2016

global economy
as described in the section on the macroeconomic environment in the report on the economic
position (see page 35 f.), gea, as a global engineering company, considers global growth in gross
domestic product (gdp) and the corresponding imf forecasts to be key benchmarks for its own
performance.

in the january 2016 update to its world economic outlook, the imf once again downscaled its forecast
for global economic growth in 2016 against its october 2015 estimates. according to the forecast, the
global economy is set to grow by 3.4 percent in 2016. in the following year, the global economy is again
expected to pick up slightly, achieving a growth rate of 3.6 percent. the forecast growth rates for 2016
and 2017 are both 0.2 percentage points below the figures published last october.
according to the imf experts, the biggest risks are currently slowing growth in china, tighter us
monetary policies coupled with a strong dollar, and the possible aggravation of current geopolitical
tensions.

growth in the industrialized nations
the imf is predicting stable growth of 2.1 percent for the industrialized nations in 2016 and 2017. as
regards both germany and the eurozone economy as a whole, the imf is looking at growth of 1.7
percent for this year and 2017.

since the original october forecast, the imf has reduced its estimates for the us economy by 0.2
percentage points twice. with the strength of the dollar posing a major challenge to the us economy,
the imf is now predicting annual growth of 2.6 percent for 2016 and 2017.

growth in the emerging markets
by predicting economic growth of 4.3 percent in 2016 and 4.7 percent in 2017 for the emerging
markets and the industrialized nations, the iwf has reduced its original october estimate by 0.2
percentage points on two occasions.

with regard to the chinese economy, the iwf is anticipating a decline in growth from 6.9 percent in
2015 to 6.3 percent in 2016 and down to 6.0 percent in 2017. this is in line with previous expectations.

as far as the russian economy goes, the imf is predicting negative growth of –1.0 percent in 2016 but
a recovery to 1.0 percent in 2017. thus, the imf has significantly adjusted its forecast for the russian
economy in 2016 (down 0.4 percentage points compared with the fall forecast). the forecast for the
russian economy in 2017 remained unchanged.




                                          gea annual report 2015                                           97

                       combined group management report / report on expected developments




     growth in the latin american countries is also expected to stall in 2016, the imf expecting these
     economies to contract to –0.3 percent, a further 1.1 percentage points down on the october 2015
     figure. even if economic growth in latin america recovers to 1.6 percent in 2017, the latest estimates
     are still well below those of october 2015.

     growth in the customer industries

     the following trends are expected for gea’s key applications (based on external studies):

     food
     the consumption of packaged food will continue to grow at a moderate rate driven by slight increases in
     consumption in the asia pacific region, as well as in the middle east and africa. it is also expected
     that the consumption of bakery goods will increase too.

     dairy farming
     milk prices are set to remain volatile in 2016 with no prospect of recovery until the middle of the
     year; as such, the financial situation of dairy farmers is unlikely to improve until that time, at the
     earliest. as a result, a significant increase in the investment appetite of the northern hemisphere
     markets (usa/eu), which are especially relevant to gea – is not expected to materialize before 2017.
     in the medium to long term, however, the situation in the global dairy market is expected to improve
     due to increases in the consumption of dairy products.

     dairy processing
     global milk consumption is set to increase slightly over the next few years, a trend driven by
     increasing demand for dairy products in europe and in north and south america. as before, growth
     will be strongest in the asia pacific region, albeit at a lower level than in the past. in global terms,
     especially the consumption of yogurt and fermented dairy products is set to increase.

     beverages
     global beverage consumption is set to grow faster over the next few years than in the previous three.
     the coming years are expected to see a moderate increase in the consumption of both alcoholic
     beverages and soft drinks. while growth in demand for soft drinks in asia is not expected to be quite
     as vibrant as it has been in recent years, demand in eastern europe in particular is expected to increase
     in the next few years. moreover, demand for juices and carbonated soft drinks – an important market
     for gea – is expected to increase more strongly in the future than in the last three years.

     pharma
     spending on medicinal products will continue to rise, with growth rates in this market increasing
     again as compared with the years 2012 to 2015. the main reason for the marked rise is increased drug
     spending in the so-called pharmerging markets (e.g. china, brazil, russia, turkey and india), as well
     as in germany, france, uk, italy and spain. all told, it can be assumed, therefore, that investment
     outlay in the pharma industry will continue to rise.




98                                            gea annual report 2015

                  combined group management report / report on expected developments




chemical
the manufacture of petrochemical products is set to increase further in the coming years, exceeding
the growth rates of the last three years and giving rise to the predicted further increase in investment
activity. the main driver of this upward trend has been increases in production in both china and the
gulf states.

economic environment for gea
gea’s planning for the current 2016 fiscal year assumes that demand in its sales markets will be
moderately higher than the levels seen in 2015.

the group’s enduring success is founded on a number of major global trends:

1. the continuous growth in the global population,
2. the growing middle class,
3. the growing demand for high-quality foods and beverages,
4. the increasing demand for production methods that are efficient and conserve valuable resources.

the united nations assumes that the world’s population, which currently stands at more than 7.3 billion
people, will rise over the coming years by around 80 million people per year (see world population
prospects: the 2015 revision; world urbanization prospects, 2014). the world’s population is set to
grow to 8 billion by 2023. this means that, in future, significantly more food will have to be produced
on more or less the same cultivation area. for this reason, the methods and production processes
used must become much more efficient – which is why innovative process technology is needed.

linked to this growth is an increasing degree of urbanization. the number of people living in towns
and cities rose from 746 million in 1950 to 3.9 billion in 2014. this means that more than half of the
world’s population now lives in urban areas. this figure is set to expand by a further 2.5 billion
people by 2050, particularly in asia and africa. in addition, more and more foods must be preserved
for longer and be easier to transport in order to secure the necessary supplies for metropolitan areas
and to maintain world trade. here, as well, only state-of-the-art technologies can provide the capacity
needed to cope with rising demand.

another factor is that, as the middle class grows, so will the number of people who will be able to
afford processed foods, beverages, and dairy products. this is equally true for pharmaceutical
products, which must meet the needs of an increasingly health-conscious population.
against the backdrop of the trends in the global economy and the food industry presented in this
chapter, and the impact of the various megatrends on its direct sales markets, gea is expecting
growing demand for high-quality foods and, linked to this, ongoing high levels of investment in the
food industry. additionally, gea is anticipating sustained customer interest in process optimization
for improving efficiency, productivity, energy usage, and plant availability, which its technologies are
able to provide.

with regard to commodity prices, the world bank (see commodity markets outlook, october 2015)
expects the prices of all industrial goods (energy, metals and minerals, as well as basic agricultural
products) to remain at their 2015 levels in 2016.

the company does not believe that customer project finance will be significantly affected by
uncertainty in the capital markets.




                                         gea annual report 2015                                            99

                        combined group management report / report on expected developments




      the proportion of gea’s revenue accounted for by the food industry in 2016 is expected to remain at
      its current high level. from a regional perspective, too, gea is not anticipating any significant change
      in the current breakdown of revenue in 2016 as against the past fiscal year.

      business outlook
      the forecast is made under the assumption that there there will be no further slowdown in global
      economic growth and no significant exchange rate fluctuations. acquisitions made in 2016 are not
      included in the calculation of the key performance indicators. the figures are also adjusted for non-
      recurring items. expected savings from group restructuring are already included in the forecast.

      revenue
      gea is aiming to generate moderate revenue growth in 2016. this forecast is largely due to the lower
      growth in capital goods that is expected in light of lower growth rates in the emerging markets.
      although the significant fall in oil prices will generate growth momentum – with the exception of the
      oil processing industry and in the oil producing countries – the necessary structural reforms in some
      countries and the ongoing high geopolitical risk are perceived as having a negative impact on global
      economic growth.

      earnings
      we are expecting operating ebitda of between eur 645 million and eur 715 million (previous
      year: eur 621 million) for the current fiscal year.

      cash flow driver margin
      with respect to our operating cash flow drivers, i.e. the net amount of operating ebitda, the change
      in working capital, and capital expenditure, we are aiming for a ratio to revenue of between 10.0 percent
      and 11.0 percent in 2016.

      further expectations

      acquisitions
      the strategy of acquiring companies to open up new markets for gea or specifically expand gea’s
      product portfolio in existing markets will remain unchanged and valid. this will enable us to provide
      our customers with an ever-broader range of services from a single source.

      dividend
      the executive board and supervisory board will propose a dividend of eur 0.80 per share for 2015
      to the annual general meeting. this would represent a total dividend volume eur 154.0 million. this
      dividend payment would also be in line with our objective of distributing between 40 and 50 percent
      of the consolidated profit to the shareholders.




100                                             gea annual report 2015

                  combined group management report / report on expected developments




summary
all told, provided that there is no further slowdown in the global economy, gea expects the group as
a whole to record moderate growth. the continual increase in profitability together with the ongoing
focus on liquidity generation should help to ensure that we have the financial leeway to successfully
implement the strategic growth targets. with regard to the distribution ratio, our objective is to keep
distributing between 40 and 50 percent of the consolidated profit to the shareholders.



düsseldorf, february 26, 2016




jürg oleas        dr. helmut schmale         steffen bersch       niels erik olsen     dr. stephan petri




                                         gea annual report 2015                                            101

                                            gea shares / investor relations




      gea shares/investor relations
      performance of gea shares on the capital markets
      in 2015, as in the previous year, developments on the international capital markets were dominated
      by the continuing expansionary monetary policy measures taken by the central banks, as well as by
      economic and in particular geopolitical volatility. the stock markets continued their rally into 2015
      and on toward the end of the first quarter, setting a string of record highs in the process. the dax
      reached an all-time high of 12,375 points on april 10, while the mdax hit the highest mark in its
      history (21,623 points) three days later on april 13. in particular, economic data from china put the
      brakes on the stock markets in the second and third quarters, prompting the various indexes to fall to
      their lowest levels in the year so far. the dax and the stoxx ® europe tmi industrial engineering
      hit their lowest points on september 24 (9,428 points) and september 28 (312.98 points) respectively,
      while the mdax hit its low for the year (16,700 points) on january 6. in the final quarter of the year,
      concerns as to the durability of global economic growth led to the stock markets closing the year well
      below their respective highs for the year.

      the dax ended the year on 10,743 points, a rise of 9.6 percent over the course of the year. the mdax
      closed the year on december 30 on 20,775 points, a rise of 22.7 percent. the stoxx ® europe tmi
      industrial engineering index closed the year on 350.64 points, a rise of 2.8 percent over the course of
      the year.

      gea’s share price increased slightly over the course of the fiscal year in a market environment
      dominated by strong economic and political factors. as the stock markets surged, so did gea’s shares.
      just a few days after the figures for the first quarter of 2015 were published, shares in gea hit
      eur 46.82 on april 10, the highest price of the last two decades. profit-taking and general market
      corrections affecting cyclical equities subsequently saw gea shares reach their lowest point in the
      year of eur 31.34 on september 24. in the final quarter, gea shares recovered to close the year at
      eur 37.40.

      140 %
                                    gea          stoxx® europe tmi industrial engineering          mdax

      130 %



      120 %



      110 %



      100 %



       90 %



       80 %
              jan.   feb.   mar.     apr.      may        jun.         jul.       aug.      sep.          oct.   nov.   dec.




102                                             gea annual report 2015

                                                                    gea shares / investor relations




         gea shares compared to stoxx ® europe tmi industrial engineering

         balance sheet date (12/31/2015)                                                                           market capitalization*
         last 3 months:                                                                                     2.0                                        percentage points
         last 6 months:                                                                                     1.9                                        percentage points
         last 9 months:                                                                                   –3.3                                         percentage points
         last 12 months:                                                                                  –0.7                                         percentage points
         last 24 months:                                                                                    6.7                                        percentage points
         last 36 months:                                                                                 39.4                                          percentage points
    > 10 percentage points       3 to 10 percentage points        3 to -3 percentage points     -3 to -10 percentage points       > -10 percentage points

*) based on shares issued by gea group aktiengesellschaft as of the particular reporting date




shareholder structure
as of december 31, 2015, gea group aktiengesellschaft did not hold any treasury shares, meaning
that the number of outstanding shares was unchanged at the end of the year, at 192,495,476. this led
to a market capitalization of eur 7.2 billion as of the end of 2015 compared with eur 7.0 billion in
december 2014, a 2.2 percent increase. the monthly index ranking of all listed german companies in
the dax, mdax, sdax, and tecdax published by deutsche börse on december 30 ranked gea
group aktiengesellschaft 33rd (previous year: 31st) in terms of market capitalization and 42nd
(previous year: 43rd) in terms of trading volume. at 0.5 million shares, the average daily trading
volume in official exchange trading in fiscal year 2015 was 16% above the previous year’s level of
0.4 million shares.

as in previous years, gea group aktiengesellschaft performed detailed analyses of its shareholder
structure in 2015. the current analysis from the second half of 2015 identified 86 percent of the
company’s shareholders. institutional investors held 78 percent of the shares and kuwait investment
office accounted for an unchanged figure of around 7.9 percent. institutional investors headquartered
in the uk remained the largest investor group, holding 26 percent of all shares (previous year:
24 percent). north american investors hold second place with around 19 percent of all gea shares
(previous year: 13 percent), followed by french investors, who hold around 8 percent of the shares
(previous year: 11 percent). the share of institutional investors from germany fell to around 5 percent
(previous year: 8 percent). the share of institutional investors with a long-term orientation fell to
around 64 percent (previous year: 67 percent). less than 1 percent of shares were held by hedge
funds. as a result, gea group aktiengesellschaft has a stable shareholder structure, which has
changed only slightly over time.



regional breakdown of shareholders
(%)                                                                                                                                             14.2
                                                                                                                                                                  24.3

                                                                                                                                 11.8

      continental europe excl. germany                                                                                                                                4.9
      germany
      uk and ireland
      north america                                                                                                                      18.8
      rest of world                                                                                                                                            25.9
      not identified (incl. 0.4% non-institutional shareholders)

based on 192,495,476 shares, which were issued by gea group aktiengesellschaft at the date of the survey in the fourth quarter of 2015




                                                                            gea annual report 2015                                                                          103

                                                                         gea shares / investor relations




      investment styles of institutional investors
      (%)                                                                                                                                        14.2


                                                                                                                                                               31.3
                                                                                                                                       13.4
            growth
            garp*                                                                                                                        0.6
            value
            index                                                                                                                          8.3
            hedge fund
            others inclusive kuwait investment office                                                                                            14.1   18.2
            not identified (incl. 0.4% non-institutional investors)

      *) growth at a reasonable price
      based on 192,495,476 shares, which were issued by gea group aktiengesellschaft at the date of the survey in the fourth quarter of 2015




      investor relations activities
      gea takes its task of maintaining close contact with capital market players – and hence close
      relationships with its shareholders, potential investors, and analysts – extremely seriously. in 2015,
      for example, gea’s investor relations activities again facilitated an ongoing, effective dialog with the
      capital markets. the company used these activities to inform its shareholders and investors about
      developments within the group in a transparent manner above and beyond its quarterly, half-yearly,
      and annual reports. it also kept in close contact with investors by taking part in international
      conferences and roadshows, which were regularly attended by the ceo and the cfo. in 2015, it held a
      total of 48 roadshows. gea representatives also took part in 24 conferences, as well as holding 606
      one-on-one meetings. in addition, analysts and investors had the opportunity to experience the
      company’s capabilities for themselves at gea group aktiengesellschaft’s headquarters in düsseldorf.
      investor relations activities in 2015 focused in particular on the launch of the “gea 2020” strategy
      first presented in the previous year and the corresponding reorganization of the group structure in
      line with the “fit for 2020” initiative (see pages 36 ff.).

      earnings per share
      earnings per share (eps) amounted to eur 1.88 in the past fiscal year. they are calculated by dividing
      consolidated profit for the period by the weighted average number of shares outstanding in the
      course of the fiscal year. an average of 192.5 million no-par value shares were outstanding in the
      reporting period.




104                                                                             gea annual report 2015

                                                     gea shares / investor relations




key performance indicators for gea shares                                                            2015     2014
shares issued (december 31, million)                                                                192.5    192.5
average shares outstanding (million)                                                                192.5    192.5
share price (december 31, eur) 1                                                                    37.40    36.60
high (eur)                                                                                          46.82    38.52
low (eur)                                                                                           31.34    30.42
market capitalization (december 31, eur billion) 2                                                    7.2       7.0
average daily trading volume (million)                                                                0.5       0.4
earnings per share (eur)                                                                             1.88     1.66
dividend per share (eur) 3                                                                           0.80     0.70
total dividend (eur million) 3                                                                      154.0    134.7
pay-out ratio 3                                                                                      42.6     42.0

1) or on the last trading day of reporting period
2) based on shares issued
3) based on dividend proposal
prices: xetra closing prices




dividend proposal
the executive board and supervisory board of gea group aktiengesellschaft will propose to the
annual general meeting on april 20, 2016 that a dividend of eur 0.80 be paid for fiscal year 2015. as
a result, the distribution ratio is in line with the target of distributing between 40 and 50 percent of
the consolidated profit to the shareholders. this represents a dividend yield of at least 2.1 percent on
the share price of eur 37.40 on december 30, 2015.

the dividend will be paid from the contribution account for tax purposes (section 27 of the körper­
schaftsteuergesetz (kstg – german corporate income tax act)) and therefore without deduction of
investment income tax and the solidarity surcharge. in the case of shareholders in germany, the
dividend is not subject to current taxation in the year of payment. the opinion of the german tax
authorities (see also the federal ministry of finance (bmf) circular dated december 22, 2009,
paragraph 92) is that the payment of dividends from the contribution account for tax purposes
constitutes a repayment of shareholder contributions, which results in a retrospective reduction in
the cost of the shares. this can lead to the imposition of higher capital gains taxes if the shares are
sold at a later date.

credit ratings/debt market
two international agencies, moody’s and fitch, have rated gea group aktiengesellschaft’s ability to
meet its financial obligations. these ratings serve as evidence of the company’s creditworthiness to
existing and potential debt capital providers. both agencies maintained their ratings of gea group
aktiengesellschaft’s creditworthiness in fiscal year 2015, resulting in the following ratings for the
gea group:

                                                                            2015                    2014
agency                                                                   rating        outlook   rating     outlook
moody‘s                                                                   baa2          stable    baa2       stable
fitch                                                                      bbb          stable     bbb       stable



these ratings ensure that gea has unlimited access to the international financial markets.




                                                         gea annual report 2015                                       105

                                           gea shares / investor relations




      to optimize its financing structure and secure long-term financing, gea group aktiengesellschaft
      adjusted its syndicated credit line (club deal) in the amount of eur 650 million in fiscal year 2015.
      the group was again able to optimize its financing structure in a timely and proactive manner by
      improving margins and documentation, and extending the maturity. the loan has a five-year term
      and features two renewal options of one year each up to august 2022. the group also reduced its
      financial liabilities with the european investment bank by eur 100 million ahead of schedule. in
      doing so, gea systematically implemented its previously announced financial policy of using part of
      the proceeds of approximately eur 1 billion from the sale of the heat exchangers segment to repay
      its financial liabilities. this highlights how important it is for gea to maintain its investment grade
      rating, and also serves to improve its financial result.

      in total, gea has credit lines (including its bond issue and borrower’s note loans) in the amount of
      eur 1,199 million, of which eur 429 million had been utilized as of the balance sheet date. further
      information on the credit lines and their utilization can be found in note 3 to the consolidated
      financial statements beginning on page 152 ff.




106                                            gea annual report 2015

                                                 sustainability report




sustainability report
responsible corporate behavior is integral to the long-term success of a company. as an international
technology group and one of the world’s largest suppliers of process technology for the food industry,
gea is acutely aware of its distinct economic, social and environmental responsibilities. as a consequence,
one of gea’s principal corporate objectives is to offer solutions that ensure environmental protection
while delivering substantial benefits to society and a high level of economic efficiency.

to gea, sustainability means securing a viable future on the basis of a sound social and economic
environment as well as unspoilt natural surroundings. sustainability management also serves the
purpose of mitigating economic, social and reputational risks. megatrends such as continued
population growth, rising urbanization and progressing climate change bring the world face to face
with mounting challenges: in the future, more and more people will require an adequate supply of
food, energy or pharmaceutical products – always on the premise that resources are being conserved.
with a footprint in the world’s fast-growing regions that comprises distribution and production
capabilities allowing gea to directly supply local markets, the company offers key solutions on the
basis of its product portfolio that ranges from technical components, machinery and systems to a
comprehensive set of services. at the same time, the company regards its commitment to corporate
social responsibility (csr) as an economic, social and environmental investment, and, thus, an
investment in its own future commensurate with our corporate claim “engineering for a better world“.


sustainability at gea
                                                              - climate protection
                                                                 - resource-efficient products
                                                                    - environmentally friendly production

                                                  ecology


                     - codes of conduct                                     - pension and healthcare production
                          - compliance                                        - diversity
                                                                               - social commitment
             - corporate governance         economy         society            - company values
                - leadership principles
                  - safety management                                          - responsible employer
                      - shareholder value




in the long run, gea seeks to safeguard the interests of its shareholders, customers and employees
while assuming its responsibility towards society by strengthening its international competitiveness
and boosting its economic success. primarily, the group pursues this objective by proving to be a
reliable partner offering appealing and sustainable products to its customers, by acting as an exemplary
employer for around 17,500 employees worldwide, by paying taxes and by promoting non-profit projects.

even though energy consumption and emission levels during production are relatively low in the
mechanical engineering sector, gea regularly checks all areas for potential improvements in
efficiency.




                                                 gea annual report 2015                                           107

                                                 sustainability report




      apart from having aligned its value creation processes with ecological principles, the company also
      helps its customers protect the environment by providing efficient products and process solutions. as
      a rule, the technologies and processes they employ are highly energy-intensive, which is why energy
      savings and reductions in emissions or waste become increasingly important in connection with the
      capital investment decisions taken by these customers. for years, gea’s solutions have set standards
      for a successful combination of economic and ecological factors (see page 117 ff.).

      health, safety & environment
      by issuing the following statement, the executive board of gea group aktiengesellschaft has
      committed itself to a clear corporate policy in terms of health, safety & environment:

      we will perform all our business activities in keeping with gea’s values and ethical principles
      enshrined in the global business conduct policy and the codes of conduct that govern our
      underlying basic principles of social responsibility.

      for the purpose of living up to these aspirations in the fields of health, safety and environment
      (hse), we hereby commit ourselves to:

      − improving the general well-being of our employees,
      − creating an accident- and incident-free working environment and preventing occupational disease,
      − complying with all statutory requirements, applicable rules, regulations and national standards,
      − identifying, analyzing and efficiently managing hse risks inherent in our business activities,
      − preventing environmental pollution and reducing energy consumption, waste and emissions,
      − defining measures designed to prevent incidents and adequately handle emergencies, problems
        and their aftermath,
      − clearly allocating functions and responsibilities and providing training to ensure the required
        skills,
      − continuously monitoring and improving our systems, services and performance by evaluating our
         objectives, and to implementing appropriate sustainable corrective and preventive action.

      these corporate standards are communicated to all individuals acting for or on behalf of gea, and
      everybody is to be actively involved in enforcing this policy. the latter is disseminated at all our sites
      and available to the general public on the corporate website (www.gea.com at investor-relations/
      corporate-governance).
      for implementing this policy, numerous organizational units have installed management systems
      certified in accordance with iso 14001, ohsas 18001 and/or iso 50001.

      economically sustainable
      the production of processed foods and beverages represents one of the world’s most stable growth
      markets that is expected to enjoy continuous growth over the coming decades. as a technology leader,
      gea offers these markets machinery, components, systems and process plants that guarantee safe
      process control as well as highest efficiency and hygiene standards.




108                                             gea annual report 2015

                                          sustainability report




detailed information on gea’s guiding principles, organizational structure and business orientation
can be found in the chapter entitled “organization and structure” (see page 22 ff.).

corporate governance
gea places a high priority on transparent and responsible corporate governance and management
aimed at long-term value enhancement. thus, gea aligns its activities with the recognized principles
of corporate governance and nearly fully complies with the recommendations of the german
corporate governance code.

a detailed presentation of corporate governance matters can be found in the corporate governance
report included in this annual report (see page 64 ff.).

compliance
compliance is gea’s top priority. this is why all gea managers and employees must comply with the
law and the relevant guidelines. wrongful or even criminal actions as well as violations of internal
corporate guidelines will not be tolerated. gea has drawn up detailed guidelines – in particular an
anti-corruption and a competition guideline – that come with binding guidelines for action.
periodic training and monitoring help avoid or detect non-compliant conduct at an early stage. in this
context, employees may be instrumental in drawing attention to potential compliance violations.

by means of the so-called integrity system employees – including external third parties, for instance
business partners – are given the possibility of directly reporting severe compliance issues or
violations of the “codes of conduct – principles of social responsibility” via an internet-based system.
in this respect, gea attaches importance to an open corporate culture.

the integrity system offers an additional communication channel if the standard reporting lines fail
to apply. for instance, this may be the case if immediate action is required in the event of gross
misconduct. this system also allows anonymous reporting as far as this is permitted in the country in
question. nonetheless, this system shall not constitute a general platform for complaints. therefore,
it only comprises reporting categories that embrace a substantial risk to the company, its employees
and all other stakeholders.

further compliance-related information can be found in the corporate governance report included
in this annual report (see page 64 ff.).

codes of conduct – principles of social responsibility
together with its european works council, gea group aktiengesellschaft adopted codes of conduct
(principles of social responsibility) back in october 2007. they outline a binding set of values,
principles and modes of behavior that govern corporate conduct at gea group level. with these
ethical and legal standards, gea has made a clear commitment to free and fair global trade as a vital
precondition for sustained global economic growth. wherever possible, the group supports measures
designed to combat underdevelopment in third world countries while fully accepting its corporate
social responsibility. likewise, gea welcomes the principles of the un global compact initiative and
endorses all internal and external corporate social responsibility (csr) initiatives taking place within
the framework of the advancing process of internationalization. the group has pledged to respect




                                         gea annual report 2015                                            109

                                                 sustainability report




      human rights and the core labor standards developed by the international labour organization
      (ilo). in addition, gea fully complies with the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises.

      incorporation into the organizational structure
      aside from the compliance organization described in the separate corporate governance report, the
      group management level includes areas of responsibility, which are dedicated to diversity, company
      values and crisis management. in addition, the health, safety & environment (hse) organization is
      also embedded in the company.

      socially sustainable
      gea fully accepts its obligation to make a contribution to the sustainable development of society –
      both at a corporate level by acting as a responsible employer and in a wider social context.

      responsible employer
      in 2015, gea was once again awarded the “fair company“ seal for its responsible and transparent
      interaction with students and job starters. when distinguishing gea’s graduate (trainee) program,
      absolventa called it career enhancing and fair. in the year 2015, the universum professional
      ranking listed gea amongst the 100 most popular employers in germany.




                                                                                        awards received by gea in its
                                                                                        capacity as a responsible employer




      for more detailed information on talent management and human resources development at gea,
      please refer to the chapter on employees (see page 54 f.).

      leadership@gea

      the 12 leadership qualities defined by gea have been integrated in all processes governing executive
      development programs and, thus, constitute the key pillars for basic and advanced training as well as
      succession planning. specifically, these qualities include a down-to-earth mentality/respect for others,
      integrity/authenticity, vitality, drive, empathy, intuition, good communication skills, the ability to see
      the big picture, an appreciation of the efforts of others, a commitment to sustainably developing our
      management culture, the ability to reason as well as resilience. each of these qualities was defined in
      detail and is easy to grasp, with the definitions conveying the requirements stipulated by the
      company in this particular field.




110                                            gea annual report 2015

                                          sustainability report




diversity
gea operates in a challenging international market environment with a large number of players who
influence the company in many different ways – ranging from customers, competitors and employees
down to the government and society in general. companies may meet this multitude of challenges
arising in this extremely diverse cultural environment by being aware of diversity and by actively
creating it within their own ranks.

in this context, diversity refers to the composition of the workforce in terms of internationality,
gender, age and qualifications. for the purpose of promoting diversity on as many levels as possible
and for creating an attractive working environment, to name but one example, gea also seeks to
increasingly consider aspects of modern work flexibilization schemes while enhancing mobility
within the company. gea is aware of the fact that diversity represents a critical success factor, since
diversity means strength.

under its diversity strategy, gea implements a mix of measures designed to promote diversity. for
instance, when recruiting staff, gea always makes a point of taking into consideration diversity
criteria. one of gea’s objectives is to attract more women while including a higher number of
talented female employees in internal employee development initiatives. furthermore, diversity
management provides the platform for reliably identifying high potentials and talents. the entire
pool of young talents is to be developed in line with the above gea diversity criteria.

the success and progress of gea’s diversity management is measured on the basis of diversity
performance indicators.

the current proportion of women in the total workforce amounts to ca. 18 percent. on the first three
uppermost management levels below executive board level, women account for 8 percent of gea’s
managers worldwide. in terms of the international composition of its workforce, gea employs more
than 70 different nationalities.

a further measure taken to institutionalize diversity management within the company embraced the
introduction of an official diversity policy in tandem with a guideline for executives: this policy
describes the overriding goals and current progress of diversity management at gea. the guideline
provides managers with an instrument for implementing diversity management at all group levels.

on account of its importance to corporate culture, the topic of diversity is closely entwined with
gea’s corporate values. in this respect, diversity is an engine for change towards more diversity of
thought and action.




                                         gea annual report 2015                                           111

                                                sustainability report




                                                          corporate values
                                                          gea vision and gea values are the corner­stones
                                                          of gea’s management philosophy. they are the
                                                          crucial elements of a common gea identity. by
                                                          establishing the corporate values of “excellence”,
                                                          “responsibility”, “integrity”, “passion” and “gea-
                                                          versity”, gea has set up a reference and orientation
                                                          system that creates a common understanding and
                                                          guideline governing the personal behavior of both
                                                          managers and employees: we stand for excellence
      in everything we do; we work with passion; we walk the talk; we feel responsible for our actions; we
      overcome boundaries.

      thus, gea values guide our interaction with our employees, our customers and external partners. at
      the end of the day, our gea values are to increase the level of efficiency and professionalism in all
      gea operations, while supporting a constructive dialogue inside and outside of the company.

      work and family life
      gea has implemented a host of measures to help employees reconcile the demands of work and
      family life, including competent contact persons for expectant mothers and fathers as well as a
      sponsorship program for mothers and fathers on parental leave, company-organized childcare,
      flexible working hours and opportunities to take up mobile telework.

      in addition, gea cooperates with an international, external service provider to support employees in
      their search for adequate childcare facilities or options for dependents in need of care.

      at some sites, gea offers its employees the possibility of placing their children in nearby day
      nurseries or large daycare facilities. there are places for children of all ages, with gea covering the
      expenses incurred. places in full day care allow children to play with their peers while enjoying a
      versatile leisure and development program.

      occupational safety
      in order to work productively and fully harness their potential, employees need a pleasant and safe
      working environment. gea’s aspiration to offer all employees safe conditions in the workplace is
      enshrined in the codes of conduct obliging our managers to guarantee the best possible health and
      safety conditions in every gea workplace worldwide.

      unforeseen incidents such as natural disasters or terrorist attacks may also have severe consequences
      for gea and the safety, health and life of its staff.

      for managing such substantial corporate risks as effectively as possible, gea has set up a comprehensive
      safety management organization: our “major incident management manual” outlines clearly defined
      criteria for detecting, assessing and reporting critical incidents. the manual also includes measures
      and explicit action plans designed to ensure a swift and adequate emergency response and provide
      the names of competent contacts within gea.




112                                            gea annual report 2015

                                          sustainability report




our “serious events reporting system“ makes sure that fatal or severe accidents, fires, explosions or
environmental incidents are reported to the competent member of staff within the organization as
quickly as possible. this allows gea to swiftly and efficiently respond to such incidents, mitigate
their impact and/or immediately initiate a probe into what happened.

worldwide hse data, e.g. monthly accident statistics, are recorded with the help of special software.
in addition, the underlying causes of accidents and incidents are ascertained. the intelligence
gathered on the basis of these investigations is communicated to the organization for preventive
purposes, with the implementation of the respective measures being monitored.

travel safety
gea’s safety management provides a comprehensive service available to all employees traveling
worldwide on behalf of the group. it offers them detailed travel and safety information for every
region around the globe. should one of our employees nonetheless get caught up in an emergency, he
or she can contact the 24/7 gea security and support hotline. if necessary, this service can also
organize personal protection for any employee and at any location worldwide at short notice. the
medical support service hotline provides assistance in health-related issues and ensures appropriate
medical care or repatriation in the event of illness, if need be. using a security app and a mobile
device, gea employees can also obtain medical and safety information relating to a specific site at
any time or directly contact the 24-hour hotline at the gea security center via an emergency button.

gea also maintains a continuously updated database that embraces the locations of all employees on
business trips worldwide. in the event of a regional crisis, this so-called travel tracker enables us to
respond rapidly and provide our employees with active assistance.

gea aid commission
employees, who suddenly get into difficulties, for instance due to a severe accident or a sudden
illness, require rapid and unbureaucratic financial assistance. in a group-wide agreement concluded
with the group works council, gea has pledged to unbureaucratically provide financial assistance
under such circumstances. employees affected in this way, but also the families of employees who
suddenly pass away, may turn to the gea aid commission for support.

company pension scheme
gea wants all its employees to enjoy their well-deserved retirement. this also includes the financial
security to enjoy an acceptable standard of living. in many countries, however, the impact of
demographic change, increased life expectancy and high unemployment rates places a growing
financial burden on state pension systems. as a result, private and, in particular, company pension
schemes will play an increasingly significant role in closing such future pensions gaps. thus, the
company provides an efficient pension scheme for all its employees.

in 2015, gea’s executive pension scheme was transformed into a defined contribution system.

gea also offers an attractive performance-related pension scheme to employees below senior
management level. in germany, for instance, this is based on an employee-financed deferred




                                         gea annual report 2015                                            113

                                                sustainability report




      compensation plan. employees are given the possibility of waiving part of their monthly salary and
      contributing this amount to the pension plan (deferred compensation). if an employee chooses this
      option, gea tops up this basic employee contribution with an additional employer contribution; the
      latter is financed by the company and performance-related.

      healthcare
      healthy employees are more productive, more reliable and more motivated. thus, a health-conscious
      workforce also promotes the long-term and sustainable development of a company. for this reason,
      gea supports its employees with a variety of active healthcare offerings.

      the program designed to promote employee health comprises a broad range of measures to prevent
      illness. inter alia, they include cancer screening, stop smoking seminars, workplace ergonomics
      training as well as fitness meals in staff canteens. moreover, the company addresses safety issues:
      safe winter driving or walking, how to get to work by bike, as well as information on noise, protection
      against cuts or on how to keep the workplace clean and tidy, to name but a few examples. apart from
      these campaigns, 2015 also saw some new topics like a healthy diet.

      healthcare coaching
      in special development assessment centers supported by external coaches, employees obtain
      comprehensive information on the health benefits of physical exercise, fitness and a proper diet.
      where possible, this theoretical information is supplemented by practical exercises. all preventive
      measures are tailored to the actual living and working circumstances of the employees concerned. in
      addition, the group also offers individual coaching with fitness tests or health analyses.

      socially committed
      as a global enterprise, gea is also involved in a host of local projects undertaken outside its own
      companies, where the local population directly benefits from the support provided by the
      company. in many different ways, gea and its employees make their contribution to help others.

      the fascinating world of engineering
      gea places particular emphasis on promoting projects that involve children and adolescents,
      allowing them to experience the fascinating world of engineering at a very early stage of their lives.
                                                            at gea’s location in oelde, for instance,
                                                            “stöbertage” (exploration days) are open to very
                                                            young children at pre-school level. groups of
                                                            kindergarten children paying a visit to gea learn
                                         ‘exploration days’ about tools and machinery while discovering the
                                         at gea are a great
                                         experience for     world of engineering. in addition to that, gea
                                         children
                                                            supports a variety of institutions such as schools
                                                            and kindergartens.




114                                            gea annual report 2015

                                           sustainability report




school-business cooperation network
cooperation between schools and businesses that aims at easing the transition from school to work
and/or assisting students in choosing a specific career or university degree helps ensure that
companies – especially technically-oriented undertakings – will be able to recruit workers from a
reasonably large pool of new labor. this is why gea is involved in the school-business cooperation
network that covers activities such as information events at participating schools, job application
training for students and projects jointly undertaken by students and trainees.

girls‘ day
gea participates in the german girls’ day, an initiative designed to encourage girls from the fifth grade
onwards to think about their future career options. it provides them with an opportunity to find out
more about a wide variety of professions in science and technology. this event combines the features of
an open day and a detailed information event by offering participants a hands-on experience of
technology designed to encourage them to take an interest in engineering from an early age onwards.

“technik ist zukunft” initiative
in the future, gea will continue to need creative young people with a passion for science and
technology. for convincing students of the multiple opportunities and appeal of a career in
engineering and of the career opportunities offered by gea, the company has joined forces with other
businesses, for instance within the framework of the “technik ist zukunft” (“technology is the
future”) initiative. while gea grants financial support to the initiative, many of its employees
establish direct links with tomorrow’s qualified skilled labor: at the various “technik ist zukunft”
action days held at schools, they give students graphic accounts of their work, while informing them
about gea products and services as well as career opportunities offered by the company. gea also
regularly invites groups of students to participate in tours of gea sites, giving them a comprehensive
insight into production processes and the daily working routine.

industry contact forum
the eighth edition of the ‘industriekontaktforum’ (industry contact forum) held in 2015 at gea’s site
in büchen, germany, also serves the purpose of promoting qualified and talented young people.
around 50 male and female students from the hamburg haw (university of applied sciences), the
flensburg university of applied sciences, as well as at the universities of hannover and fulda were
given an early insight into the work of a project engineer while still pursuing their studies at the
above universities. the event focused on an exchange with gea experts, who covered specialist and
technical issues relating to the food, juice and dairy processing industry while also providing
information on entry-level and general career opportunities at gea.

social sponsoring
in many different ways, gea gets actively involved in social projects and organizations.

for the previous 12 years, the company has supported the future farmers of america (ffa)
organization within the framework of the world dairy expo in madison (usa), to name but one
example. ffa is an interdisciplinary student organization for students interested in agriculture and
management. the funds donated by gea are used for various activities and seminars aimed at
promoting young talents in the field of agriculture.




                                          gea annual report 2015                                            115

                                                sustainability report




      the wallace & gromit‘s children‘s charity is a british charity raising funds to improve the lives of
      sick children in hospitals and hospices. in great britain, gea has sponsored this organization for a
      number of years.

      in 2015, gea again organized an annually recurring event in north america. joining forces with
      employees and customers, it made a contribution to support susan g. komen, a non-profit
      organization engaged in combating breast cancer.

      ecologically sustainable
      sustainability in the ecological sense is based on the principle of protecting nature and conserving its
      limited resources. in this context, gea’s innovative products make an important contribution, since
      in the world of process technology, the days when ecology and economy pursued conflicting interests
      are long gone. by using gea machinery, components, systems and plants, our customers advance the
      cause of climate protection. but also within the company, environmental protection is accorded its
      rightful place.

      environmental protection at gea
      gea’s key environmental objectives focus on the prevention of adverse environmental impacts, for
      instance by reducing the levels of energy consumption, waste and emissions. identifying the main
      environmental parameters at a local level, gea analyzes their significance and influence on products
      and services for the purpose of deriving measures for improvement. the environmental parameters
      subject to monitoring include:

      -   emissions
      -   energy consumption
      -   hazardous goods handling, including water-polluting agents such as acids and alkalis
      -   waste
      -   noise
      -   waste water/water consumption

      environmental protection and the efficient use of resources are standard practice throughout the
      group. production waste is sorted and, wherever possible, recycled. environmental impacts are
      largely avoided, for example by using exhaust gas filters and collecting vessels, or by treating and
      recycling process liquids. of course, this scheme also includes energy audits that are conducted in
      line with the requirements under the energiedienstleistungsgesetz (energy services act).

      selected initiatives

      carbon disclosure project
      as in previous years, gea took part in the 2015 survey conducted within the framework of the
      carbon disclosure project (cdp). cdp is an independent, not-for-profit organization currently
      representing more than 700 institutional investors. each year, it gathers information on the
      greenhouse gas emissions of major listed corporations and their strategies to combat climate change.
      the results are then made available to current and potential investors. in this survey, gea also
      provided information on the opportunities and risks related to climate change, as well as action taken
      in the field of climate protection. from gea’s perspective, any potential risks arising from shifts in
      demand will at the very least be offset by equally large opportunities to supply customers with
      energy-efficient solutions for their production processes from our wide range of products.




116                                            gea annual report 2015

                                                 sustainability report




in 2015, gea was awarded the “best improver germany 2015” prize by cdp for the way it reported on
the measures taken in the field of climate protection. the award, which was presented to the group
on the occasion of the “climate leadership award ceremony & conference“ held in bonn, germany,
especially acknowledges gea’s distinct improvement in the cdp ranking.

blue competence sustainability initiative
gea is an alliance member of “blue competence”, an initiative of the german engineering association
(vdma). the members of the initiative have pledged to develop and/or promote sustainable
engineering solutions in harmony with economic, ecological, and societal needs. in doing so, they
                                                     seek to assume responsibility for prosperity,
                                                     education, safety and nature. the industry
                                                     associations, organizations and companies
                                                     involved in this initiative – including gea –
                                                     always consider the consequences of
                                vdma blue competence
                                initiative           urbanization and globalization in the ways they
                                                     think and act.

sustainability – for the benefit of climate and customers
energy consumption is an increasingly important factor in the total cost of ownership of a machine
or plant. gea believes that global climate change creates major potential for the use of its energy-
efficient products.

the following examples show the savings potential for a variety of resources, which is provided by
gea’s machinery, components, systems and plants.

zero-water dairy processing plant
in view of limited resources, enhanced water consumption management has become of crucial
importance to the industrial sector. for many years, gea has been supplying water recovery systems
for dairy processing plants allowing companies to reclaim water from milk for the purpose of
                                                                         re-usage within the plant. due to an ever-growing
                                                                         world population, theses processes have adopted
                                                                         a new sense of urgency while becoming more
                                                                         and more sophisticated. in the meantime, the
                                                                         technology required to reprocess water – not
                                                                         only for cleaning in the factory, but also for use
                                                                         in product-contact operations – has become
the water recovered from the milk during processing is filtered in a gea available. zero water consumption dairy
reverse osmosis plant.
                                                                         processing plants have become a reality.

the water recovered from the milk during processing is filtered by means of reverse osmosis
processes, just like before. in the downstream step, gea solutions apply carbon filters to remove
odours, treat the water with ultraviolet light and chlorine dioxide to elminate contamination, and add
minerals to make the water less aggressive to plant systems. in fact, gea treats water exactly the
same way as the product itself, i.e., by relying on plants and equipment that meet the highest




                                                gea annual report 2015                                                        117

                                                  sustainability report




      standards of hygiene. as a result, the quality of the treated water complies with who standards for
      drinking water and may be utilized for quite a number of process steps, like the last rinse cycle, for
      rinsing cans, cleaning pipework and tanks and even as an ingredient that is added to the final
      product.

                                                                 energy recovery and water management
                                                                 processes for breweries
                                                                 beer production requires considerable amounts of
                                                                 thermal energy – the bulk of which is being
                                                                 consumed in the brewhouse. factors affecting
                                       gea’s energy storage
                                       system achieves primary   energy consumption include, inter alia, the kind of
                                       energy savings of 20
                                       to 50 percent at brew     raw materials being used, their quality as well as
                                       house level.
                                                                 the design of the process applied. the thermal heat
                                                                 consumption of brewhouses installed all over the
                                                                 world varies widely from 18 to 40 kwh/hl.

      supporting brewery customers in upgrading their plants to state-of-the-art technology in terms of
      energy consumption, gea is offering bespoke energy supply strategies that usually embrace an
      energy storage system.

      gea’s energy storage system allows the transfer of energy from the wort kettle vapours to the
      following brew. instead of releasing the vapors into the atmosphere, they are condensed, with the
      respective energy being transferred into the water. this water is used in the following brew to heat
      the wort from its filtration temperature of around 77°c to approx. 94-95°c. as a result, a substantial
      proportion of the heat energy required by cutting-edge systems is no longer generated on the basis of
      fossil fuels, but obtained by means of a heat recovery process. this energy storage process enables
      our customers to realize primary energy savings of between 20 and 50 percent for brewhouse
      operations.

      in brewhouses situated in the equatorial zone, the ambient water temperature is typically between
      20°c and 37°c during the summer, which requires a two-stage cooling process. at any rate, the hot
      water production in the wort cooler exceeds the amount of water required by the brewery as a whole.
      the resulting excess hot water must be disposed of via the sewerage system, with a loss of drinking-
      quality water and of the energy contained in the 80°c hot water. apart from storage systems for
      energy conversion that rely on closed water cycles, gea is also offering open-cycle systems equipped
      with two water tanks for temperature levels of 79°c and 98°c, respectively. subject to the quality of
      the raw materials employed and dependent on further process parameters, the water management
      process developed by gea allows a 35 to 100 percent reduction in hot water losses. within the
      framework of a project conducted in south america, the solution provided by gea has helped
      salvage around 100 m³ of hot water per day that no longer need to be disposed of.




118                                              gea annual report 2015

                                                             sustainability report




                                                                         ecospin2 zero – sustainable aseptic filling
                                                                         with introduction of ecospin2 zero, gea has
                                                                         achieved an advance in development of its wet
                                                                         aseptic bottling technology ecospin. the new
                                                                         system ensures that no peroxides are released
                                                                         into the environment, which is why it provides
                                                                         the optimum solution in terms of sustainability.

                                                    prior to filling, the pet bottles for sensitive
gea’s ecospin2 zero filling technology does not release any harmful
chemicals into the atmosphere
                                                    beverages are sterilized in an aseptic environment.
in developing this seventh generation of ecospin technology combined with zero emissions and a
reduced level of water and energy consumption, gea’s filling specialists have made substantial progress
in various fields.

step number one embraced gea’s optimization of the use of peracetic acid (ppa) as a sterilization
medium to ensure that only a minimum amount of chemicals are required for achieving the
necessary sterilization effect. in a second step, rinsing time per bottle was reduced to one second only,
which – in turn – significantly cuts the amount of sterile water used during this stage.

at the end of a production run, the remaining paa undergoes a neutralizing process to make sure
that the water can be safely used for cleaning within the plant. this reduces water consumption at
production level and prevents the release of chemicals into the environment.

paa vapors generated while the bottles are sterilized by means of a chemical solution are subjected
to a vacuum extraction process and freed from all chemical residues. this enhances the working
environment of the operators while making sure that no harmful chemicals are released into the
atmosphere.




                                                            gea annual report 2015                                          119

120   gea annual report 2015

consolidated financial
statements

122		 consolidated balance sheet

124		 consolidated income statement

125		 consolidated statement of comprehensive income

126		 consolidated cash flow statement

127		 consolidated statement of changes in equity

128		 notes to the consolidated financial statements

128     1. reporting principles

136     2. accounting policies

152     3. financial risk management

159 4. assets held for sale, liabilities held for sale,
			 and discontinued operations

161     5. acquisitions

166     6. consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets

177     7. consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities

205     8. consolidated income statement disclosures

213 9. contingent liabilities, other financial obligations,
			 contingent assets, and litigation

215 10. segment reporting

220 11. other disclosures

222 12. events after the end of the reporting period

222 13. supplemental disclosures in accordance
			 with section 315a of the hgb




                          gea annual report 2015                            121

                                           consolidated financial statements




      consolidated balance sheet
      as of december 31, 2015


      assets
      (eur thousand)                                                           section   12/31/2015   12/31/2014
      property, plant and equipment                                               6.1      508,072      498,758
      investment property                                                         6.2        7,736       12,483
      goodwill                                                                    6.3    1,431,515    1,329,972
      other intangible assets                                                     6.4      382,359      325,557
      equity-accounted investments                                                6.5       16,631       15,293
      other non-current financial assets                                          6.6       36,454       63,433
      deferred taxes                                                              8.8      491,119      469,301
      non-current assets                                                                 2,873,886    2,714,797
      inventories                                                                 6.7      548,623      561,875
      trade receivables                                                           6.8    1,118,081      945,755
      income tax receivables                                                      6.9       26,082       17,531
      other current financial assets                                              6.6      372,289      390,625
      cash and cash equivalents                                                  6.10    1,174,150    1,195,858
      assets held for sale                                                          4.       8,121        5,585
      current assets                                                                     3,247,346    3,117,229
      total assets                                                                       6,121,232    5,832,026




122                                             gea annual report 2015

                                           consolidated financial statements




equity and liabilities
(eur thousand)                                                                 section   12/31/2015   12/31/2014
subscribed capital                                                                         520,376      520,376
capital reserve                                                                          1,217,861    1,217,861
retained earnings                                                                          962,515      737,094
accumulated other comprehensive income                                                     142,877       51,316
non-controlling interests                                                                      570          560
equity                                                                            7.1    2,844,199    2,527,207
non-current provisions                                                            7.2      145,160      131,592
non-current employee benefit obligations                                          7.3      775,594      793,565
non-current financial liabilities                                                 7.4      177,009      456,072
other non-current liabilities                                                     7.7       63,708       58,566
deferred taxes                                                                    8.8      111,170      118,598
non-current liabilities                                                                  1,272,641    1,558,393
current provisions                                                                7.2      130,607      148,828
current employee benefit obligations                                              7.3      244,235      170,637
current financial liabilities                                                     7.4      300,735      133,474
trade payables                                                                    7.5      610,315      639,719
income tax liabilities                                                            7.6       40,743       35,649
other current liabilities                                                         7.7      677,757      618,119
current liabilities                                                                      2,004,392    1,746,426
total equity and liabilities                                                             6,121,232    5,832,026




                                                gea annual report 2015                                             123

                                                            consolidated financial statements




      consolidated income statement
      for the period january 1 – december 31, 2015


                                                                                                         01/01/2015 -                    01/01/2014 -
      (eur thousand)                                                      section                         12/31/2015                      12/31/2014
                                                                                    excluding restruc-     restructuring
                                                                                                turing         expenses          total
      revenue                                                                8.1           4,599,269                    –   4,599,269      4,515,689
      cost of sales                                                                        3,118,718            51,763      3,170,481      3,066,491
      gross margin                                                                        1,480,551            –51,763      1,428,788      1,449,198
      selling expenses                                                                       499,532            23,472       523,004         469,800
      research and development expenses                                                       66,377              5,802       72,179          68,149
      general and administrative expenses                                                    492,555            43,333       535,888         506,059
      other income                                                           8.2             392,141                    –    392,141         229,193
      other expenses                                                         8.3             382,357              1,263      383,620         202,331
      share of profit or loss of equity-accounted investments                                  2,569                    –       2,569          2,387
      other financial income                                                 8.6               2,499                    –       2,499          5,700
      other financial expenses                                               8.7               1,861                    –       1,861            279
      earnings before interest and tax (ebit)                                               435,078           –125,633       309,445        439,860
      interest income                                                        8.6                                              11,475           7,057
      interest expense                                                       8.7                                              50,913          73,087
      profit before tax from continuing operations                                                                           270,007        373,830
      income taxes                                                           8.8                                                5,758         87,816
       thereof current taxes                                                                                                  61,428          80,751
       thereof deferred taxes                                                                                                –55,670           7,065
      profit after tax from continuing operations                                                                            264,249        286,014
      profit or loss after tax from discontinued operations                    4                                              97,617          34,612
      profit for the period                                                                                                  361,866        320,626
       thereof attributable to shareholders of gea group ag                                                                  361,857         320,483
       thereof attributable to non-controlling interests                                                                            9            143




      (eur)
      basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations                                                            1.37            1.49
      basic and diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations                                                          0.51            0.18
      basic and diluted earnings per share                                                                          8.9          1.88            1.66
      weighted average number of ordinary shares used to calculate basic and diluted
      earnings per share (million)                                                                                              192.5          192.5




124                                                               gea annual report 2015

                                                     consolidated financial statements




consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the period january 1 – december 31, 2015


                                                                                                   01/01/2015 -   01/01/2014 -
(eur thousand)                                                                           section    12/31/2015     12/31/2014
profit for the period                                                                                 361,866        320,626

items, that will not be reclassified to profit or loss in the future:
actuarial gains/losses on pension and other post-employment benefit obligations           7.3.1         –1,689        –95,504
 thereof changes in actuarial gains and losses                                                          –1,463       –135,048
 thereof tax effect                                                                                       –226         39,544

items, that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
when specific conditions are met:
exchange differences on translating foreign operations                                                  87,212        111,056
 thereof changes in unrealized gains and losses                                                         87,212        117,840
 thereof realized gains and losses                                                                           –         –6,784
result of available-for-sale financial assets                                               7.8            763         –1,259
 thereof changes in unrealized gains and losses                                                          1,089         –1,797
 thereof tax effect                                                                                       –326            538
result of cash flow hedges                                                                               3,586         –5,391
 thereof changes in unrealized gains and losses                                                            946        –11,774
 thereof realized gains and losses                                                                       4,485          3,628
 thereof tax effect                                                                                     –1,845          2,755
other comprehensive income                                                                              89,872          8,902
total comprehensive income                                                                            451,738        329,528
 thereof attributable to gea group ag shareholders                                                     451,729        329,321
 thereof attributable to non-controlling interests                                                           9            207




                                                            gea annual report 2015                                               125

                                                              consolidated financial statements




      consolidated cash flow statement
      for the period january 1 – december 31, 2015


                                                                                                            01/01/2015 -   01/01/2014 -
      (eur thousand)                                                                              section    12/31/2015     12/31/2014
      profit for the period                                                                                     361,866        320,626
       plus income taxes                                                                                          5,758         87,816
       minus profit or loss after tax from discontinued operations                                              –97,617        –34,612
      profit before tax from continuing operations                                                              270,007        373,830
      net interest income                                                                                        39,438         66,030
      earnings before interest and tax (ebit)                                                                  309,445        439,860
      depreciation, amortization, impairment losses, and reversal of impairment losses
      on non-current assets                                                                                     120,342        100,073
      other non-cash income and expenses                                                                         –8,021          5,530
      employee benefit obligations from defined benefit pension plans                                           –40,015        –40,462
      change in provisions and other employee benefit obligations                                                59,928         33,001
      losses and disposal of non-current assets                                                                    –722           –637
      change in inventories including unbilled construction contracts *                                           5,634        –21,764
      change in trade receivables                                                                               –53,997          8,184
      change in trade payables                                                                                  –64,693        –45,329
      change in other operating assets and liabilities                                                           82,305         13,425
      tax payments                                                                                              –85,524        –90,265
      cash flow from operating activities of continued operations                                              324,682        401,616
      cash flow from operating activities of discontinued operations                                            –22,559         37,112
      cash flow from operating activities                                                                      302,123        438,728
      proceeds from disposal of non-current assets                                                                3,424          5,354
      payments to acquire property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets                                  –90,679        –93,781
      payments from current financial assets                                                         6.6       –200,000       –237,919
      proceeds from current financial assets                                                                    200,000              –
      interest income                                                                                             6,816          4,946
      dividend income                                                                                             4,107          5,701
      payments to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses                                                    –119,723         –8,677
      advanced payments to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses                                                  –        –25,000
      cash flow from investing activities of continued operations                                             –196,055       –349,376
      cash flow from investing activities of discontinued operations                                            142,911        923,811
      cash flow from investing activities                                                                       –53,144       574,435
      dividend payments                                                                                        –134,747       –115,497
      payments from finance leases                                                                               –4,153         –4,943
      proceeds from finance loans                                                                                 2,762          7,161
      proceeds from bond issue                                                                       7.4              –       –125,261
      repayments of borrower‘s note loans                                                            7.4              –       –210,000
      repayments of finance loans                                                                              –107,508       –121,265
      interest payments                                                                                         –26,650        –49,122
      cash flow from financing activities of continued operations                                             –270,296       –618,927
      cash flow from financing activities of discontinued operations                                                 40         –4,865
      cash flow from financing activities                                                                     –270,256       –623,792
      effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents                                                 –382         10,753
      change in unrestricted cash and cash equivalents                                                          –21,659       400,124
      unrestricted cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period                                           1,194,437        794,313
      unrestricted cash and cash equivalents at end of period                                       6.10      1,172,778      1,194,437
       restricted cash and cash equivalents                                                         6.10          1,372          1,421
      cash and cash equivalents reported in the balance sheet                                       6.10      1,174,150      1,195,858

      *) including advance payments received




126                                                                    gea annual report 2015

                                                consolidated financial statements




consolidated statement of changes in equity
as of december 31, 2015


                                                                        accumulated other comprehensive income
                                                                                             result of                          equity
                                                                           translation   available-for-    result of    attributable to         non-
                               subscribed       capital      retained       of foreign   sale financial   cash flow    shareholders of    controlling
(eur thousand)                     capital     reserves      earnings      operations            assets     hedges      gea group ag        interests         total
balance at jan. 1, 2014
(192,495,476 shares)             520,376     1,218,073       627,612         –53,677              262          389          2,313,035         2,667     2,315,702
 income                                 –            –       320,483                –                –            –           320,483           143      320,626
 other comprehensive income             –            –       –95,504         110,992           –1,259       –5,391               8,838            64       8,902
total comprehensive income              –            –       224,979         110,992           –1,259       –5,391            329,321           207      329,528
dividend payment by
gea group aktiengesellschaft            –            –      –115,497                –                –            –          –115,497              –    –115,497
change in
non-controlling interests               –            –             –                –                –            –                  –          –67            –67
share-based payments                    –           21             –                –                –            –                 21             –            21
other changes                           –        –233              –                –                –            –               –233       –2,247       –2,480
balance at dec. 31, 2014
(192,495,476 shares)            520,376      1,217,861       737,094          57,315             –997       –5,002          2,526,647           560     2,527,207
 income                                 –            –       361,857                –                –            –           361,857              9     361,866
 other comprehensive income             –            –        –1,689          87,212              763        3,586             89,872              –      89,872
total comprehensive income              –            –       360,168          87,212              763        3,586            451,729              9     451,738
dividend payment by
gea group aktiengesellschaft            –            –      –134,747                –                –            –          –134,747              –    –134,747
change in
non-controlling interests               –            –             –                –                –            –                  –             1             1
share-based payments                    –            –             –                –                –            –                  –             –             –
other changes                           –            –             –                –                –            –                  –             –             –
balance at dec. 31, 2015
(192,495,476 shares)            520,376      1,217,861       962,515        144,527              –234       –1,416          2,843,629           570     2,844,199




                                                          gea annual report 2015                                                                        127

                          notes to the consolidated financial statements / reporting principles




      notes to the consolidated financial statements
      1.       reporting principles
      1.1      basis of presentation
      the accompanying consolidated financial statements include gea group aktiengesellschaft, düsseldorf/
      germany, and its subsidiaries, which together make up the gea group. gea group aktiengesellschaft is
      a listed corporation. the consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with the inter­
      national financial reporting standards (ifrss) and related interpretations issued by the international
      accounting standards board (iasb), as adopted by the eu in compliance with regulation (ec) no. 1606/2002
      of the european parliament and the council on the application of international accounting standards.
      the additional provisions of section 315a of the hgb were also complied with.

      the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in euros (eur). all amounts,
      including the prior-year figures, are presented in thousands of euros (eur thousand) except for the
      segment information. all amounts have been rounded using standard rounding rules. adding
      together individual amounts may therefore result in differences in the order of eur 1 thousand in
      certain cases.

      to improve the clarity of presentation, various items in the consolidated balance sheet and income
      statement have been aggregated and are explained accordingly in the notes. assets and liabilities are
      classified into current and non-current items. the income statement is prepared using the cost of
      sales method.

      the cash flow statement is prepared using the indirect method for cash flow from operating activities
      and the direct method for cash flow from investing and financing activities.
      the executive board of gea group aktiengesellschaft prepared these consolidated financial
      statements on february 26, 2016.

      1.2      accounting pronouncements applied for the first time
      the accounting standards presented below were applied by gea group for the first time in the year
      under review:

      improvements to ifrss 2011-2013 cycle – amendments under the iasb’s annual
      improvements project – published by the iasb in december 2013
      the improvements result from the iasb’s annual improvements process, which is designed to make
      minor amendments to standards and interpretations (annual improvements cycle.) they comprise
      minor amendments to a total of four standards.

      the initial application of the new requirements had no material effect on the consolidated financial
      statements.

      1.3      accounting pronouncements not yet applied
      the accounting standards and interpretations, as well as amendments to existing standards and
      interpretations presented below, were issued but not yet required to be applied to the preparation of
      the ifrs consolidated financial statements as of december 31, 2015.




128                                             gea annual report 2015

                    notes to the consolidated financial statements / reporting principles




unless otherwise stated, the new standards and interpretations have been endorsed by the eu.

gea group is currently examining the effects of the revised accounting standards on the consolidated
financial statements and will determine the date of initial application.

ifrs 9 “financial instruments” – issued by the iasb in july 2014
the iasb issued ifrs 9 “financial instruments” in november 2009, completing the first part of a
three-phase project to replace ias 39 “financial instruments: recognition and measurement.” the
new standard initially introduced uniform requirements on the measurement and classification of
financial instruments. ifrs 9 was reissued in october 2010 to incorporate new requirements on
accounting for financial liabilities. the requirements on accounting for financial liabilities and the
derecognition of financial assets and liabilities were largely carried over unchanged from ias 39. the
amendments to ifrs 9 and ifrs 7 published in december 2011 changed the mandatory effective date
of ifrs 9 and modified the relief from restating comparative periods and the associated disclosures
in ifrs 7. the version of ifrs 9 issued in november 2013 amended the standard to include a new
general hedge accounting model. in july 2014, the iasb issued the fourth and final version of ifrs 9,
which now also includes the new requirements on the recognition of impairment losses and limited
changes to the classification and measurement of financial assets. the final version superseded all
previous versions of ifrs 9.

the main new requirements of ifrs 9 on the recognition and measurement of financial instruments
are described below:

classification and measurement of financial assets
in the future, there will only be two classification and measurement categories for financial assets: at
amortized cost or at fair value. financial assets at amortized cost comprise those financial assets that
give rise solely to payments of principal and interest at specified dates and are also held within a
business model for managing financial assets whose objective is to hold those financial assets and
collect the associated contractual cash flows. all other financial assets are classified as at fair value.
under certain circumstances, a fair value option is available for financial assets falling under the first
category on initial recognition, as at present.

depending on the business model in which they are held, changes in financial assets belonging to the
fair value category must be recognized in profit or loss, or in other comprehensive income. there is
an optional right to measure certain equity instruments at fair value through other comprehensive
income; in this case, dividend income from these assets is recognized in profit or loss.

accounting for financial liabilities
with regard to accounting for financial liabilities, the most important change relates to the presentation
of changes in value of financial liabilities measured at fair value. depending on the business model in
which they are held, changes in financial assets belonging to the fair value category must be
recognized in profit or loss, or in other comprehensive income.

hedge accounting
the introduction of the new general hedge accounting model is intended to align hedge accounting
more closely with the risk management system. the new model opens up further options to apply
hedge accounting: in particular, groups of hedged items that meet the qualifying criteria individually,
as well as net positions and nil net positions, may now be designated in a hedging relationship.
generally, every financial instrument carried at fair value is suitable to be a hedged item.




                                          gea annual report 2015                                             129

                          notes to the consolidated financial statements / reporting principles




      new requirements are being introduced in relation to the effectiveness of hedging relationships;
      stipulation of the ranges for the measurement of effectiveness is being dispensed with, so that a
      retrospective effectiveness test no longer has to be performed. the prospective effectiveness test as
      well as recognition of any ineffectiveness continue to be required.

      a hedging relationship may only be terminated when the defined conditions for this are met; this
      means that it is mandatory to continue hedging relationships if risk management objectives remain
      unchanged.

      enhanced disclosures are required in relation to the risk management strategy, the effects of risk
      management on future cash flows, as well as the effects of hedge accounting on the financial
      statements.

      provided the conditions and qualitative characteristics continue to be met, hedging relationships do
      not have to be terminated as a result of the transition from ias 39 to ifrs 9. the existing
      requirements under ias 39 may also, as an option, continue to be applied under ifrs 9.

      new impairment model
      under the new model for determining impairment losses, not only incurred losses but also expected
      credit losses are recognized. expected credit losses are required to be recognized either in the amount
      of the “12-month expected credit losses” – the present value of the expected credit losses resulting
      from the default events possible in the 12 months following the reporting date – or in the amount of
      the lifetime expected credit losses. the recognition of lifetime expected credit losses is required if the
      credit risk of the financial instruments concerned has increased significantly since initial recognition.

      transition requirements
      subject to endorsement by the eu, ifrs 9 must be applied for fiscal years beginning on or after
      january 1, 2018; earlier application is permitted.

      ifrs 9 no longer requires restatement of prior-period figures upon initial application of ifrs 9.
      when an entity chooses to apply this exemption, additional disclosures are required under ifrs 7 to
      allow for assessment of the effects of the first-time application of ifrs 9.

      gea group is currently assessing what impact the application of ifrs 9 will have on the group’s net
      assets, financial position, and results of operations.




130                                             gea annual report 2015

                     notes to the consolidated financial statements / reporting principles




ifrs 14 “regulatory deferral accounts” – issued by the iasb in january 2014
there is currently no standard in ifrss that addresses the accounting for rate-regulated sales activities.
if rate regulation leads to a situation where expenditure in the current fiscal year has an effect on the
rates an entity may charge in future fiscal years, this may result in economic benefits or disadvantages
for the entity. in some countries, national gaap permits or requires that such economic benefits are
capitalized or deferred.

the new standard aims to improve the comparability between financial statements of entities that
engage in rate-regulated sales activities. ifrs 14 permits a first-time adopter of ifrss to continue to
present rate-regulated sales activities in accordance with its previous gaap accounting policies
applied on transition to ifrss. however, effects from the capitalization or deferral of economic
advantages must then be reported separately. as the iasb is currently carrying out a project on
accounting for rate-regulated activities, ifrs 14 represents an interim solution. subject to endorsement
by the eu, ifrs 14 must be applied by first-time adopters of ifrss from january 1, 2016; earlier
application is permitted. the new requirements do not affect the consolidated financial statements,
since application of ifrs 14 is mandatory only for first-time adopters of ifrss.

ifrs 15 “revenue from contracts with customers” – issued by the iasb in may 2014
the new standard pools the existing revenue recognition requirements and establishes a single
revenue recognition model. ifrs 15 applies to the recognition of contracts with customers for the
provision of services and the sale of goods and thus also covers the recognition of construction
contracts, which were previously governed by ias 11.

the new integrated revenue recognition model provides a five-step framework for determining the
amount of revenue and the timing of revenue recognition:

1. identification of the contract with the customer,
2. identification of separate performance obligations,
3. determination of the total transaction price,
4. allocation of the transaction price to the separate performance obligations,
5. recognition of revenue when a performance obligation is satisfied.

a performance obligation is deemed to be satisfied when control over the goods sold or services
provided is transferred to the customer. the accounting treatment differs depending on whether
control passes at a point in time or over time. if control is transferred to the customer over time,
revenue is recognized based on the stage of completion, provided this can be reasonably measured.

gea group is currently assessing the impact of the new requirements. at present, gea group does
not believe that the new requirements will have a significant impact on the group’s net assets,
financial position, and results of operations. however, the timing of revenue recognition may change
for certain orders.




                                           gea annual report 2015                                            131

                           notes to the consolidated financial statements / reporting principles




      in addition, ifrs 15 introduces extensive disclosures on revenue recognition.

      in september 2015, the iasb issued an amendment to ifrs 15 deferring the timing of initial
      application. subject to endorsement by the eu, ifrs 15 must, therefore, be applied for fiscal years
      beginning on or after january 1, 2018. earlier application of the requirements is permitted. initial
      application is retrospective, with certain practical expedients permitted under ifrs 15.

      ifrs 16 “leases” – issued by the iasb in january 2016
      the new lease accounting standard has introduced a single lessee accounting model in which all
      leases and the associated contractual rights and obligations are recorded on the balance sheet. this
      has eliminated the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases for a lessee, as so
      far required under ias 17.

      for every lease agreement, a liability corresponding to future lease payments must be recognized by the
      lessee, and a right-of-use asset capitalized at the present value of future lease payments, plus directly
      attributable costs. the lease payments include fixed payments, variable payments as long as these are
      index-based, expected payments based on residual value guarantees, and, where applicable, the exercise
      price of purchase options and penalties for the premature termination of lease agreements. during the
      term of the lease agreement, the lease liability is amortized using financial valuation methods in a similar
      way to that stipulated in the ias 17 regulations governing finance leases. the right-of-use asset, however,
      is depreciated, resulting in higher expenditure at the beginning of the term of a lease agreement
      compared with the previous regulations. accounting for short-term leases and leased assets of low value
      is simplified.
      for lessors, on the other hand, the regulations of the new standard resemble those of the previous
      standard ias 17. leases continue to be classified either as finance or operating leases. leases which
      essentially transfer all risks and rewards associated with ownership of the asset are classified as
      finance leases, while all other leases are classified as operating leases. the ias 17 criteria have been
      adopted by ifrs 16 for classification purposes.

      in addition, ifrs 16 contains a series of additional regulations regarding reporting and disclosures in
      the notes, as well as sale and leaseback transactions.

      the new release replaces the currently valid rules of ias 17 “leases” and the associated
      interpretations in ifric 4 “determining whether an arrangement contains a lease, sic 15 operating
      leases – incentives”, and sic 27 “evaluating the substance of transactions involving the legal form
      of a lease”.

      gea group is currently analyzing the implications of the new regulations, its current assumption being
      that the new provisions will result in an increase in total assets and liabilities, as well as higher ebitda.

      subject to endorsement by the eu, these new regulations must be applied for fiscal years beginning
      on or after january 1, 2019. earlier application is permitted, as long as ifrs 15 is also applied.




132                                              gea annual report 2015

                    notes to the consolidated financial statements / reporting principles




amendments to ifrs 10 and ias 28 – sale or contribution of assets between an investor
and its associate or joint venture – issued by the iasb in september 2014
the amendments address a known inconsistency between the requirements of ifrs 10 and those of
ias 28 (2011) in cases where assets are sold to or contributed by an associate or a joint venture. in the
future, the gain or loss resulting from such a transaction will only be recognized in full if the asset
sold or contributed is a business within the meaning of ifrs 3, regardless of whether the transaction
is structured as a share deal or an asset deal. however, if the assets do not constitute a business, any
gain or loss is recognized only in proportion to the investor’s interest in the associate or joint
venture.

gea group does not expect the implementation of the amendments to ifrs 10 and ias 28 to
materially affect its financial reporting.

in december 2015, the iasb issued an amendment to ifrs 15 deferring the timing of initial
application. the reason for the postponement is that the iasb wants to take another look at certain
transactions in the context of a research project on the equity method of accounting.
notwithstanding this deferral, early application of the amendments will be permitted once they have
been endorsed by the eu, which is still outstanding.

amendments to ias 1 “presentation of financial statements” – disclosure initiative – issued
by the iasb in december 2014
the amendments are attributable to an iasb initiative to improve the presentation and disclosure
requirements in existing standards. they clarify that disclosures are generally only required if their
content is not immaterial. in addition, they clarify how shares in the other comprehensive income of
equity-accounted companies should be presented in the statement of comprehensive income. the
amendments also extend the requirements on the aggregation and disaggregation of line items in the
balance sheet and statement of comprehensive income. lastly, they ease the rigid requirements
regarding the structure of the notes, so that these can now be structured in a way that takes better
account of their relevance for the individual company.

gea group does not expect the implementation of the amendments to ias 1 to materially affect its
financial reporting.

the amendments will be required to be applied for the first time in fiscal years beginning on or after
january 1, 2016; earlier application is permitted.

amendments to ias 7 “statement of cash flows” – issued by the iasb in january 2016
as part of its disclosure initiative, the international accounting standards board (iasb) has
published its amendments to ias 7 “statement of cash flows”.

these require a company to disclose changes to such financial liabilities, the inflows and outflows of
which appear in the cash flow statement under cash flow from financing activities. the associated
financial assets must also be included in the disclosures (e.g. financial assets from hedging
transactions). in particular, cash-effective changes, changes resulting from the purchase or sale of
companies, exchange-rate related changes, and changes in the fair value of assets must be reported.
the proposed format for the corresponding disclosures is a reconciliation between the opening and
closing balances.




                                          gea annual report 2015                                            133

                           notes to the consolidated financial statements / reporting principles




      gea group does not expect the implementation of the amendments to ias 7 to materially affect its
      financial reporting.

      subject to their endorsement by the eu, the amendments will be required to be applied for the first
      time in fiscal years beginning on or after january 1, 2017; earlier application is permitted. no comparative
      figures from the previous year have to be provided in the year when the regulations are first applied.

      amendments to ias 12 “income taxes” – recognition of deferred tax assets
      for unrealized losses – issued by the iasb in january 2016
      the amendments made to ias 12 serve to clarify that write-downs to a lower market value of debt
      instruments measured at fair value resulting from a change in the market interest rate can give rise
      to deductible temporary differences. this expressly also applies to cases where the loss is not realized
      and in future, if held to maturity, will be reversed, as the debt instrument is amortized at the notional
      value. it does not matter whether or not the owner expects to hold the debt instrument until maturity,
      thereby realizing its full notional value.

      in this context, it is also clarified that all deductible temporary differences must be assessed as a
      whole to establish whether sufficient taxable income can be generated in future in order to be able to
      use and recognize them. an independent assessment may only be made if and to the extent that the
      tax legislation distinguishes between different types of taxable profits. in addition, ias 12 has added
      new rules and examples regarding the assessment of future taxable income for the accounting of
      deferred tax assets.

      gea group does not expect the implementation of the amendments to ias 12 to materially affect its
      financial reporting.

      subject to their endorsement by the eu, the amendments will be required to be applied retrospectively
      for fiscal years beginning on or after january 1, 2017; earlier application is permitted. when the
      amendments are initially applied, the individual equity components affected by the change will not
      be required to be adjusted in the opening balance of the earliest period shown. if this simplification
      is used, all changes in equity can be recorded in the revenue reserves instead.

      amendments to ias 19 “employee benefits” – “defined benefit plans: employee
      contributions” – issued by the iasb in november 2013
      the amendments concern requirements relating to contributions from employees or third parties
      that are linked to service and clarify the corresponding requirements for attributing such contributions
      to periods of service. in addition, the accounting for contributions that are independent of the
      number of years of service has been simplified.

      gea group does not expect the implementation of the amendments to ias 19 to materially affect its
      financial reporting.

      the amendments will be required to be applied retrospectively for the first time in fiscal years
      beginning on or after february 1, 2015; earlier application is permitted.




134                                              gea annual report 2015

                   notes to the consolidated financial statements / reporting principles




improvements to ifrss 2010-2012 cycle – amendments under the iasb’s annual
improvements project – published by the iasb in december 2013
the improvements result from the iasb’s annual improvements process, which is designed to make
minor amendments to standards and interpretations. they comprise minor amendments to a total of
seven standards.

the amendments are not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated financial
statements.

the improvements to the ifrss are required to be applied for fiscal years beginning on or after
february 1, 2015, whereby initial application will be mainly prospective; earlier application is
permitted.

improvements to ifrss 2012 – 2014 cycle – amendments under the iasb’s annual
improvements project – published by the iasb in september 2014
the improvements result from the iasb’s annual improvements process, which is designed to make
minor amendments to standards and interpretations. they comprise minor amendments to a total of
four standards.

gea group does not expect the implementation of the amendments to materially affect its financial
reporting.

the improvements are required to be applied for fiscal years beginning on or after january 1, 2016,
whereby initial application will be mainly prospective; earlier application is permitted.




                                         gea annual report 2015                                       135

                                 notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




      2.            accounting policies
      2.1           description of accounting policies

      basis of consolidation
      gea group’s consolidated financial statements include all significant companies that gea group
      directly or indirectly holds the majority of voting rights or otherwise directly or indirectly controls by
      holding, for example based on contractual arrangements. control exists when gea group is exposed,
      or has rights, to variable returns from involvement with the investee on the one hand, and has the
      ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee on the other. subsidiaries are
      consolidated from the date on which the group obtains control over them. they are deconsolidated
      from the date on which control is lost.

      acquired subsidiaries are accounted for using the purchase method. the consideration paid is
      measured on the basis of the fair value of the assets received, the liabilities assumed to the seller, and
      the equity instruments issued at the transaction date. the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities
      and contingent liabilities assumed in the business combination are recognized at their fair value at
      the transaction date, irrespective of any noncontrolling interests. any contingent consideration
      agreed is recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. subsequent changes in fair value are
      recognized in profit or loss.

      the excess of cost over the share of the fair value of the subsidiary’s net assets acquired is recognized
      as goodwill. if, after a further examination, cost is lower than the share of the fair value of the
      subsidiary’s acquired net assets measured at fair value, the difference is recognized as a gain in profit
      or loss.

      intragroup receivables, liabilities, income, and expenses are eliminated, as are cash flows and profits
      and losses from intragroup transactions.

      if consolidated subsidiaries have a different reporting date to the parent, they are included on the
      basis of interim financial statements as of december 31, 2015.

      the consolidated group changed as follows in fiscal year 2015:


      number of companies                                                                               2015   2014
      consolidated group as of january 1                                                                216    287
       german companies (including gea group ag)                                                         35     49
       foreign companies                                                                                181    238
      initial consolidation                                                                              11      3
      merger                                                                                              –3     –5
      liquidation                                                                                         –1     –3
      sale                                                                                                0     –65
      deconsolidation                                                                                     –1     –1
      consolidated group as of december 31                                                              222    216
       german companies (including gea group ag)                                                         36     35
       foreign companies                                                                                186    181




136                                                    gea annual report 2015

                     notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




a total of 46 subsidiaries (previous year: 51) were not consolidated since their effect on the group’s
net assets, financial position, and results of operations is not material even when viewed in the
aggregate. their consolidated revenue amounts to 0.3 percent (previous year: 0.2 percent) of the
group’s aggregate consolidated revenue, while their earnings account for –0.2 percent (previous
year: 1.1 percent) of recognized earnings before tax of the complete group, and their equity accounts
for 0.8 percent (previous year: 1.0 percent) of consolidated equity. the subsidiaries are measured at
cost and recognized as non-current other financial assets, as their fair value cannot be determined
with sufficient certainty.

a complete list of all subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures can be found in section 12.4.

changes in ownership interest
changes in gea group’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in obtaining or losing
control are equity transactions. the carrying amounts of controlling and noncontrolling interests
must be adjusted in such way that they reflect the changes in ownership interests in the subsidiaries.
any difference between the amount by which the noncontrolling interests are adjusted and the fair
value of the consideration paid or received must be recognized directly in equity, and attributed to
the owners of gea group.

investments in associates and joint ventures
entities over which a group company can exercise significant influence, i.e. it can participate in the
investee’s financial and operating policy decisions, are accounted for as associates. this generally relates
to companies in which gea group directly or indirectly holds 20 to 50 percent of the voting rights.

joint ventures are joint arrangements whereby the parties involved have joint control over the
arrangement and rights to its net assets. joint control exists when decisions about the relevant
activities of the joint arrangement require the unanimous consent of gea group and the other
parties that collectively control the arrangement.

associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method at the group’s share of
adjusted equity. they are initially recognized at cost. any goodwill arising on acquisition is included
in the carrying amount of the investment.

the group’s share of the profit or loss of equity-accounted investments is recognized and presented
separately in the income statement. the group’s share of income and expenses recognized outside
profit or loss is reported directly in other comprehensive income. if the group’s share of an associate’s
or joint venture’s loss exceeds the carrying amount of the net investment in the associate or joint
venture, no further losses are recognized.

where necessary, the accounting policies of associates and joint ventures are adjusted to comply with
uniform group accounting principles.
as of the reporting date, two investments in associates (previous year: two) and six investments in
joint ventures (previous year: six) were accounted for using the equity method.




                                           gea annual report 2015                                              137

                           notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




      joint operations
      joint operations are joint arrangements whereby the parties involved have joint control over the
      arrangement and rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
      joint control exists when decisions about the relevant activities of the joint arrangement require the
      unanimous consent of gea group and the other parties that collectively control the arrangement.

      the assets, liabilities, income, and expenses of joint operations are accounted for in proportion to
      gea group’s interest in them in accordance with the relevant ifrss.

      currency translation
      the group companies prepare their annual financial statements on the basis of their respective
      functional currencies.

      foreign currency transactions entered into by companies included in the consolidated financial
      statements are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate prevailing at the
      transaction date. monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the applicable exchange rate at each
      reporting date. the exchange rate gains and losses resulting from these items are generally reported
      in the income statement under other income or expenses.

      all financial statements of companies whose functional currencies differ from the reporting currency are
      translated into the reporting currency used in gea group’s consolidated financial statements. the assets
      and liabilities of the companies included in the consolidated financial statements are translated at the
      middle rates prevailing at the reporting date. the income statements of these companies are translated at
      the average rates for the period under review. if these average rates are not a reasonable approximation
      of the actual transaction rates, the income statements are translated at the relevant transaction rates. any
      translation differences are reported in equity under other comprehensive income and adjusted.

      goodwill from the acquisition of foreign subsidiaries is translated at the closing rate as an asset
      attributable to these companies.

      property, plant and equipment
      items of property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less cumulative depreciation and
      impairment losses, plus reversals of impairment losses.

      expenses for major regular maintenance are amortized over the remaining useful life of the asset
      concerned or over the period to the next maintenance date.

      the carrying amount of items of property, plant, and equipment is reviewed if it is likely to have
      been impaired by events or changes in circumstances. an impairment test is performed by
      comparing the asset’s carrying amount with its recoverable amount. the recoverable amount is
      defined as the higher of internal value in use and fair value less costs to sell. fair value is primarily
      determined on the basis of the current local market price for used machinery or commercial real
      estate. if the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recognized.




138                                              gea annual report 2015

                     notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




to assess impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which separate cash flows can be
identified. if the reason for the impairment subsequently ceases to apply, the impairment loss is
reversed up to a maximum of historical cost, net of accumulated depreciation.

leases
leases are agreements that grant the right to use an asset for a defined period in return for a payment.
leases are accounted for as finance leases if substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to using the
leased asset, and therefore beneficial ownership, are attributable to the lessee. as a result, the gea group
companies that, as lessees, bear substantially all the risks and rewards associated with the leased asset,
recognize the asset at the lower of fair value or the present value of minimum lease payments, and
depreciate the asset in subsequent periods over the shorter of the lease term or the asset’s estimated
useful life. a corresponding liability is recognized, which is amortized in the following periods using the
effective interest method. payments to the lessor are divided into an interest and a principal repayment
element, with the interest element being recognized in profit or loss over the lease term as a continuous
interest payment on the residual lease liability. all other leases under which gea group is a lessee are
treated as operating leases. in these cases, the lease payments are recognized as an expense using the
straight-line method.

lease transactions under which gea group companies are the lessor and substantially all the risks and
rewards associated with the leased asset are transferred to the lessee are accounted for as sales and
financing business. a receivable is reported in the amount of the net investment under the lease. the
interest income subsequently generated is recognized in profit or loss. all other lease transactions under
which the group is the lessor are treated as operating leases. in this case, the asset leased for use remains
on the balance sheet and is depreciated. the lease payments are recognized as income using the straight-
line method over the term of the lease.

various companies included in the consolidated financial statements have sold and leased back items
of property, plant and equipment in the past. depending on the allocation of risk, these sale and
leaseback transactions resulted in a finance lease or an operating lease. in the case of operating
leases, the entire gain was recognized immediately if the asset was sold at fair value. if the asset was
sold above its fair value, the difference between the selling price and fair value was deferred and
recognized over the lease term.

investment property
property that is held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation is reported as investment property. in the
case of property that is held partly to earn rentals and partly to produce or supply goods or services or
for administrative purposes, the entire property is classified as investment property if the own use
proportion is insignificant. this is assumed to be the case if the proportion is below 10 percent.




                                           gea annual report 2015                                               139

                           notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




      cost is depreciated using the straight-line method over a period of between 10 and 50 years. the same
      measurement method is applied as for property, plant, and equipment.

      goodwill
      goodwill arising from business combinations is recognized as an intangible asset.

      goodwill is tested for impairment at segment level at least once a year at the end of the fiscal year,
      and if any of the cash-generating units with goodwill are showing signs of impairment. operating
      segments in the form of the business areas were identified as cash-generating units with goodwill.
      for the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount of a business area is compared with
      its carrying amount including the goodwill. the recoverable amount corresponds to the higher of
      internal value in use and fair value less costs to sell. fair value less costs to sell is the measure for the
      impairment of business units classified as “held for sale.” if the carrying amount of the business
      area’s assets exceeds the recoverable amount, an impairment loss in the amount of the difference is
      recognized in profit or loss.

      an impairment loss initially reduces the carrying amount of goodwill. any amount exceeding
      goodwill is allocated proportionately to the carrying amounts of non-current nonfinancial assets.

      the value in use of the business units classified as continuing operations is calculated annually at the
      end of the fiscal year using the discounted cash flow method. it is only necessary to estimate a selling
      price for the business units classified as continuing operations if the value in use is less than the
      carrying amount.

      other intangible assets
      other intangible assets include both internally generated and purchased assets. internally generated
      intangible assets comprise capitalized development costs. in addition to contract-based rights,
      purchased intangible assets mainly contain technologies, brand names, and customer relationships.
      technologies, brand names, and customer relationships are usually acquired in connection with
      takeovers. internally generated and purchased intangible assets are recognized at cost.

      if the useful life of an intangible asset can be determined, the asset is amortized on a straight-line
      basis over its useful life. intangible assets whose useful life cannot be determined are recognized at
      cost.

      the carrying amount of an intangible asset is reviewed if it is likely to have been impaired by events
      or changes in circumstances. intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are tested for impairment
      at least once a year. this requires the recoverable amount of the assets to be determined. the recoverable
      amount corresponds to the higher of internal value in use and fair value less costs to sell. if the
      carrying amount is higher than the recoverable amount, the asset is written down to the recoverable
      amount. previously recognized impairment losses are reversed if the reasons for the impairment no
      longer apply. impairment losses are reversed up to a maximum of the amortized historical cost.




140                                              gea annual report 2015

                    notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




indefinite-lived intangible assets are also examined each year to determine whether the classification
of the asset as indefinite-lived can be retained. any change to a finite useful life is applied
prospectively.

other financial assets
other financial assets include investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries and other equity investments,
other securities, financial receivables (except trade receivables), and derivative financial instruments.

shares in unconsolidated subsidiaries and other equity investments are allocated to the “available-
for-sale financial assets” measurement category. they are measured at cost because the shares in
these corporations are not traded in an active market and their fair value cannot be reliably
measured. this is due to the significant margin of fluctuation for fair value measurement; the
probabilities of the various estimates cannot be reliably determined within the margin of fluctuation.
a reliable fair value can only be determined during sale negotiations. the group does not intend to
sell these financial assets.

securitized debt instruments that are intended to be held to maturity are allocated to the “held-to-
maturity investments” measurement category and measured accordingly at amortized cost using the
effective interest method. all other securities are measured at fair value and any fluctuations in value
are recognized directly in other comprehensive income.

financial receivables are allocated to the “loans and receivables” measurement category and
measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method.

derivative financial instruments are used exclusively for hedging purposes, in particular to hedge
currency risk and to mitigate the risk of interest rate fluctuations resulting from financing
transactions. they are always carried at fair value. if derivative financial instruments are not
included in a documented hedging relationship, they are allocated to the “financial assets at fair value
through profit or loss” measurement category, and their fair value changes are recognized in the
income statement. if the derivative financial instruments included in a recognized hedging
relationship are used to hedge future cash flows, the fair value fluctuations are recognized in other
comprehensive income.

embedded financial derivatives are separated from their host contracts if certain qualifying criteria
relating to their recognition and measurement are met.

financial assets are recognized as soon as gea group has received a cash payment or it has the right
to receive cash flows. in the case of regular way purchases of non-derivative financial assets, the
settlement date, i.e. the delivery date of the financial assets, is decisive. assets are derecognized as
soon as the right to receive cash payments or other financial assets expires as a result of payment,
waiver, statutory limitation, offsetting, or any other factor, or the right is transferred to another
person, with the risks passing in full to the purchaser. in the case of regular way sales of non-
derivative financial assets, the settlement date is taken to be the date of derecognition, in line with
the principle used for recognition.

items are originally recognized at fair value or, in the case of financial assets not measured at fair
value, including directly attributable transaction costs.

financial assets or groups of financial assets are tested for indications of impairment at each reporting
date. impairment losses are recognized in the income statement. financial assets are impaired if,




                                          gea annual report 2015                                            141

                          notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




      following one or more events that occurred after initial recognition of the asset, there is objective
      evidence that the expected future cash flows have declined. objective evidence of impairment may be,
      for example, significant financial difficulties of the debtor or payment default. in the case of financial
      assets measured at amortized cost (e.g., unquoted equity instruments), the impairment loss corresponds
      to the difference between the carrying amount of the financial instrument and the present value of the
      future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.

      if the reasons for impairment no longer apply, impairment losses on financial assets – with the
      exception of equity instruments – are reversed to income up to the amount of the amortized cost that
      would have applied if no impairment loss had been charged.

      recognized hedging relationships (hedge accounting)
      at the time they are entered into, derivative financial instruments that are included in a recognized
      hedging relationship are designated either as a hedge against changes in the fair value of assets,
      liabilities, or firm commitments (fair value hedge) or as a hedge of future cash flows in connection
      with assets and liabilities (cash flow hedge).

      in the case of an effective hedge of the risk of a change in fair value, the change in the fair value of
      both the derivative and the hedged item is recognized in the income statement. changes in fair value
      offset each other in a perfect hedge. gea group does not currently apply hedge accounting for fair
      value hedges.

      if derivatives are used to hedge future cash flows, the effective portion of the change in the
      derivative’s fair value is recognized in other comprehensive income. the ineffective portion of the
      change in fair value is reported as a gain or loss. the item recognized in other comprehensive income
      arising from the effective portion of the change in fair value is recognized in the income statement as
      soon as the hedged item is settled. if settlement of the hedged item leads to the recognition of a
      nonfinancial asset, the changes in value previously recognized in other comprehensive income are
      offset against the cost of the nonfinancial asset. if, contrary to previous assumptions, the hedged
      transaction is not executed, the changes in value previously recognized in equity are reversed directly
      to profit or loss.

      the group predominantly uses cash flow hedges to hedge interest rate risk. especially with regard to
      currency translation risk, gea group also enters into hedging transactions in accordance with its risk
      management principles that offer economic hedges of existing risks, but do not meet the strict hedge
      accounting requirements of ias 39. currency forwards that are used to hedge currency risk arising
      from monetary assets and liabilities are not aggregated into a recognized hedging relationship.
      effects arising from the translation of balance sheet items that are recognized in the income
      statement are largely offset by changes in the fair values of currency forwards that are also
      recognized in the income statement.




142                                             gea annual report 2015

                    notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




deferred taxes
deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for all temporary differences between the carrying
amounts in the respective national tax accounts and those in the ifrs financial statements that are
included in the consolidated financial statements. deferred tax assets are also recognized for tax loss
carryforwards. deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences and tax loss
carryforwards are recognized only to the extent that there is likely to be sufficient taxable income
available in future.

deferred tax liabilities are not recognized on taxable temporary differences arising from investments
in subsidiaries, associates, or joint ventures as long as the reversal of temporary differences is
unlikely in the foreseeable future.

inventories
inventories are recognized at the lower of cost and net realizable value. acquisition cost is calculated
at average cost or using the first-in, first-out (fifo) method. production cost includes direct costs plus
materials and production overheads, depreciation, and production-related administrative costs. net
realizable value is calculated as the estimated sale proceeds less costs incurred until completion, and
selling expenses. previously recognized impairment losses must be reversed if the reasons for the
impairment no longer apply. impairment losses are reversed up to a maximum of the amortized
historical cost.

trade receivables
trade receivables include no interest component and are recognized in the balance sheet at their
principal amount less appropriate allowances for bad debts.

trade receivables that are sold to financial services companies under factoring agreements are
derecognized once substantially all the risks and rewards have been transferred to the financial
services company.

construction contracts
receivables and revenues from construction contracts are recognized using the percentage of
completion (poc) method.

the percentage of completion is determined using the cost-to-cost method, which is derived from the
ratio of contract costs incurred to the total estimated contract costs. contracts are measured at
production cost plus a profit in proportion to the stage of completion. losses on construction
contracts are immediately recognized in full in the fiscal year in which they are identified, regardless
of the stage of completion. if the contract costs incurred and the gains or losses recognized exceed
the progress billings, the excess amount is capitalized and reported under “trade receivables”. if the
progress payments received exceed the capitalized costs and recognized gains or losses at the
reporting date, they are reported as a liability under “other liabilities.” advance payments received on
construction contracts are reported as a liability under the same item.

if the contract margin cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognized only in the amount of the
contract costs incurred (zero-profit method). a profit is only recognized once the contract margin can
be estimated reliably.




                                          gea annual report 2015                                             143

                           notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




      payments for differences in the overall contract, claims, and premiums are included in the contract
      revenue insofar as these will probably result in revenue that is capable of being estimated reliably.

      cash and cash equivalents
      cash and cash equivalents comprise cash, demand deposits, and financial assets that can be converted
      into cash at any time and that are subject to only slight fluctuations in value. they are recognized at
      fair value.

      assets held for sale, liabilities held for sale, and discontinued operations
      non-current assets or groups of assets classified as “held for sale” within the meaning of ifrs 5 are
      recognized at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. classification as “held for
      sale” is made when the carrying amount of a non-current asset or disposal group will be recovered
      principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use, and the criteria defined in
      ifrs 5 have been met overall. the corresponding assets as well as the liabilities of a disposal group
      are reported separately in the balance sheet as “assets held for sale” and “liabilities held for sale.” on
      initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets or assets and liabilities of disposal groups are
      first measured in accordance with the applicable ifrss. they are measured at the lower of their
      carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell, with disposal groups being measured as a whole. as
      the carrying amount of held-for-sale depreciable assets is principally realized by the disposal rather
      than the use of these assets, they are no longer depreciated once they have been reclassified.

      if a disposal group represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operation, it
      qualifies as a discontinued operation. the results of discontinued operations are reported separately
      in the income statement as profit or loss after tax from discontinued operations. in addition, the
      prior-year comparatives are adjusted in the income statement so that the results of these operations
      are also reported under discontinued operations. cash flows from discontinued operations are
      reported separately in the cash flow statement; in this case as well the prior-year comparatives are
      adjusted accordingly. revenue and expenditures from intragroup transactions are taken into account
      when presenting results from discontinued operations if they will continue to arise after the disposal
      of a discontinued operation.

      as a general principle, the disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements relate to
      the assets or liabilities recognized in the corresponding line items and to continuing operations.
      where disclosures relate to gea group including assets held for sale, as well as the associated
      liabilities, and discontinued operations, this is indicated either by a statement that the disclosures
      refer to the complete group, or by another comment.




144                                              gea annual report 2015

                    notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




subscribed capital
ordinary shares are classified as equity. treasury shares are deducted from the equity attributable to
the shareholders of gea group aktiengesellschaft.

obligations under pension plans
obligations under pension plans relate to post-employment benefit obligations. defined benefit
obligations are calculated using the projected unit credit method. the present value of these
obligations reflects expected future salary and pension trends, since the entitlements earnable in the
period up to the retirement age depend on these. claims under supplementary healthcare benefit
insurance are included in the actuarial measurement of assumptions made in respect of healthcare
cost trends. the pension obligations are measured on the basis of actuarial reports by independent
actuaries.

in order to provide these pension benefits, the company in some cases holds financial assets in long-
term funds outside gea group and qualifying insurance policies. insofar as the entitlements are
funded by such external assets (plan assets), their fair value is offset against the present value of the
defined benefit obligation. the resulting balance is reported under non-current employee benefit
obligations or other non-current financial assets (net carrying amount).

actuarial gains and losses from the remeasurement of the net carrying amount are recognized in
other comprehensive income in the year in which they arise and reported in retained earnings after
adjustment for tax effects. this also applies to the recognition of the difference between the actual
returns on plan assets and the returns calculated using the discount factor. costs from unwinding the
discount on the net carrying amount are recognized in interest expenses; income is recognized in
interest income. current and past service cost for the period, as well as gains and losses from
settlements, are recognized in the relevant function costs.

other employee benefit obligations
other employee benefit obligations comprise other long-term benefits and all short-term benefits.
short-term employee benefit obligations are expected to be settled in full no more than 12 months
after completion of the service rendered. they include wages, salaries, social insurance contributions,
paid vacation, and profit-sharing arrangements. they are recognized as an expense at the same time
as the work is remunerated. any expenditure in excess of the payments already made is reported as a
deferred liability at the reporting date. other long-term employee benefits, such as jubilee payments
or partial retirement arrangements, are recognized at the actuarial present value of the obligation at
the reporting date. securities are pledged to the beneficiaries to protect vested partial retirement
credits against the employer’s insolvency. the fair value of these securities is offset against the
corresponding liability.

also reported under other employee benefit obligations are liabilities in respect of severance
payments and redundancy plans resulting from, among other things, obligations in connection with
restructuring provisions.




                                          gea annual report 2015                                            145

                          notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




      provisions
      provisions for uncertain liabilities are recognized where there is a legal or constructive obligation to
      a third party, a future outflow of resources is likely, and the expected settlement value can be
      estimated reliably. the present value of the settlement amount is recognized if the time value of
      money is material. amounts are discounted at the market rates for the appropriate maturity and
      currency. discount unwinding costs are reported in interest expense.

      the cost at the time when reserve is recognized is reported in cost of sales when warranty of
      provisions are recognized. in all other cases, provisions are recognized when the product is accepted.
      the provision is measured on the basis of both the warranty cost actually incurred in the past and on
      the evaluated overall risk inherent in the system or product. provisions are also recognized if a claim
      is made under a warranty and a loss is likely. recourse claims against suppliers are capitalized if their
      services are subject to a warranty and it is highly likely that the claim can be enforced.

      provisions for expected losses from onerous contracts are recognized if the unavoidable costs of
      meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received
      under it. the unavoidable costs also include the unavoidable overheads needed to meet the
      obligations.

      financial liabilities
      financial liabilities comprise bonds, bank loans, and liabilities under finance leases. initial
      recognition is at fair value, less transaction costs incurred. they are subsequently measured at
      amortized cost using the effective interest method. liabilities under finance leases are initially
      measured at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of minimum lease
      payments.

      other liabilities
      the recognition and subsequent measurement of other liabilities is the same as for financial
      liabilities, with the exception of advance payments and the gross amount due to customers for
      contract work. advance payments are stated at their principal amount. please see the information
      provided on the recognition of construction contracts for the measurement of the gross amount due
      to customers for contract work.




146                                             gea annual report 2015

                    notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




trade payables
trade payables also include liabilities for goods received or services rendered that have not yet been
invoiced, as there is only slight uncertainty as to the amount of the liability. trade payables are
recognized at fair value. this corresponds to the settlement amount in the case of liabilities due
within one year.

revenue recognition
trade receivables that are sold to financial services companies under factoring agreements are
derecognized once substantially all the risks and rewards have been transferred to the financial
services company. this normally occurs when the goods are handed over to the customer. revenue
from services is recognized when the service is rendered. revenue is measured at the fair value of the
consideration received or to be received. customer bonuses, discounts, or rebates reduce the amount
of revenue recognized.

revenue from construction contracts is generally recognized using the percentage-of-completion
method under which revenue is recognized in accordance with the stage of completion. the
percentage of completion is determined using the cost-to-cost method, which is derived from the
ratio of contract costs incurred to the total estimated contract costs. contract costs include direct
costs plus materials and construction overheads, depreciation, production-related administrative
costs, and such other costs that are specifically chargeable to the customer under the terms of the
contract. where a construction contract is performed over a long period and where the contract is
largely financed by gea group, contract costs also include directly attributable borrowing costs.
conversely, income from the investment of advance payments received is offset against contract costs
where this has a material influence on the contract margin. adjustments are made for variations in
contract work, claims, and incentive payments insofar as these will probably result in revenue that is
capable of being reliably estimated.

in line with the percentage of completion method, construction contracts are measured as the
contract costs incurred as of the reporting date plus the profit attributable to the proportion of work
completed. revenue recognized is reported under trade payables, less progress billings. if the
outcome of a construction contract cannot be reliably estimated, the probable recoverable revenue is
recognized up to the amount of the costs incurred. contract costs are recognized as an expense in the
period in which they are incurred. if it is foreseeable that the total contract costs will exceed the
contract revenue, the expected loss is recognized immediately as an expense.

interest income is recognized ratably over the remaining maturity based on the effective interest rate
and the amount of the remaining receivable. dividend income on equity instruments is recognized if
the right to receive payment is based on legally assertable claims.

revenue from royalties is recognized in the period in which it arises in accordance with the
underlying contracts.




                                          gea annual report 2015                                          147

                          notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




      share-based payment
      gea group has a share-based payment program under which selected managers are granted
      performance shares. the fair value of these rights is calculated at the grant date and allocated as an
      expense over the vesting period using the straight-line method; a corresponding provision is
      recognized. the provision is remeasured at each reporting date and at the payment date. furthermore,
      in fiscal years 2010 and 2011, part of the bonuses earned by executive board members was converted
      into phantom shares. the entitlement from phantom shares is measured at the current share price at
      the reporting date. in fiscal year 2012, a long-term share price component was introduced as part of the
      revision of the variable remuneration system for executive board members. payment from this
      remuneration component is dependent on the performance of gea shares compared with a bench­
      mark index. the entitlement from the long-term share price component is measured at fair value at
      the reporting date. changes in the fair value of the provision for share-based payment programs are
      recognized as interest expense or income (see section 7.3.4).

      in addition, one group company grants its employees options on shares of the company via a trustee.
      the cost of this share-based payment is estimated at the grant date and amortized using the straight-
      line method up to the exercise date (see section 7.1).

      research and development
      research expenditures are recognized immediately as an expense. development costs that are
      designed to significantly enhance a product or process are capitalized if completion of the product or
      process is technically and economically feasible, the development is marketable, the expenditures can
      be measured reliably, and adequate resources are available to complete the development project. all
      other development expenditures are recognized immediately as expenses. capitalized development
      expenditures for completed projects are reported at cost less cumulative amortization and impairment
      losses. capitalized development costs for intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for
      impairment once a year.

      development costs that are required under construction contracts are capitalized as part of the cost
      of the asset.

      government grants
      government grants are recognized at fair value provided that the group meets the conditions
      necessary to receive the grant. government grants to cover expenses are recognized over the period
      in which the costs for which the grants were awarded are incurred. government grants for capital
      expenditure are deducted from the cost of purchasing the corresponding asset.




148                                             gea annual report 2015

                     notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




2.2      estimates and management judgment
preparation of financial statements requires management to make certain estimates and exercise
judgment that may affect the company’s assets, liabilities, provisions, and deferred tax assets and
liabilities, as well as its income and expenses and contingent liabilities.

factors that may cause amounts to fall below estimates might include a deterioration in the global
economy, movements in exchange rates and interest rates, as well as material litigation and changes
in environmental or other legislation. production errors, the loss of key customers, and rising
borrowing costs may also adversely affect the group’s future performance.

the recognition and measurement of the following assets and liabilities are in some cases based on
management judgment. all assumptions represent the best of management’s knowledge and belief in
order to convey a true and fair view of the company’s net assets, financial position, and results of
operations. if actual circumstances subsequently differ from those forecast, this will affect the
recognition and measurement of assets and liabilities. depending on the item concerned, earnings
may also be affected.

basis of consolidation
management judgment was applied in defining the basis of consolidation (see section 2.1),
particularly with regard to assessing which subsidiaries to exclude from the consolidated financial
statements on the basis of materiality.

acquisitions
goodwill is reported in the balance sheet as a result of acquisitions. when an acquired company is
initially consolidated, all its identifiable assets, liabilities, and contingent liabilities are recognized at
their acquisition-date fair value. a basic problem is estimating these fair values. as a rule, land and
buildings are measured on the basis of independent appraisals. if intangible assets are identified,
their fair values are calculated using an appropriate measurement method. these measurements are
made on the basis of assumptions by management with respect to the future value of the relevant
assets and the discount rate. obligations for contingent consideration are recognized on the basis of
the current planning.

goodwill
the group tests goodwill for impairment annually. the recoverable amounts calculated for this
purpose for segments classified as continuing operations are determined based on value in use. value
in use is calculated using assumptions by management. this also applies to the calculation performed
in the fiscal year of the re-allocation of goodwill attributable to the former gea refrigeration
technologies segment to the two business areas, solutions and equipment on the basis of the
relative values (see section 6.3).




                                            gea annual report 2015                                               149

                           notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




      taxes
      gea group operates in a large number of countries and is therefore subject to different tax jurisdictions.
      calculating tax liabilities requires management to make various estimates. management believes that it
      has made a reasonable estimate of tax uncertainties. however, no assurance can be given that the actual
      outcome of these uncertainties will correspond to the estimates made. any deviations may have an
      impact on the level of tax liabilities or deferred taxes in the year of the decision.

      when assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets, management judges the extent to which
      realization of the deferred tax assets is sufficiently likely. the question of whether the deferred tax
      assets can actually be realized depends on whether sufficient future taxable income can be generated
      against which the temporary differences or tax loss carryforwards can be offset. management
      therefore analyzes the times at which the deferred tax liabilities reverse, and expected future taxable
      income. management forecasts whether deferred tax assets can be realized on the basis of expected
      future taxable income. deferred tax assets decline if the estimate of planned taxable income
      decreases, if tax benefits available as a result of tax strategies are reduced, or the amount or timing of
      future tax benefits is restricted by changes in the law (see section 8.8).

      restructuring provisions
      restructuring provisions are recognized as soon as there is a constructive obligation to carry out
      restructuring measures, from having informed the parties affected about the restructuring plan. in
      assessing whether the criteria for recognition have been met, the management must make certain
      assumptions as to whether the announcement has given rise to justified expectations among the
      parties affected that the company will carry out the restructuring, and whether major changes to the
      restructuring plan are anticipated.

      in order to determine the amount of the restructuring provisions, management must, above all,
      estimate the amount of the expected severance payments. to this end, the management needs to
      make assumptions with regard to the wage structure and length of service of the employees affected
      by the cuts, as well as to the manner in which the downsizing program is to be implemented (e.g.
      voluntary schemes, partial retirement, redundancy packages).

      measurement of assets held for sale, liabilities associated with assets held for sale, and
      classification of operations as discontinued
      assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount
      and fair value less costs to sell. assumptions by management are taken into account when
      determining fair value less costs to sell. the classification as held for sale or the classification of
      activities as attributable to discontinued operations also require estimates by management. these
      estimates relate in particular to the question of whether the carrying amount of a non-current asset
      or a disposal group will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through
      continuing use, and whether the criteria set out under ifrs 5 have been met overall.




150                                              gea annual report 2015

                     notes to the consolidated financial statements / accounting policies




provisions and contingent liabilities
changes in estimates of the probability of a present obligation or of an outflow of resources
embodying economic benefits could mean that items previously classified as contingent liabilities
must be reported as provisions, or that the amount of provisions must be adjusted (see section 6.2).
this also applies in particular to environmental obligations.

obligations under pension plans
the present value of pension obligations depends on actuarial assumptions. these assumptions
comprise discount rates, expected wage and salary increases, as well as the pension increase rate and
mortality rates. these assumptions could differ significantly from actual future outcomes as a result
of changes in market and economic conditions, and could therefore have a material effect on the level
of the obligation and the related expenses.

the discount rate used to measure the net carrying amount is calculated at the end of each year. this
is the rate used to calculate the present value of future cash outflows expected to be required to settle
the obligation. in order to calculate the discount rate, the group uses the interest rate on high-quality
corporate bonds denominated in the same currency in which the benefits are paid and whose terms
to maturity correspond to those of the pension obligations.

other significant assumptions relating to pension obligations are partly based on market conditions
(see section 6.3.1).
construction contracts
the recognition of construction contracts using the percentage of completion method is based on
management’s estimates of the cost of such contracts. changes in estimates or differences between
the estimated cost and the actual cost have a direct effect on recognized earnings from construction
contracts. the operating units continuously review the estimates and adjust them if required.

litigation
in some cases, gea group companies are parties to litigation. the outcome of this litigation could have a
material effect on the group’s net assets, financial position, and results of operations. management
regularly analyzes current information on these legal disputes and recognizes provisions for probable
obligations, including estimated legal costs. both internal counsel and external lawyers are used to make
this assessment. when deciding on the need to recognize provisions, management takes into account the
probability of an unfavorable outcome and its ability to estimate the amount of the obligation with
sufficient reliability. the filing of a suit or the formal assertion of a claim against a gea group company
does not necessarily mean that a provision must be recognized for the related risk (see section 8.4).




                                           gea annual report 2015                                             151

                       notes to the consolidated financial statements / financial risk management




      3.       financial risk management
      the executive board has put in place an effective set of guidelines to manage and hence largely limit
      or hedge financial risks throughout the group. the objectives with regard to protecting assets,
      eliminating gaps in security, and improving efficiency in identifying and analyzing risks are clearly
      defined, as are the relevant organizational structures, powers, and responsibilities. the guidelines are
      based on the principles of system security, the separation of functions, transparency, and immediate
      documentation. for further information, please see the discussion of the risk management system in
      the management report.

      because it operates worldwide, gea group is exposed to currency, interest rate, commodity price,
      credit, and liquidity risk in the course of its ordinary activities. financial risk management aims to
      reduce this risk through the appropriate use of derivative and non-derivative hedging instruments.

      currency risk
      because gea operates internationally, its cash flows are denominated not only in euros, but also in a
      number of other currencies, particularly u.s. dollars. hedging the resulting currency risk is a key
      element of risk management.

      the group guideline requires all group companies to hedge foreign currency items as they arise in
      order to fix prices on the basis of hedging rates. currency risks are hedged for recognized hedged
      items, unrecognized firm commitments, and highly probable transactions. the hedging periods are
      determined by the maturity of the hedged items and are usually up to 12 months, but in exceptional
      cases may exceed that period significantly. despite the hedging requirement, changes in exchange
      rates may affect sales opportunities outside the eurozone.
      group companies based in the eurozone are obliged to tender to gea’s central treasury and
      corporate finance unit all outstanding exposures relating to transactions in goods and services in
      major transaction currencies. most of these exposures are passed on directly to banks at matching
      maturities, depending on the hedging objective of the derivatives and the related accounting
      treatment. they may also be hedged as part of a portfolio. the hedging of financial transactions and
      transactions conducted by subsidiaries outside the eurozone is also closely coordinated with the
      central treasury and corporate finance unit.

      interest rate risk
      because gea group operates worldwide, liquidity is raised and invested in the international money
      and capital markets in different currencies (but mainly in euros) and at different maturities. the
      resulting financial liabilities and investments are exposed to interest rate risk, which must be
      assessed and managed by central financial management. derivative financial instruments may be
      used on a case-by-case basis to hedge interest rate risk and reduce the interest rate volatility and
      financing costs of the hedged items. only the central treasury and corporate finance unit is
      permitted to enter into such interest rate hedges.




152                                             gea annual report 2015

                  notes to the consolidated financial statements / financial risk management




all interest rate derivatives are allocated to individual loans. the hedging relationships are documented
and recognized as cash flow hedges. overall, the interest expense from the loans and the allocated
derivatives reported in the income statement reflects the fixed interest rate for the hedging relationship.

cross-currency swaps were used in connection with the financing of acquisitions in canada and the
uk. they are recognized at fair value. however, they are not included in any documented hedging
relationship with intragroup hedged items. the earnings effects arising from changes to currency
parities that have occurred since the beginning of the cross-currency swaps, and the earnings effects
due to the related intragroup receivables, do not match due to different calculation bases (forward
rate relative to spot rate). the difference in value amounted to eur –6,449 thousand in fiscal year
2015 (previous year: eur –270 thousand).

commodity price risk
gea group requires various metals such as aluminum, copper, and steel, whose purchase prices can
be subject to substantial fluctuations depending on the market situation. long-term supply
agreements have been entered into with various suppliers in order to hedge commodity price risk.

credit risk
financial instruments are exposed to credit risk in that the other party to the contract may fail to
fulfill its obligations. the counterparty limit system used by gea group for financial management
aims to continuously assess and manage counterparty default risk. a maximum risk limit has been
defined for each counterparty, which in most cases is derived from the ratings from recognized credit
rating agencies and credit default swaps (cdss). appropriate action is taken if the individual limit is
exceeded.

the financial standing of potential customers is ascertained via an internal risk board procedure
before orders are accepted. active receivables management, including nonrecourse factoring and
credit insurance, is also performed. in the case of export transactions, confirmed and unconfirmed
letters of credit are used alongside sureties, guarantees, and cover notes, including from export credit
agencies such as euler hermes. in addition to local monitoring by the subsidiary in question, gea
group oversees the main credit risks at group management level so that any accumulation of risk can
be better managed.

since trade receivables are usually due from a large number of customers in different sectors and
regions, there is no concentration of risk. valuation allowances take account of specific credit risks.

so as to reduce the credit risk involved, derivative financial instruments are only entered into with
reputable financial institutions.

the maximum exposure for the financial assets is limited to their carrying amount.

liquidity risk
gea group is exposed to liquidity risk in that it may be unable to meet payment obligations because
it has insufficient cash funds at its disposal. gea group is responsible for managing this risk. cash
funds are arranged and credit lines managed on the basis of a multi-year financial plan and a rolling
month-by-month cash forecast. the funds are then made available to the companies by group
management. cash flow from operating activities is the most important source of liquidity. cash
pools have been established in 13 countries in order to optimize borrowing and the use of cash funds




                                           gea annual report 2015                                             153

                                    notes to the consolidated financial statements / financial risk management




      within gea group. to achieve this, the cash pools automatically balance the accounts of the
      participating group companies every day by crediting or debiting a target account at gea group
      aktiengesellschaft. this prevents separate cash investments and borrowings by these companies to a
      large extent. any additional liquidity requirements are generally borrowed by the gea group
      aktiengesellschaft, which also invests surplus liquidity.

      the following tables show the undiscounted contractually agreed interest and principal payments for
      financial liabilities, including derivative financial instruments with negative fair values:

                                                                                                        cash flows
                                                                      carrying
      (eur thousand)                                                  amount     < 1 year   1-2 years     2-3 years   3-4 years   4-5 years   > 5 years

      2015
      trade payables                                                  610,315    609,487         828             –           –           –           –
      borrower‘s note loan                                             90,595      2,453     92,453              –           –           –           –
      bonds                                                           282,666    286,415           –             –           –           –           –
      liabilities to banks                                             55,869      5,870     50,171            101          32           5           –
      liabilities under finance leases                                 33,809      3,930       3,906         4,023       3,906       3,906     48,057
      liabilities to investees                                            202        202           –             –           –           –           –
      currency derivatives not included in a recognized hedging
      relationship                                                      8,357    284,541     10,268          1,194           –           –           –
      currency derivatives included in a cash flow hedge                    –          –           –             –           –           –           –
      interest rate and cross-currency derivatives not included in
      a recognized hedging relationship                                 3,950      7,864     25,959          4,042           –           –           –
      interest rate and cross-currency derivatives included in a
      cash flow hedge                                                   2,296      1,256       1,042             –           –           –           –
      other financial liabilities                                     139,221     82,045     45,798         15,838       7,372       5,811

      2014
      trade payables                                                  639,719    638,994        725              –           –           –           –
      borrower‘s note loan                                             90,541      2,453      2,453         92,453           –           –           –
      bonds                                                           282,202     11,676    286,415              –           –           –           –
      liabilities to banks                                            156,377    107,857      1,783         51,030          70           –           –
      liabilities under finance leases                                 34,929      3,997      3,946          4,165      3,906       3,906      51,963
      liabilities to investees                                          1,129      1,129           –             –           –           –           –
      currency derivatives not included in a recognized hedging
      relationship                                                      4,945    213,486      5,668              –           –           –           –
      currency derivatives included in a cash flow hedge                9,695    230,499      6,682            343           –           –           –
      interest rate and cross-currency derivatives not included in
      a recognized hedging relationship                                 6,500      8,222      7,837         27,328      3,809            –           –
      interest rate and cross-currency derivatives included in a
      cash flow hedge                                                   3,228      1,238      1,242            926           –           –           –
      other financial liabilities                                     160,086    118,928     86,480         12,989     14,765      10,378       4,254



      all financial liabilities outstanding as of december 31, 2015, are included in the above table on the
      basis of expected contractual cash flows. projected figures for future new liabilities are not taken into
      account. foreign currency amounts are translated at the closing rates. in the case of financial
      liabilities that can be repaid at any time, it is assumed that they will be repaid within one year.

      payments for derivative financial instruments totaling eur 336,165 thousand (previous
      year: eur 507,280 thousand) were partially offset by payments received from these instruments of
      eur 320,373 thousand (previous year: eur 480,377 thousand).




154                                                                  gea annual report 2015

                            notes to the consolidated financial statements / financial risk management




as of december 31, 2015, the group held cash credit lines of eur 1,199,350 thousand (previous
year: eur 1,305,421 thousand), eur 429,130 thousand of which has been utilized (previous
year: eur 529,106 thousand). the cash credit lines are composed of the following items:

                                                                                    12/31/2015   12/31/2015     12/31/2014   12/31/2014
(eur thousand)                                                          maturity      approved       utilized     approved       utilized
gea bond                                                             april 2016       274,739       274,739       274,739       274,739
european investment bank                                              july 2017        50,000        50,000       150,000       150,000
borrower‘s note loan                                            september 2017         90,000        90,000        90,000        90,000
syndicated credit line (“club deal”)                               august 2020        650,000              –      650,000              –
                                                                   maximum of
                                                                 1 year or “until
various (bilateral) credit lines including accurred interests    further notice“      134,611        14,391       140,682        14,367
total                                                                               1,199,350       429,130     1,305,421       529,106



the loan from the european investment bank (eib) was repaid early on january 14, 2015 with a
partial amount of eur 100,000 thousand.

in august 2015, in order to ensure long-term group financing, gea group aktiengesellschaft
prematurely prolonged up to august 2020 the syndicated credit line in the form of a club deal
amounting to eur 650,000 thousand, and updated the conditions and the relevant documentation.
the loan features two 12-month prolongation options, potentially extending the deal up to 2022.

as of december 31, 2015, guarantee lines for the performance of contracts, advance payments, and
warranty obligations of eur 1,463,367 thousand were available to the group as a whole (previous
year: eur 1,732,338 thousand), eur 481,442 thousand of which has been utilized (previous
year: eur 462,077 thousand). the guarantees are generally payable at first demand. as is generally
customary for this type of order collateral and financing instrument, guarantees have only been
drawn on by gea group in extremely rare exceptional cases in recent years.

as of december 31, 2015, eur 26,275 thousand (previous year: 34,151 thousand) of bank guarantees
under gea group aktiengesellschaft credit lines were granted to customers of the gea hx segment
(hx), which was sold as of october 31, 2014, to collateralize the segment’s contractual obligations. the
purchaser of the gea hx segment has granted bank guarantees of eur 14,865 thousand (previous year:
17,954 thousand) in favor of gea group aktiengesellschaft to cover the unlikely event of default.

in addition, gea group aktiengesellschaft has issued group guarantees of eur 63,646 thousand
(previous year: eur 108,045 thousand) to collateralize the gea hx segment’s contractual obligations.
to hedge the risk of claims being made under the guarantees, gea group aktiengesellschaft has
received bank guarantees from the purchaser of the gea hx segment in the amount of eur 19,094
thousand (previous year: eur 32,413 thousand).

as of the year-end, eur 84 thousand (previous year: eur 84 thousand) of bank guarantees under
gea group aktiengesellschaft credit lines and eur 99,369 thousand (previous year: eur 99,733
thousand) of group guarantees were granted to lurgi ag’s customers to collateralize that company’s
contractual obligations in the unlikely event of default. the purchaser of the lurgi group has granted
bank guarantees that cover the amount for which gea group aktiengesellschaft is liable under the
bank guarantees issued. eur 2,830 thousand (previous year: eur 2,830 thousand) of bank
guarantees under gea group aktiengesellschaft credit lines were granted for lentjes gmbh. group
guarantees granted to lentjes gmbh to collateralize that company’s contractual obligations to its
customers were fully derecognized in 2015 (previous year: eur 71,764 thousand).




                                                                gea annual report 2015                                                      155

                       notes to the consolidated financial statements / financial risk management




      future payments from operating leases are reported separately under other financial obligations
      (see section 9.2).

      foreign currency sensitivity analysis
      gea group companies are always exposed to foreign currency risk if their cash flows are denominated in
      a currency other than their own functional currency. as a general principle, foreign currency risks
      must be hedged using appropriate financial instruments so that fluctuations arising from the hedged
      item (underlying) and the hedging transaction are neutralized over their duration.

      the foreign currency risk presented in the sensitivity analysis results from the following
      transactions:

      - from currency derivatives used to hedge previously unrecognized hedged items, i.e. for
        contractually agreed or expected transactions.
        if the hedge has been effected for economic reasons and is not included in a documented hedging
        relationship, a corresponding currency risk exposure will have a direct effect on earnings. where
        interest rate derivatives are included in a hedging relationship in the form of cash flow hedges,
        they are subject to equity-related interest rate risk. no interest rate derivatives were designated as
        cash flow hedges as of december 31, 2015.

      - from cross-currency swaps:
        although swaps are matched by intragroup receivables as hedged items, they are not included in a
        documented hedging relationship. while receivables are measured using the spot rate, the
        currency components of the swaps are measured on the basis of the forward rates. the two rates
        could differ significantly depending on the interest rate difference between the two currencies.

      - from unhedged foreign currency transactions:
        the translation of foreign currency receivables or liabilities at the closing rate has a direct effect
        on earnings.

      the currency pairs in which the major part of the foreign currency cash flows is settled are included
      as relevant risk variables in the foreign currency sensitivity analysis. the following table shows the
      sensitivity of a 10 percent increase or decrease in the euro from the perspective of the group:


      (eur thousand)                                nominal amount    profit/loss for the year              equity
      base currency             foreign currency                               2015                         2015
                                                                         + 10%                   - 10%   + 10%       - 10%
      eur                       usd                         597,664         5,209            –6,366          –           –
      eur                       gbp                          94,278      –1,280                  1,565       –           –
      eur                       nzd                          59,984      –1,079                  1,319       –           –
      eur                       cny                          40,622          384                 –470        –           –
      eur                       zar                          27,681         2,155            –2,634          –           –
      eur                       cad                          23,887         2,240            –2,738          –           –




156                                                gea annual report 2015

                            notes to the consolidated financial statements / financial risk management




(eur thousand)                                               nominal amount           profit/loss for the year                          equity
base currency                             foreign currency                                     2014                                     2014
                                                                                          + 10%                  - 10%           + 10%                 - 10%
eur                                       usd                        707,951                  –9                   11             9,042              –11,046
eur                                       dkk                        182,816              –1,635                 1,999                   –                  –
eur                                       gbp                        130,089               1,265             –1,546              –1,334                1,630
eur                                       cny                          52,146              –598                   731                   42               –51
eur                                       zar                          36,674              2,520             –3,080                 500                 –612
eur                                       cad                          26,375              2,712             –3,315                      3                 –4



the nominal amount relates to all contractually agreed foreign currency cash flows as of the
reporting date, which are translated into euros at the closing rate.

the potential fluctuations in the profit or loss for the year result primarily from derivatives that are
not included in a designated hedging relationship, but are used to avoid currency risk as part of the
general hedging strategy.

interest rate sensitivity analysis
the interest rate sensitivity analysis presents the effects of changes in market interest rates on
interest income and expenses, and equity. the sensitivity analyses are based on the following
assumptions:

- nonderivative fixed-rate financial instruments are only subject to on-balance-sheet interest rate
  risk if they are measured at fair value. gea group measures such financial instruments at
  amortized cost.

- nonderivative variable-rate financial instruments whose interest payments are not included as
  hedged items in a hedging relationship that is recognized as a cash flow hedge are subject to
  interest rate risk in the income statement.

- interest rate derivatives included in a hedging relationship that is recognized as a cash flow hedge
  are subject to equity-related interest rate risk in the amount of the effective portion of the hedging
  relationship.

- interest rate derivatives not included in a hedging relationship that is recognized as a cash flow
  hedge are subject to interest rate risk in the income statement.

- currency derivatives are not subject to material interest rate risk and therefore have no effect on
  interest rate sensitivity.

the sensitivity analysis assumes a linear shift in the yield curves for all currencies of +100 or –10
basis points as of the reporting date. relatively speaking, there is less of a downward shift in the
yield curve shift assumed for the sensitivity analysis than an upward shift. the low, near 0 percent
interest rate level avoids a shift to a significant negative interest rate. this results in the following
effects for the simulated scenarios:

                                                                                 12/31/2015                                    12/31/2014
(eur thousand)                                                       + 100 basis points     - 10 basis points      + 100 basis points        - 10 basis points
interest rate risk recognized in equity                                            766                    –78                  1,189                     –72
interest rate risk recognized in profit or loss                                    824                    –83                  1,127                     –73



the calculation is based on a net volume of eur 121,469 thousand (previous year: eur 128,640 thousand).




                                                             gea annual report 2015                                                                              157

                               notes to the consolidated financial statements / financial risk management




      capital management
      gea group aktiengesellschaft’s key financial objective is to sustainably increase its enterprise value
      in the interests of investors, employees, customers, and suppliers, while safeguarding and securing
      the group’s solvency at all times.

      improving profitability and, as a result, increasing the return on capital employed therefore takes
      priority in all business decisions. our strict focus on contract margin quality is also derived from this.
      equally, external growth through potential acquisitions is viewed from the perspective of this goal.

      capital management, in the form of generating sufficient liquidity reserves, plays a crucial role in the
      pursuit of these enterprise goals. not only does it ensure gea group’s long-term existence, it also
      creates the entrepreneurial flexibility needed to enhance and update current business activities and
      to take advantage of strategic opportunities. it is achieved by managing liquidity reserves and
      available credit lines on an ongoing basis using short- and medium-term forecasts of future liquidity
      trends and borrowing requirements.

      the group’s financial management encompasses liquidity management, group financing, and the
      management of interest rate and exchange rate risks. as the group management company, gea
      group aktiengesellschaft is responsible for gea’s central financial management, which aims to
      reduce financing costs as far as possible, to optimize interest rates for financial investments, to
      minimize counterparty credit risk, to leverage economies of scale, to hedge interest rate and exchange
      rate risk exposures as effectively as possible, and to ensure that loan covenants are complied with.
      the goal of gea’s financing strategy is not only to be able to meet its payment obligations whenever
      they fall due, but also to ensure that sufficient cash reserves are always available in the form of credit
      lines, in addition to maintaining a strategic cash position. the centralized liquidity portfolio is
      managed mainly for capital preservation and risk reduction by diversifying the cash investments.

      the capital structure is monitored regularly using various key financial indicators so as to optimize
      capital costs. core indicators include the equity ratio and the net debt to equity ratio (gearing). net
      debt for the complete group is calculated as follows:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                 12/31/2015     12/31/2014
      liabilities to banks                                                                              –55,869      –156,377
      borrower‘s note loan                                                                              –90,595       –90,541
      bonds                                                                                            –282,666      –282,202
      cash and cash equivalents                                                                       1,174,150     1,195,858
      current securities                                                                                 37,000        37,036
      fixed deposits with a remaining period ≤ 1 year                                                   200,000       199,961
      net liquidity (+)/net debt (-)                                                                   982,020        903,735
      equity                                                                                          2,844,199     2,527,207
      equity ratio                                                                                          46.5%      43.3%
      gearing                                                                                           –34.5%        –35.8%



      the company further increased its net liquidity by eur 78,285 thousand to eur 982,020 thousand as
      of december 31, 2015.




158                                                     gea annual report 2015

                             notes to the consolidated financial statements / financial risk management /
                                 assets held for sale, liabilities held for sale, and discontinued operations




two international rating agencies, moody’s and fitch, again rated gea group aktiengesellschaft’s
ability to meet its financial obligations. the ratings for gea group are as follows:

                                                                                            2015                2014
agency                                                                                   rating    outlook   rating      outlook
moody‘s                                                                                   baa2      stable    baa2        stable
fitch                                                                                      bbb      stable     bbb        stable



gea group’s investment grade rating in the “bbb” range ensures that it has good financing
opportunities both with banks and directly on the capital markets. the current ratings reflect gea
group’s strong solvency and ensure access to the international financial markets.



4.             assets held for sale, liabilities held for sale, and
               discontinued operations

gea heat exchangers segment
in fiscal year 2014, the sale of the former gea heat exchangers segment to funds advised by triton
was completed with effect from october 31, 2014 (closing). gea hx has one of the largest heat
exchanger portfolios in the world and provides products and systems for numerous applications and
areas of use, ranging from air conditioning systems to cooling towers. there is however only a
limited potential for synergies between gea hx and the other segments in gea group’s portfolio
due to the differing business profiles.

the carrying amount of the gea hx disposal group was written down to its fair value less costs to
sell as of september 30, 2014, resulting in an impairment loss of eur 22,383 thousand. the entire
impairment loss was allocated to the goodwill of the disposal group.

the fair value less costs to sell as of september 30, 2014, was measured on the basis of the contractual
sale price and estimates of the cash outflows attributable to the costs to sell.

the earnings from the sale recognized in the figures for fiscal year 2014 were as follows:


(eur thousand)                                                                                                             2014
total disposed assets                                                                                                  1,633,415
total disposed liabilities                                                                                             –644,361
disposed net assets                                                                                                     989,054
proceeds from disposal (paid in cash)                                                                                  1,059,307
less attributable costs to sell                                                                                         –95,226
profit from reclassification of currency translation on translating foreign operations                                    6,784
loss on disposal before tax                                                                                             –18,189
income taxes                                                                                                             –1,234
loss on disposal after tax                                                                                              –19,423




                                                                 gea annual report 2015                                            159

                                     notes to the consolidated financial statements / assets held for sale,
                                               liabilities held for sale, and discontinued operations




      in addition to the transaction costs, costs to sell included expenses from the recognition of liabilities
      for contractual warranties associated with the sale, including obligations from risk sharing for large
      projects.

      the cash flow from the sale is outlined in the table below:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                                 2014
      proceeds from disposal                                                                                    1,059,307
      disposed cash and cash equivalents                                                                          –79,200
      net cash flow from disposal                                                                                980,107



      the results of the discontinued operation gea hx were as follows in the previous year:

                                                                                                              01/01/2014 -
      (eur thousand)                                                                                           12/31/2014
      sales                                                                                                     1,172,961
      other revenue                                                                                                32,173
      expenses                                                                                                  1,106,724
      profit or loss from operating activities before tax from discontinued operations                             98,410
      income taxes                                                                                                 23,778
      profit or loss from operating activities after tax from discontinued operations                              74,632
      profit or loss from valuation adjustment/disposal                                                            40,572
      income taxes                                                                                                  1,234
      profit or loss from valuation adjustment/disposal after tax                                                  41,806
      profit or loss after tax from discontinued operations                                                        32,826
       thereof attributable to shareholders of gea group ag                                                        32,678
       thereof attributable to non-controlling interests                                                              148



      in fiscal year 2015, the discontinued operation gea hx incurred losses of eur 1,011 thousand after
      tax. this was primarily due to the development of the remaining risks at gea following the sale. tax
      income attributable to this discontinued operation amounted to eur 115 thousand.

      assets held for sale, liabilities held for sale, and discontinued operations
      assets held for sale are reported at a carrying amount of eur 8,121 thousand as of december 31, 2015
      (previous year: eur 5,585 thousand). these are two held-for-sale investment properties, one in
      canada (eur 2,938 thousand) and one in germany (eur 2,602 thousand). these assets will be
      disposed of since they have no further use.

      discontinued operations comprise the remaining risks from the sale of plant engineering activities
      sold in previous years, notably lurgi and lentjes, and the continued process of winding-up past
      discontinued operations, including individual legal disputes arising from them.

      profit from other discontinued operations amounted to eur 156.8 million in fiscal year 2015 against
      expenses of eur 18.0 million. the pre-tax profit from other discontinued operations thus amounted
      to eur 138.8 million. this figure includes inflows from the settlement of legal disputes in connection
      with the former business activities of mg technologies ag in the amount of eur 148.4 million. the
      contingent asset from the failed spin-off of former business activities in 2004 has thus been
      eliminated.




160                                                           gea annual report 2015

                     notes to the consolidated financial statements / assets held for sale,
                        liabilities held for sale, and discontinued operations / acquisitions




all told, profit after tax from these other discontinued operations of eur 98,628 thousand (previous
year: eur 1,786 thousand) had an impact on consolidated profit. this profit will be allocated in full to the
shareholders of the gea group ag. tax expenditure attributable to these other discontinued operations
amounted to eur 40,161 thousand. in the previous year, tax income amounted to eur 2,992 thousand.



5.            acquisitions
5.1           companies acquired
gea group acquired the following companies in the course of fiscal year 2015:

                                                                                          percentage of       consideration
                                                                                          voting interest       transferred
business                                  head office                  acquisition date              (%)    (eur thousand)
de klokslag                               bolsward/netherlands         january 2, 2015            100.0            29,713
comas                                     torrebelvicino/italy          june 19, 2015             100.0           103,355
cmt                                       peveragno/italy               june 19, 2015             100.0            19,950
hilge                                     bodenheim/germany        september 30, 2015               94.0           23,113



on january 2, 2015, gea completed the purchase of shares in the dutch group de klokslag. all shares
of the companies de klokslag automatisierung b.v., de klokslag engineering b.v., and de klokslag
machinefabrik b.v. were acquired. in addition, rights to certain technologies were individually
acquired.

the de klokslag group is a leading european manufacturer of large-scale equipment for semi-hard
cheese production and has been allocated to the business area solutions. as a result of this
acquisition, gea is now a full solution provider in this growing segment of the dairy industry.

the transaction costs associated with the acquisition amount to eur 428 thousand, of which
eur 28 thousand was incurred in the reporting period and eur 400 thousand in the previous year.

on june 19, 2015, gea completed the purchase of shares in the italian group comas, acquiring all
shares of the group’s holding company, finsamoc s.p.a. comas is a leading manufacturer of
machinery and equipment for sophisticated decorated cake and pastry making processes. as an
established player in this segment, the comas group will form the bakery application center in gea’s
solutions business area, allowing gea to extend its leading position in the field of sophisticated
process technologies for the food industry.

the transaction costs associated with the acquisition amounted to eur 1,450 thousand, and were
incurred in their entirety in the current fiscal year.

gea also acquired cmt s.p.a. (cmt) on june 19, 2015, a leading supplier of equipment and
integrated production lines for pasta filata cheese. the company’s customer base is primarily located
in the eu. the company, which has been assigned to the business area solutions, also has a portfolio
of major reference projects in north and south america. this acquisition enhances gea’s position in
the growth area of cheese processing.

the transaction costs associated with the acquisition amounted to eur 194 thousand, and were
incurred in their entirety in the current fiscal year.




                                             gea annual report 2015                                                           161

                             notes to the consolidated financial statements / acquisitions




      on september 30, 2015, following approval by the relevant antitrust authorities, gea completed the
      purchase of hilge gmbh & co. kg (hilge), which is headquartered in bodenheim, germany. the
      transaction was effected by means of a share deal in combination with the acquisition of various
      stand-alone inventory assets. the acquisition has enabled gea to expand its portfolio in the field of
      heavy-duty hygienic pumps and reinforce its position as a provider of system solutions for use in
      hygienic and aseptic process environments in the business area equipment..

      the transaction costs associated with the acquisition amount to eur 385 thousand, of which
      eur 105 thousand was incurred in the previous year.

      transaction costs associated with company acquisitions are reported in other expenses.

      5.2           consideration transferred
      the consideration transferred is composed as follows:

      business
      (eur thousand)                                               cash   contingent consideration        total
      de klokslag                                                26,713                     3,000        29,713
      comas                                                     103,355                         –       103,355
      cmt                                                        18,350                     1,600        19,950
      hilge                                                      23,113                         –        23,113
      total                                                     171,531                     4,600       176,131



      the consideration transferred for the shares in de klokslag of eur 29,713 thousand includes a
      contingent purchase consideration, the fair value of which was eur 3,000 thousand at the acquisition
      date. the amount of the contingent purchase consideration is dependent on the consolidated
      earnings before interest and tax of de klokslag in fiscal years 2015 to 2017, which must exceed a
      specified minimum amount for payment to be made. based on the business plans, it is expected that
      the maximum amount will be payable.

      as part of the acquisition of cmt, gea agreed to pay an additional consideration, the amount which
      is dependent on cmt’s earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization and impairment
      losses, and reversals of impairment losses, in fiscal years 2016 to 2018; these must exceed a specified
      minimum amount for payment to be made. payment is also subject to specific employees remaining
      with cmt until at least december 31, 2018. the amount of the contingent consideration is between
      zero and eur 4,000 thousand; it is payable in installments in the years 2017 to 2019. based on the
      corporate planning, the fair value of the contingent consideration was measured at
      eur 1,600 thousand as of the acquisition date.




162                                            gea annual report 2015

                                 notes to the consolidated financial statements / acquisitions




the acquisition of comas was completed with economic effect as of january 1, 2015. as of that date,
the company had net financial assets of eur 27,908 thousand, which declined by eur 1,321 thousand
in the period up to the closing date primarily due to an increase in working capital.

due to a purchase price adjustment clause, the actual consideration paid for hilge of eur 24,138
thousand was eur 1,025 thousand less than the amount stated in the report for the third quarter of 2015.

5.3            assets acquired and liabilities assumed
allocation of the purchase price for de klokslag was finalized in the fourth quarter with a few minor
adjustments. the allocation of purchase prices for the other company acquisitions completed in fiscal
year 2015 is provisional with respect to the identification and measurement of the assets acquired
and liabilities assumed. there is particular uncertainty regarding the identification and measurement
of intangible assets.

the following assets were acquired and liabilities assumed as a result of the acquisition of the four
companies:

fair value
(eur thousand)                                         de klokslag      comas           cmt       hilge     total
property, plant and equipment                                 947       10,692          628      10,499    22,766
intangible assets                                         18,980        23,905         5,100     16,370    64,355
other non-current assets                                        5            –             –          –        5
non-current assets                                        19,932        34,597         5,728     26,869    87,126
inventories                                                   878        5,721         4,042      6,525    17,166
trade receivables                                           3,183        8,139         2,864          –    14,186
other current assets                                        4,798        1,371          673       1,220     8,062
cash and cash equivalents                                   3,824       26,528         1,254      1,771    33,377
current assets                                            12,683        41,759         8,833      9,516    72,791
total assets                                              32,615        76,356        14,561     36,385   159,917
other non-current liabilities                                   –        1,517          785      20,186    22,488
deferred taxes                                              4,789        7,012         1,868      2,435    16,104
non-current liabilities                                     4,789        8,529         2,653     22,621    38,592
trade payables                                              3,103        9,641         2,231       204     15,179
income tax liabilities                                        394        2,435          515           –     3,344
other current liabilities                                   1,599       10,404         1,573      2,144    15,720
current liabilities                                         5,096       22,480         4,319      2,348    34,243
total liabilities                                           9,885       31,009         6,972     24,969    72,835
net assets acquired                                       22,730        45,347         7,589     11,416    87,082
 of which attributable to gea group ag                    22,730        45,347         7,589     11,416    87,082
acquisition cost                                          29,713       103,355        19,950     23,113   176,131
goodwill of gea group ag                                    6,983       58,008        12,361     11,697    89,049




                                                    gea annual report 2015                                          163

                                         notes to the consolidated financial statements / acquisitions




      eur 5,797 thousand of the debt assumed during the acquisition of hilge relates to shares of another
      limited partner in hilge gmbh & co. kg that qualify as financial debt under ifrs. the amount of the
      liability recognized in this respect corresponds to the present value of the guaranteed dividends
      payable in the future to said limited partner.

      progress made in the preparation of purchase price allocations has given rise to changes to the values
      reported during the year. besides minor adjustments to the purchase price allocations drawn up for
      cmt and hilge, the following changes to the purchase price allocation of comas compared with the
      values presented in the second and third quarterly reports of 2015 materialized. the fair value of
      comas’ intangible assets was increased by eur 13.9 million. also, the value for trade receivables was
      reduced by eur 5.0 million and the figure for other current liabilities raised by eur 4.2 million.
      these changes were due, in particular, to adjustments to the accounting for long-term construction
      contracts. all told, taking deferred taxes into account, these adjustments gave rise to an increase in
      comas’ net assets of eur 5.0, million. accordingly, this increase triggered a decrease in goodwill of
      the same amount. the adjustment to the purchase price allocation has resulted in a fall of eur 570
      thousand in the consolidated profit reported in the income statement for the third quarter of 2015.

      the fair value and gross amount of the receivables acquired comprise the following elements:

                                                                                       contractual cash flows not
      trade receivables (eur thousand)                                  gross amount    expected to be collectable   fair value
      de klokslag                                                             3,401                          218        3,183
      comas                                                                   8,260                          121        8,139
      cmt                                                                     3,104                          240        2,864
      hilge                                                                       –                             –            –
      total                                                                  14,765                          579      14,186



      the company acquisitions gave rise to goodwill of eur 89,049 thousand. the acquisition of hilge
      gave rise to tax-deductible goodwill of eur 19,884 thousand. the volume of goodwill is attributable
      to the strengthening of gea group’s general competitive position, advantages from expected
      synergies and future market developments, and the expertise of the workforce.




164                                                        gea annual report 2015

                                 notes to the consolidated financial statements / acquisitions




5.4           impact on consolidated revenue and consolidated profit
since their acquisition, the companies purchased in 2015 have contributed to consolidated revenue
and consolidated profit after tax as follows:


(eur thousand)                                                                         sales          profit for the period
de klokslag                                                                          17,764                          –724
comas                                                                                24,938                         3,098
cmt                                                                                   7,441                           716
hilge                                                                                 7,347                          –402



if the companies had been acquired as of january 1, 2015, consolidated revenue in the reporting
period would have been eur 4,656,346 thousand, and the corresponding consolidated profit after tax
eur 366,246 thousand.

5.5           cash outflows
the acquisitions in the fiscal year gave rise to the following cash outflows:


(eur thousand)                                                                                     2015              2014
consideration transferred                                                                        152,156           25,000
 less contingent consideration                                                                    –4,600                 –
purchase price paid                                                                              147,556           25,000
 less cash acquired                                                                              –33,377                 –
net cash used in acquisition                                                                     114,179           25,000



an outflow of eur 119,723 thousand from acquisitions was recognized in the cash flow statement for
2015. of this amount, eur 5,544 thousand is attributable to purchase price payments in respect of
company acquisitions completed in prior years. an advance payment of eur 25,000 thousand was
made in fiscal year 2014 in respect of the acquisition of de klokslag. the adjustment to the purchase
price of hilge did not have a cash effect as of the reporting date.




                                                    gea annual report 2015                                                    165

                     notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets




      6.             consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets
      6.1            property, plant and equipment
      property, plant and equipment changed as follows:

                                                                land and          technical other equipment,
                                                        buildings (owner-   equipment and      operating and   assets under
      (eur thousand)                                            occupied)        machinery office equipment    construction       total

      jan. 1, 2014
      cost                                                      501,289           385,850          311,854          38,234    1,237,227
      cumulative depreciation and
      impairment losses                                        –225,316          –287,683         –233,286            –522    –746,807
      carrying amount                                           275,973            98,167            78,568        37,712      490,420

      changes in 2014
      additions                                                    8,897           13,627            22,634         19,819      64,977
      disposals                                                    –840              –715            –2,388         –1,289      –5,232
      depreciation                                              –13,559           –20,881           –21,681         –1,016     –57,137
      impairment losses                                                –                 –                –              –           –
      reversal of impairment losses                                    –              317                42              –         359
      reclassification as held for sale                                –                 –                –              –           –
      acquisitions through business combinations                   1,821             –104               503              4       2,224
      currency translation                                         6,529            3,169             1,442            216      11,356
      other changes                                                3,587           16,984             2,358       –31,138       –8,209
      carrying amount at dec. 31, 2014                          282,408           110,564            81,478        24,308      498,758

      jan. 1, 2015
      cost                                                      520,733           409,148          328,812          27,339    1,286,032
      cumulative depreciation and
      impairment losses                                        –238,325          –298,584         –247,334          –3,031    –787,274
      carrying amount                                           282,408           110,564            81,478        24,308      498,758

      changes in 2015
      additions                                                    4,068           12,859            16,137         19,213      52,277
      disposals                                                    –190              –789              –687           –683      –2,349
      depreciation                                              –13,965           –23,227           –21,339           –801     –59,332
      impairment losses                                          –2,669               –22                –7              –      –2,698
      reversal of impairment losses                                    –               40                 –              –          40
      reclassification as held for sale                          –1,367                  –                –              –      –1,367
      acquisitions through business combinations                 16,646             4,350             1,752             18      22,766
      currency translation                                         3,994            2,053               727             63       6,837
      other changes                                                6,017            5,704               439       –19,020       –6,860
      carrying amount at dec. 31, 2015                          294,942           111,532            78,500         23,098     508,072

      dec. 31, 2015
      cost                                                      545,260           435,386          344,771          26,688    1,352,105
      cumulative depreciation and
      impairment losses                                        –250,318          –323,854         –266,271          –3,590    –844,033
      carrying amount                                           294,942           111,532            78,500        23,098      508,072



      the other changes are primarily attributable to reclassifications from assets under construction to
      other items of property, plant, and equipment.




166                                                     gea annual report 2015

             notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets




as in the previous year, items of property, plant, and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line
basis using the relevant residual values and the following useful lives:

                                                                                                               useful life in
                                                                                                                       years
buildings and parts of buildings                                                                                    2 to 50
technical equipment and machinery, other equipment                                                                  2 to 25
operating and office equipment                                                                                      3 to 40



the underlying residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if
necessary.

property, plant and equipment includes land and buildings, technical equipment and machinery, and
office and operating equipment leased under finance leases:


(eur thousand)                                                                                      2015              2014
cost – capitalized leased assets under finance leases                                             43,893            44,032
cumulative depreciation and impairment losses                                                    –11,639           –10,259
carrying amount                                                                                   32,254            33,773



eur 27,150 thousand (previous year: eur 28,513 thousand) of the carrying amount of the leased
items of property, plant, and equipment relates to buildings. the leases for the buildings extend
beyond 2030. the leases do not include extension options, escalation clauses, or the option to acquire
the leased asset.

the corresponding lease liabilities are explained under financial liabilities (see section 7.4).

the carrying amount of property, plant, and equipment that serves as collateral for credit lines
amounted to eur 4,355 thousand as of the reporting date (previous year: eur 4,359 thousand). most
of these assets relate to land and buildings.




                                                        gea annual report 2015                                                  167

                     notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets




      6.2            investment property
      the following table shows the changes in investment property:


      (eur thousand)                                                                         land       buildings           total

      jan. 1, 2014
      cost                                                                                 15,851          9,704          25,555
      cumulative depreciation and impairment losses                                        –6,793         –5,314         –12,107
      carrying amount                                                                       9,058          4,390          13,448

      changes in 2014
      additions                                                                             1,254              –           1,254
      disposals                                                                               –14              –             –14
      depreciation                                                                              –           –266            –266
      currency translation                                                                     23            115             138
      reclassification in held for sale                                                    –2,077              –          –2,077
      carrying amount at dec. 31, 2014                                                      8,244          4,239          12,483

      jan. 1, 2015
      cost                                                                                 15,037          9,834          24,871
      cumulative depreciation and impairment losses                                        –6,793         –5,595         –12,388
      carrying amount                                                                       8,244          4,239          12,483

      changes in 2015
      additions                                                                                 –              –               –
      disposals                                                                            –1,006           –192          –1,198
      depreciation                                                                              –           –582            –582
      currency translation                                                                     –4            –25             –29
      reclassification in held for sale                                                      –541         –2,397          –2,938
      carrying amount at dec. 31, 2015                                                      6,693          1,043           7,736

      dec. 31, 2015
      cost                                                                                 13,080          6,707          19,787
      cumulative depreciation and impairment losses                                        –6,387         –5,664         –12,051
      carrying amount                                                                       6,693          1,043           7,736



      the fair value of investment property is eur 21,325 thousand (previous year: eur 17,141 thousand).
      since these fair values are calculated on the basis of comparable market-based prices that are
      determined internally, they are categorized within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.

      the following amounts are reported in the income statement in connection with investment
      property:

                                                                                                      01/01/2015 -   01/01/2014 -
      (eur thousand)                                                                                   12/31/2015     12/31/2014
      rental income                                                                                         2,304          3,048
      operating expenses                                                                                    1,731          2,325
       thereof: properties used to generate rental income                                                   1,731          2,325
      total                                                                                                   573            723




168                                                         gea annual report 2015

              notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets




6.3           goodwill
the following table provides a breakdown of goodwill by business area (the group’s operating
segments) and changes in goodwill over time:

                                       gea             gea         gea            gea            gea
                                       food           farm    mechanical       process   refrigeration         ba          ba
(eur thousand)                     solutions   technologies   equipment    engineering   technologies    equipment   solutions       total
carrying amount at dec. 31, 2013   238,495        179,631       331,890      383,715         178,823            –           –    1,312,554
additions                                 –              –            –           815          1,133            –           –       1,948
currency translation                      –          8,137          464         3,057          3,812            –           –      15,470
reclassification                   –238,495              –      238,495             –               –           –           –           –
carrying amount at dec. 31, 2014          –       187,768       570,849      387,587         183,768            –           –    1,329,972
additions                                 –              –            –         6,409            815       11,697     70,943       89,864
currency translation                      –          6,793        3,239         1,747          3,387        –1,724    –1,763       11,679
reclassification                          –      –194,561      –574,088     –395,743       –187,970       869,086    483,276            –
carrying amount at dec. 31, 2015          –              –            –             –               –     879,059    552,456     1,431,515



following intensive preparations, gea’s new group structure – which was developed as part of its
“fit for 2020” initiative – was implemented on june 8, 2015. as part of this new structure, the
development and manufacturing of products and the provision of process solutions have been
bundled in two new business areas – equipment and solutions.

the group’s operating segments were reorganized accordingly during the reporting period. thus, the
former gea mechanical equipment and gea farm technologies segments were allocated to the
business area equipment, while gea process engineering now belongs to the business area solutions.
the former gea refrigeration technologies segment was split between the business areas equipment
and solutions, with the goodwill attributable to the former segment being reallocated based on the
relative values as of the reorganization date.

impairment test
goodwill recoverability was tested when the operating segments were restructured and at the end of
fiscal year 2015. the operating segments in the form of business areas were identified as cash-
generating units with goodwill for the purpose of the year-end impairment test. the recoverable
amounts for the business areas were compared with their carrying amounts, which included any
goodwill allocated to them.

the recoverable amount of an operating segment is determined by calculating value in use using the
discounted cash flow method. the cash flows used are the after-tax operating cash flows from the
consolidated medium-term planning (three-year period) prepared by the executive board. the values for
2016 were planned “bottom up”, whereas the planning for 2017 and 2018 was conducted on a “top down”
basis. the supervisory board has taken note of the corresponding plans. assumptions for the period
beyond the planning horizon are based on the cash flows in the previous planning year, extrapolated
using a uniform growth rate of 1.5 percent (previous year: 1.5 percent). the underlying growth rates do
not exceed the average long-term growth rates for the markets in which the segments operate.




                                                       gea annual report 2015                                                                169

                     notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets




      the planning assumes continued stable growth in the food and drink sales markets. this assumption
      is based on an expectation of growing demand for processed foods. both gea’s business areas will
      profit from these underlying trends. growth is also assumed for the other customer industries. by
      contrast, declining growth rates have been factored in for the oil and gas industry. these trends will
      also affect both business areas. in addition, planned growth for the individual business areas also
      takes account of actual past growth rates.

      any other expenses and the savings from the “fit for 2020” program were included in the planning as
      the criteria for recognition of a restructuring provision had been met by the reporting date.

      with regard to raw material prices, it is assumed that any increase can be offset by increased selling
      prices. future acquisitions are not included in the planning process.

      the total cost of capital assumed for discounting is based on a risk-free interest rate of 1.50 percent
      (previous year: 1.75 percent) and a market risk premium of 6.75 percent (previous year: 6.75 percent). in
      addition, beta factors derived from the respective peer group, a borrowing risk premium, as well as
      capital structure were taken into account for each segment. segment-specific tax rates were also applied.

      cash flows for the individual segments are discounted using the following after-tax rates:

      discount rate
      (%)                                                                                              12/31/2015      12/31/2014
      gea farm technologies                                                                                    –             9.87
      gea mechanical equipment                                                                                 –             8.68
      gea process engineering                                                                                  –             7.59
      gea refrigeration technologies                                                                           –             8.25
      ba equipment                                                                                           7.76              –
      ba solutions                                                                                           7.09              –



      the impairment tests conducted for the goodwill confirm its recoverability.




170                                                     gea annual report 2015

               notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets




6.4            other intangible assets
the carrying amount of intangible assets changed as follows:

                                                   market-    customer-     contract-   technology-     internally
                                                    related      related       based          based    generated
                                                 intangible   intangible   intangible     intangible   intangible
(eur thousand)                                       assets       assets       assets         assets        assets      total

jan. 1, 2014
cost                                               62,061      166,606       87,536        132,045        85,969      534,217
cumulative amortization and impairment losses     –12,449      –57,289      –57,665        –59,374      –27,600      –214,377
carrying amount                                    49,612      109,317       29,871         72,671       58,369       319,840

changes in 2014
additions                                               18            –       9,342          3,358        23,242       35,960
disposals                                              –11            –        –426             –41             –       –478
amortization                                         –284      –16,135       –6,908        –10,394        –9,211      –42,932
impairment losses                                        –            –            –              –         –445        –445
reversal of impairment losses                         118             –            –           231              –        349
acquisitions through business combinations          1,404           920            7           602              –       2,933
currency translation                                1,078         1,117         316          1,168           188        3,867
other changes                                            –            –         241            104         6,117        6,462
carrying amount at dec. 31, 2014                   51,935       95,219       32,444         67,699       78,260      325,557

jan. 1, 2015
cost                                               64,679      169,925       97,647        136,849      115,671      584,771
cumulative amortization and impairment losses     –12,744      –74,706      –65,203        –69,150      –37,411      –259,214
carrying amount                                    51,935       95,219       32,444         67,699       78,260      325,557

changes in 2015
additions                                                7            –       6,967          4,605        29,689       41,268
disposals                                               –1            –          –90          –178          –125        –394
amortization                                         –276      –18,928       –8,946         –9,457      –10,170       –47,777
impairment losses                                  –3,892             –      –3,089              –6       –2,031       –9,018
reversal of impairment losses                            –            –            –              –             –           –
acquisitions through business combinations         40,221       11,134          364         12,635              1      64,355
currency translation                                  479           173           34         1,152           103        1,941
other changes                                         112            11       1,079           –271         5,497        6,428
carrying amount at dec. 31, 2015                   88,585       87,609       28,762         76,179      101,224      382,359

dec. 31, 2015
cost                                              107,487      181,803      108,713        155,008      144,959      697,970
cumulative amortization and impairment losses     –18,902      –94,194      –79,951        –78,829      –43,735      –315,611
carrying amount                                    88,585       87,609       28,762         76,179      101,224      382,359



the additions to internally generated intangible assets are primarily attributable to the business area
equipment, where costs relating to developments in automated milking were capitalized.




                                                  gea annual report 2015                                                        171

                     notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets




      intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized on a straight-line basis using the following
      useful lives:

                                                                                                                              useful life in
                                                                                                                                      years
      market-related intangible assets                                                                                             1 to 20
      customer-related intangible assets                                                                                           1 to 10
      contract-based intangible assets                                                                                             1 to 20
      technology-based intangible assets                                                                                           1 to 25



      amortization of intangible assets attributable to the complete group in the amount of eur 47,777 thousand
      in fiscal year 2015 (previous year: eur 42,932 thousand) is reported in cost of sales and, where this
      relates to discontinued operations, in profit or loss from discontinued operations.

      market-related intangible assets amounting to eur 86,015 thousand (previous year: eur 48,423
      thousand) are not amortized because their useful life cannot be determined. these assets are
      company and product names of the acquired companies. these are established brands in their
      respective sectors and will continue to be used indefinitely after the company in question has been
      acquired.

      the carrying amount of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is broken down as follow

                                                                    12/31/2015                                12/31/2014
                                                          carrying amount     proportion of total   carrying amount     proportion of total
      segment                                              (eur thousand)   carrying amount (%)      (eur thousand)   carrying amount (%)
      ba equipment                                                45,364                    52.7            33,599                    69.4
      ba solutions                                                40,651                    47.3            14,824                    30.6
      total                                                       86,015                  100.0             48,423                   100.0



      these brands are tested for impairment at least once a year. for this purpose, their internal value in
      use is determined using the relief from royalty method. under this approach, the value of a brand is
      calculated on the basis of the future royalties that gea group would have to pay if it had to license
      the brands from third parties. the brand-related revenue is multiplied by the estimated license fee
      installments. the brand-related revenue is derived from the medium-term planning prepared by the
      executive board. the supervisory board has taken note of the corresponding plans. the assumed
      license fee installments generally correspond to those of the initial measurement. the payments
      saved calculated in this way are then discounted using a brand-specific pre-tax discount rate.
      valuation is based on the following assumptions:


      (%)                                                                                                     12/31/2015       12/31/2014
      discount rate                                                                                          7,94 - 16,30     7,46 - 12,22
      royalty rate                                                                                            0,50 - 3,00      0,50 - 3,00



      the impairment test performed at the end of the year led to a writedown in the amount of eur 3,892
      thousand (previous year: reversal of eur 118 thousand). of this sum, eur 1,213 thousand was
      attributable to the business area equipment, and eur 2,679 thousand to the business area solutions.




172                                                     gea annual report 2015

             notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets




6.5           equity-accounted investments

the relevant figures for equity-accounted investments are based on the most recently available
annual financial statements.

the respective carrying amounts and the share of the profit of equity-accounted investments are
insignificant in relation to the group’s total assets and profit.

associates
equity-accounted associates are reported at a carrying amount of eur 2,026 thousand as of
december 31, 2015 (previous year: eur 2,093 thousand).

the share of the profit or loss of equity-accounted associates is as follows:

                                                                                              01/01/2015 -   01/01/2014 -
(eur thousand)                                                                                 12/31/2015     12/31/2014
profit/loss from continuing operations                                                                145          1,644
other comprehensive income                                                                              –             –2
total profit/loss                                                                                     145          1,642



joint ventures
equity-accounted joint ventures are reported at a carrying amount of eur 14,605 thousand as of
december 31, 2015 (previous year: eur 13,200 thousand).

the share of the profit or loss of equity-accounted joint ventures is as follows:

                                                                                              01/01/2015 -   01/01/2014 -
(eur thousand)                                                                                 12/31/2015     12/31/2014
profit/loss from continuing operations                                                              2,404          2,640
total profit/loss                                                                                   2,404          2,640




6.6           other financial assets

other financial assets are composed of the following items:


(eur thousand)                                                                                 12/31/2015      12/31/2014
investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries and other equity investments                            21,746         24,758
other securities                                                                                    9,311          8,517
derivative financial instruments                                                                      152            447
miscellaneous other financial assets                                                                5,245         29,711
other non-current financial assets                                                                 36,454         63,433
other securities                                                                                   37,000         37,036
derivative financial instruments                                                                    7,424         20,564
miscellaneous other financial assets                                                              327,865        333,025
other current financial assets                                                                   372,289         390,625
total                                                                                            408,743         454,058



eur 37,000 thousand (previous year: eur 37,036 thousand) of the other securities is attributable to a
listed, variable-rate bond with a very good rating.




                                                             gea annual report 2015                                         173

                   notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets




      derivative financial instruments
      derivative financial instruments are explained in section 7.8.

      miscellaneous other financial assets
      miscellaneous other financial assets with a carrying amount of eur 333,110 thousand (previous
      year: eur 362,736 thousand) were recognized as of the reporting date. they are broken down into
      non-current and current assets as follows:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                 12/31/2015      12/31/2014
      other receivables from unconsolidated subsidiaries                                                    67              99
      other receivables from equity investments                                                            790           1,300
      receivables from tax authorities                                                                     448             469
      sundry miscellaneous other financial assets                                                        3,940          27,843
      other non-current financial assets                                                                 5,245          29,711
      other receivables from unconsolidated subsidiaries                                                 3,520           3,887
      other receivables from equity investments                                                         12,188          12,862
      other receivables from tax authorities                                                            45,013          51,823
      fixed term deposits                                                                              200,000         199,961
      sundry miscellaneous other financial assets                                                       67,144          64,492
      other current financial assets                                                                   327,865         333,025
      total                                                                                            333,110         362,736



      receivables from tax authorities primarily comprise vat receivables.

      eur 25,000 thousand of the additions to miscellaneous other non-current financial assets is
      attributable to an advance payment made in fiscal year 2014 for the acquisition of dutch group de
      klokslag which was concluded in 2015 (see section 5.5).

      miscellaneous other financial assets include prepaid expenses totaling eur 24,033 thousand
      (previous year: eur 27,559 thousand).

      the maturity structure of miscellaneous other financial assets is as follow:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                  12/31/2015     12/31/2014
      carrying amount before impairment losses                                                            73,223        94,447
      impairment losses                                                                                    2,139         2,112
      carrying amount                                                                                     71,084        92,335
      thereof not overdue at the reporting date                                                           70,773        91,435
      thereof past due at reporting date                                                                     311           900
                                                                less than 30 days                            191           519
                                                                between 31 and 60 days                        42            34
                                                                between 61 and 90 days                        18             –
                                                                between 91 and 180 days                       18             –
                                                                between 181 and 360 days                      11             –
                                                                more than 360 days                            31           347




174                                                        gea annual report 2015

             notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets




6.7          inventories
inventories are composed of the following items:


(eur thousand)                                                                                  12/31/2015     12/31/2014
raw materials, consumables, and supplies                                                           133,370       134,978
work in progress                                                                                    94,778       100,348
assets for third parties under construction                                                         17,911        19,407
finished goods and merchandise                                                                     273,572       279,894
advance payments                                                                                    28,992        27,248
total                                                                                              548,623       561,875



inventories of eur 2,839 million were recognized as an expense in fiscal year 2015 (previous year:
eur 2,759 million). impairment losses on inventories were eur 11,694 thousand in the reporting
period (previous year: eur 12,613 thousand). impairment losses on inventories in previous years
amounting to eur 2,432 thousand (previous year: eur 2,502 thousand) were reversed due to
increased market prices. the reversals were recognized in cost of sales.

6.8          trade receivables
trade receivables are composed of the following items:


(eur thousand)                                                                                  12/31/2015     12/31/2014
trade receivables                                                                                  781,209       691,440
 of which from third parties                                                                       766,856       677,931
 thereof from unconsolidated subsidiaries                                                           14,353        13,509
gross amount due from customers for contract work                                                  336,872       254,315
total                                                                                            1,118,081       945,755



trade receivables include receivables of eur 4,636 thousand (previous year: eur 1,925 thousand)
that will not be realized until more than one year after the reporting date. bad debt allowances on
trade receivables totaled eur 49,031 thousand (previous year: eur 44,752 thousand).

the average payment period and volume of receivables outstanding are in line with the general
market.

the maturity structure of trade receivables – with the exception of receivables from unconsolidated
subsidiaries – is as follows


(eur thousand)                                                                                  12/31/2015     12/31/2014
carrying amount before impairment losses                                                           815,887       722,683
impairment losses                                                                                   49,031        44,752
carrying amount                                                                                    766,856       677,931
thereof not overdue at the reporting date                                                          549,262       496,742
thereof past due at reporting date                                                                 217,594       181,189
                                                         less than 30 days                          95,825        90,234
                                                         between 31 and 60 days                     38,756        29,869
                                                         between 61 and 90 days                     21,411        15,654
                                                         between 91 and 180 days                    28,928        20,307
                                                         between 181 and 360 days                   18,145        11,898
                                                         more than 360 days                         14,529        13,227




                                                    gea annual report 2015                                                  175

                    notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: assets




      construction contracts
      the gross amount due from and to customers for contract work is composed of the following items:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                  12/31/2015      12/31/2014
      capitalized production cost of construction contracts                                            2,630,119      2,260,885
       plus net gain from construction contracts                                                        475,814         441,593
       less anticipated losses                                                                            8,740           6,310
       less progress billings                                                                          3,085,790      2,696,781
      total                                                                                              11,403            –613
      gross amount due from customers for contract work (included in trade receivables)                 336,872         254,315
      gross amount due to customers for contract work (included in other liabilities)                  –325,469        –254,928
      total                                                                                              11,403            –613



      advance payments received on construction contracts amounted to eur 32,758 thousand at
      december 31, 2015 (previous year: eur 28,513 thousand). customer retention money amounted to
      eur 9,680 thousand (previous year: eur 8,768 thousand). revenue of eur 2,160,765 thousand
      (previous year: eur 2,207,366 thousand) was generated from construction contracts in the reporting
      period.

      6.9           income tax receivables
      income tax receivables amounted to eur 26,082 thousand at the reporting date (previous year:
      eur 17,531 thousand). as in the previous year, the full amount is due within one year.

      6.10 cash and cash equivalents
      cash and cash equivalents were composed of the following items at the reporting date:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                  12/31/2015      12/31/2014
      unrestricted cash                                                                                1,172,778      1,194,437
      restricted cash                                                                                     1,372           1,421
      total                                                                                           1,174,150       1,195,858



      cash and cash equivalents comprise cash funds and overnight deposits. restricted cash mainly
      consists of bank deposits.
      during the year, the standard market interest rate for short-term bank deposits in the eurozone lay
      between 0.0 and 0.6 percent (previous year: between 0.0 and 0.5 percent). the average interest rate as
      of the end of the year is 0.2 percent (previous year: 0.3 percent).




176                                                                 gea annual report 2015

    notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




7.            consolidated balance sheet disclosures:
              equity and liabilities
7.1           equity
subscribed capital
the subscribed capital of gea group aktiengesellschaft was unchanged compared with the previous
year at eur 520,376 thousand as of december 31, 2015. as in the previous year, the shares are composed
of 192,495,476 no-par value bearer shares. all the shares are fully paid up.

as in the previous year, the shares have a notional value of eur 2.70 each (rounded).

all shares convey the same rights. shareholders are entitled to receive dividends as declared and are
entitled to one vote per share at the annual general meeting.

authorized capital

                                                    annual general meeting
(eur thousand)                                                   resolution           expiring on   amount (eur thousand)
authorized capital i                                         april 24, 2012        april 23, 2017                 77,000
authorized capital ii                                        april 16, 2015        april 15, 2020                130,000
authorized capital iii                                       april 16, 2015        april 15, 2020                 52,000
total                                                                                                            259,000



in the case of the authorized capital i and in accordance with article 4(3) of the articles of association,
the executive board is authorized, with the approval of the supervisory board, to increase the share
capital by up to eur 77 million by issuing new no-par value shares against cash contributions on one or
more occasions until april 23, 2017 (authorized capital i) and, in accordance with article 5(4) of the
articles of association, to define a starting date for profit rights in this case that differs from the date
stipulated by law. the executive board is also entitled, with the approval of the supervisory board, to
exclude fractions from shareholders’ preemptive rights. the new shares may also be underwritten by
banks with the obligation of offering them to the shareholders for subscription (indirect subscription
right).

in the case of the authorized capital ii and in accordance with article 4(4) of the articles of association,
the executive board is authorized, with the approval of the supervisory board, to increase the share
capital, wholly or in part, by up to eur 130 million by issuing new no-par value shares against cash
and/or non-cash contributions on one or more occasions until april 15, 2020 (authorized capital ii)
and, in accordance with article 5(4) of the articles of association, to define a starting date for profit
rights in this case that differs from the date stipulated by law. the statutory subscription right may
also be granted by the new shares being underwritten by one or more banks with the obligation of
offering them to the shareholders for subscription (indirect subscription right). the executive board
is authorized, with the approval of the supervisory board, to disapply shareholders’ preemptive
rights in the case of capital increases against noncash contributions for the purpose of business
combinations or the acquisition of companies, parts of companies, or equity interests in companies
or other assets. the executive board is further authorized, with the approval of the supervisory
board, to disapply shareholders’ preemptive rights (i) in order to implement a so-called scrip dividend
where the shareholders of gea group aktiengesellschaft are given the option of contributing their
dividend entitlement either wholly or partially to the company as a noncash contribution in return for the
granting of new shares, (ii) insofar as it is necessary to eliminate fractional amounts, and (iii) in order to




                                               gea annual report 2015                                                       177

          notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      grant the creditors of convertible or option bonds with option or conversion privileges or obligations
      issued by gea group aktiengesellschaft or a subordinate group company of the company a right to
      subscribe to new shares to the extent to which they would be entitled after exercising the option or
      conversion rights or after fulfilling conversion obligations. the total proportionate amount of gea
      group aktiengesellschaft’s share capital allocable to shares issued against cash and/or noncash
      contributions under disapplication of shareholders’ preemptive rights must not exceed 10 percent of
      the company’s share capital at the time when the resolution was adopted by the annual general
      meeting. finally, the executive board is authorized, with the approval of the supervisory board, to
      stipulate the further details of the capital increases from authorized capital ii and the terms and
      conditions of the share issue.

      in the case of the authorized capital i and in accordance with article 4(5) of the articles of
      association, the executive board is authorized, with the approval of the supervisory board, to
      increase the share capital by up to eur 52 million by issuing new no-par value shares against cash
      contributions on one or more occasions until april 15, 2020 (authorized capital iii) and, in
      accordance with article 5(4) of the articles of association, to define a starting date for profit rights in
      this case that differs from the date stipulated by law. the statutory subscription right may also be
      granted by the new shares being underwritten by one or more banks with the obligation of offering
      them to the shareholders for subscription (indirect subscription right). the executive board is
      authorized, with the approval of the supervisory board, to exclude shareholders’ subscription rights
      if the issue price of the new shares is not significantly lower than the stock exchange price for
      company shares of the same kind at the time of setting the issue price. in line with the modalities of
      this disapplication of preemptive rights, the shares issued in accordance with section 203(1) and
      section 186(3) no. 4 of the aktg (german stock corporation act) may not exceed 10% of the share
      capital of the company either at the time at which this authorization takes effect or at the time at
      which it is exercised (upper limit). the upper limit of 10% shall be reduced by the proportionate
      amount of the share capital allocable to shares (i) issued during the term of the authorized capital iii
      under disapplication of preemptive rights in accordance with section 71(1) no. 8 sentence 5, and
      section 186(3) sentence 4 of the aktg (german stock corporation act) or (ii) issued to service
      convertible or option bonds with option or conversion privileges or obligations issued by gea group
      aktiengesellschaft or a subordinate group company of the company, as long as the convertible or
      option bonds have been issued during the term of the authorized capital iii under disapplication of
      preemptive rights in accordance with section 186(3) sentence of the 4 aktg. the executive board is
      further authorized, with the approval of the supervisory board, to disapply shareholders’ preemptive
      rights (i) insofar as it is necessary to eliminate fractional amounts, and (ii) in order to grant the
      creditors of convertible or option bonds with option or conversion privileges or obligations issued by
      gea group aktiengesellschaft or a subordinate group company of the company a right to subscribe
      to new shares to the extent to which they would be entitled after exercising the option or conversion
      rights or after fulfilling conversion obligations. finally, the executive board is authorized, with the
      approval of the supervisory board, to stipulate the further details of the capital increases from
      authorized capital iii and the terms and conditions of the share issue.

      contingent capital


      (eur thousand)                                                                                         12/31/2015   12/31/2014
      bonds with warrants and convertible bonds according annual general meeting resolution april 16, 2015      51,904            –
      bonds with warrants and convertible bonds according annual general meeting resolution april 21, 2010           –       48,660
      total                                                                                                     51,904       48,660




178                                                             gea annual report 2015

   notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




under a resolution adopted by the annual general meeting on april 16, 2015, the share capital was
contingently increased by up to eur 51,903,633.82, comprising up to 19,200,000 million bearer shares
(article 4(6) of the articles of association, contingent capital 2015). the contingent capital increase
will only be implemented to the extent that the holders of conversion or option privileges from
convertible bonds or option bonds, profit participation rights or profit participating bonds or a
combination of these instruments issued against cash contributions by gea group aktiengesellschaft
or a subordinate group company of the company on the basis of the authorization by the annual
general meeting resolution dated april 16, 2015 exercise their conversion or option privileges, or, if
they are obliged to convert or exercise options, satisfy their obligation to convert or exercise options,
and if no cash settlement is granted or own shares or shares of another listed company are used in
settlement. new shares will be issued at the conversion or option price to be determined in each case
in accordance with the authorizing resolution referred to above. the new shares bear dividend rights
from the beginning of the fiscal year in which they were created as a result of the exercising of
conversion or option privileges or the fulfillment of conversion or option obligations. the executive
board is authorized, with the approval of the supervisory board, to determine the further details of
the implementation of the contingent capital increase.

as in the previous year, no bonds with warrants or convertible bonds were issued in fiscal year 2015.

capital reserves
capital reserves primarily reflect the effects from the business combination of the former metall­
gesellschaft aktiengesellschaft and the former gea ag as well as premiums from issuing shares of
the former metallgesellschaft ag.

capital reserves were unchanged compared with the previous year at eur 1,217,861 thousand. in the
previous year, capital reserves had increased by eur 21 thousand due to the offsetting of income
from an employee share-based payment plan in south africa attributable to the gea hx segment,
which was sold on october 31, 2014.

retained earnings
the changes in retained earnings and net retained profits are reported in the statement of changes in
equity. actuarial gains and losses on the measurement of non-current employee benefit obligations
are included in retained earnings.
the distribution of profits is based on the annual financial statements of gea group
aktiengesellschaft prepared in accordance with the hgb.

accumulated other comprehensive income
changes in equity outside profit or loss are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income if
they do not relate to capital transactions with shareholders. other comprehensive income comprises
the gains or losses on financial assets measured at fair value and recognized directly in equity, the
effective portion of the change in fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, and
exchange rate gains or losses from the translation of the financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.




                                              gea annual report 2015                                                 179

          notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      noncontrolling interests
      noncontrolling interests in gea group companies amounted to eur 570 thousand (previous year:
      eur 560 thousand).

      in the previous year, changes in accumulated other comprehensive income amounting to
      eur 64 thousand were attributable to noncontrolling interests. of this amount, eur 62 thousand
      resulted from currency differences on translating foreign operations.

      7.2           provisions
      the following table shows the composition of and changes in provisions in 2015:

                                                               financial                            environmental
                                               guarantees,   guarantee     litigation     follow-      protection,       other
      (eur thousand)                            warranties    contracts          risks   up costs          mining    provisions      total
      balance at jan. 1, 2015                      70,895      16,023        20,464      22,525           59,065       91,448     280,420
       thereof non-current                         10,134       10,190        8,344        5,917          58,919       38,088     131,592
       thereof current                             60,761        5,833       12,120      16,608               146      53,360     148,828
      additions                                    51,638          287        5,322      15,075             6,455      39,306     118,083
      utilization                                 –45,833       –1,601       –8,678      –10,696          –2,270      –33,834     –102,912
      reversal                                    –12,323       –3,409         –247       –2,620                –     –14,310      –32,909
      changes in consolidated group                   719             –          123         332                –       1,493        2,667
      unwinding of discount                             –             –          –27           –            8,431          –65       8,339
      exchange differences                          1,644            –1        –120          224                7         325        2,079
      balance at dec. 31, 2015                     66,740      11,299        16,837      24,840           71,688       84,363     275,767
       thereof non-current                         11,149       10,190        6,644        3,425          71,609       42,143     145,160
       thereof current                             55,591        1,109       10,193       21,415               79      42,220     130,607


      provisions for guarantees and warranties
      provisions for guarantees and warranties relate to warranty commitments for products and equipment.
      as is customary in the industry, the guarantees and warranties on which they are based are granted in
      connection with certain performance criteria relating to products or equipment (e.g., guaranteed output
      volume, quality of product manufactured). warranties usually have a contractual term of between one
      and two years from the date on which the products or equipment are accepted. in addition to warranties
      explicitly agreed under contract, product liability rules apply in many sales countries and may also
      stipulate that the manufacturer is liable beyond the contractually defined term of the warranty. in some
      cases, recourse claims exist in the form of insurance refunds or subcontractor guarantees. the level of
      provisions is based on management’s best estimate. as of december 31, 2015, refund claims amounting to
      eur 385 thousand (previous year: eur 413 thousand) against nongroup third parties were recognized.
      gea group expects to settle most of the provisions for guarantees and warranties in the coming year.

      provisions for financial guarantee contracts
      provisions for financial guarantee contracts comprise obligations under indemnification agreements
      as well as warranties and undertakings relating to the sale of business activities. the changes in these
      provisions in fiscal year 2015 are primarily due to the resolution of uncertainties relating to risks
      from the sale of the plant engineering activities. an outflow of approximately 10 percent of the
      provisions for financial guarantee contracts is expected in fiscal year 2016.




180                                                  gea annual report 2015

    notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




litigation risks
provisions are recognized for risks arising from expected or pending litigation against gea group
companies if it is believed that there is likely to be an unfavorable outcome to the proceedings.
assessments by counsel for the company or legal experts were used to determine the likelihood of
such litigation. the probable damages or sanctions have been recognized as a liability. the timing of
cash outflows relating to provisions for litigation risks often cannot be reliably determined.

follow-up costs
this item comprises the cost of residual work that is incurred after a contract has already been
invoiced and the profit from the contract has been recognized. the amount of the expected cost is
stated. payments are made almost in their entirety in the following year.

environmental protection, mining
this item mainly comprises provisions for the clean-up of pit water from past mining activities and
for the clean-up of other instances of groundwater contamination. the law is still unclear as to the
amount and duration of the company’s obligation to clean up pit and ground water. the obligations
are expected to extend to well beyond 2030.

other provisions
other provisions comprise provisions for a range of individual items. around 50 percent of other
provisions are expected to be settled in fiscal year 2015.

7.3           employee benefit obligations
employee benefit obligations comprise the following items:


(eur thousand)                                                                                 12/31/2015    12/31/2014
obligations under pension plans and supplementary healthcare benefits                            744,914       760,645
 thereof defined benefit pension plans                                                           726,349       741,350
 thereof obligations under supplementary healthcare benefits                                      15,403        16,419
 thereof defined contribution pension plans                                                         3,162        2,876
other employee benefit obligations                                                                  3,573        3,569
partial retirement                                                                                10,265         8,163
jubilee benefits                                                                                    9,172        8,705
redundancy plan and severance payments                                                              2,602        2,282
other non-current obligations to employees                                                          5,068       10,201
non-current employee benefit obligations                                                         775,594       793,565
redundancy plan and severance payments                                                            88,700         8,926
outstanding vacation, flexitime/overtime credits                                                  56,436        57,307
bonuses                                                                                           78,596        84,388
other current obligations to employees                                                            20,503        20,016
current employee benefit obligations                                                             244,235       170,637
total employee benefit obligations                                                              1,019,829      964,202




                                                               gea annual report 2015                                     181

         notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      the rise in employee benefit obligations is largely due to restructuring measures in the context of the
      “fit for 2020” initiative (see section 8.4). as of december 31, 2015, the corresponding obligations with
      regard to severance payments and redundancy packages amounted to eur 85,347 thousand (previous
      year: eur 0 thousand), eur 83,337 thousand of which will be reported in current employee benefit
      obligations.

      7.3.1    obligations under defined benefit pension plans and
               supplementary healthcare benefits
      wherever possible, defined benefit pension obligations and obligations under supplementary
      healthcare benefits are disclosed below in the aggregate and explained together.

      furthermore, the amounts presented include assets held for sale and liabilities held for sale. in the
      previous year, where a reconciliation to line items in the financial statements is required, this is
      presented in a separate line as “reclassified as held for sale.”

      all obligations were actuarially valued as of december 31, 2015, and as of december 31, 2014.

      defined benefit pension plans
      gea group employees are offered various benefit options, mainly in the form of defined benefit and
      defined contribution pension plans.

      defined benefit pension plan obligations exist in germany and, outside of germany, mainly in the
      u.s.a., switzerland, and the united kingdom. in addition, other foreign companies have typical
      country-specific pension plans that are funded in part by plan assets. benefits and investments
      correspond to the country-specific economic environment and requirements.

      gea group views granting pension benefits as an opportunity to foster employee loyalty and
      engagement. it is therefore a standard feature of the remuneration concept and has an employee
      contribution component, where this is appropriate. in connection with this, gea group monitors
      developments on the human resources market and regularly checks that the benefits it grants are
      appropriate and in line with the market.

      gea group does not believe that the pension obligations pose any risks over and above the
      customary extent and the general risks described.

      pension benefits in germany
      in germany, gea group grants old-age, disability, and survivors’ benefits to many of its employees.
      new employees are generally only granted benefits that are partly funded by employee contributions.

      as part of the general benefits provided, all employees have the opportunity to voluntarily defer part
      of their compensation. under this arrangement, an agreed amount of their salary plus an employer
      contribution of up to 100 percent of the deferred amount is converted into a pension benefit. a
      corresponding collective bargaining agreement was entered into in 2002 and revised in 2008.




182                                                 gea annual report 2015

  notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




up to now, managers have received benefits comprising an income-related employer-funded basic
amount, an employer-funded top-up, and a matching amount funded through deferred compensation
with an employer contribution of up to one-third of the deferred amount. the additional contributions
from the top-up and matching amounts are determined annually and converted into a pension benefit by
the employer. these commitments are granted in the form of identical individual commitments.

for both commitments, the post-retirement benefits are adjusted by 1 percent each year.

for the most part, gea’s executive pension scheme was converted to an asset-backed commitment in
the form of a defined benefit pension plan with effect from january 1, 2015. the plan assets are
managed under a contractual trust arrangement (cta) and invested in mixed funds. the size of the
employer’s contributions to the plan assets depends on the size of the fixed salaries of the
beneficiaries. beneficiaries can also contribute from their own income by means of deferred
compensation. the beneficiaries are then entitled to the net earnings generated by the plan assets.
there is also a notional premium guarantee.

entitlements from the earlier executive pension scheme remain valid, and fewer beneficiaries will
remain in that scheme.

in addition to the currently open benefit plans, there are a number of historical pension plans in the
company. these plans are generally closed to new employees, but are maintained unchanged for
employees who were members at the time the plan was closed. these include obligations under
“bochumer verband” and “essener verband” as well as obligations established independently by their
predecessors.

the pension obligations are partly funded by pension liability insurances.

pension benefits outside germany
pension benefits outside germany mainly exist in the u.s.a., the united kingdom, and switzerland.

in the u.s.a., there are pension obligations from various pension plans that were closed in succession
up to december 31, 2000. no further benefits are earned from a defined benefit pension plan for
periods of service after the respective closure date. old-age and survivors’ benefits accrued at the
closure date of the respective plan were fixed on the basis of pensionable income at the closure date.
benefits may be paid out in the form of annuities or lump-sum payments. existing pension
obligations are partly funded by plan assets. the assets are held separately from the company in an
external trust. the companies have appointed independent trustees in accordance with statutory
provisions to manage the funding of obligations and the investment of assets according to the
company’s specifications. any funding deficit is established annually in accordance with legal
requirements and spread over a fixed time period if required. the statutory basis for minimum funding
was last amended in 2012 by the moving ahead for progress in the 21st century act (map–21).

in the united kingdom, there are pension obligations from two uk pension plans, one of which has
been closed for a number of years and applies exclusively to former employees. the second plan is
closed to new employees, but continues to provide old-age and survivors’ benefits to the currently
active participants based on pensionable income in the year before the employment relationship
ends; these benefits are funded by salary-dependent employee contributions to plan assets. the




                                             gea annual report 2015                                                 183

         notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      accrued entitlements and current benefits in the united kingdom are adjusted in accordance with
      statutory requirements on the basis of inflation. pension obligations from both plans are partly
      funded by plan assets. the companies appointed independent trustees in accordance with statutory
      provisions to manage the funding of obligations and the investment of assets according to the
      company’s specifications. company pension plans are valued every three years in accordance with
      legal requirements, and any deficit is established. if the plan is underfunded, the trustee prepares a
      funding plan to regulate the funding of the deficit, taking account of the actuary’s recommendation
      and the type and circumstances of the respective plan.

      in switzerland, there are pension obligations from the second pillar of the swiss pension system, the
      compulsory occupational pension plan. implementation is by means of foundations that are independent
      from the companies; employers and employees pay income-dependent contributions to the foundations.
      interest is applied, in accordance with legal provisions, to the individual amounts saved, and on
      retirement the total is converted into an old-age, invalidity, and survivor’s pension based on
      predetermined annuity tables. investment and management of the assets is guided by the statutory
      provisions on occupational pension plans. due to significant legal requirements concerning the design
      of pension plans, companies only have a small number of options available to them for varying the
      design (e.g., level of employee contribution, level of contributions according to age band). a board of
      trustees, comprising employer and employee representatives, decides on the distribution of surpluses,
      or on changes to the design of the plan within the legal framework. the plans come under the bundes­
      gesetz über die berufliche vorsorge (bvg – swiss federal law on occupational benefits), which
      regulates the minimum benefits to be provided by companies by defining the minimum contributions
      required and the returns on them. the gea group companies that are affected by this have insured
      their employees with the axa winterthur group foundation. all employers may have to contribute
      “stabilization payments” if there is insufficient cover for the obligations. no “stabilization plan” is
      required at present as the cover is currently sufficient.

      supplementary healthcare benefits
      in addition to occupational pension benefits, certain retired employees are granted health insurance
      subsidies. new entitlements to health insurance subsidies are no longer granted. there are now only
      a few employees with such benefits in active employment. existing obligations are not funded by
      plan assets. gea group does not see these benefits posing a particular risk due to the low level of the
      obligations.

      obligations under supplementary healthcare benefits relate solely to germany.




184                                                 gea annual report 2015

     notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




provisions and funded status
the changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation, the plan assets, and the provisions
were as follows:

                                                                                              12/31/2015                12/31/2014
(eur thousand)                                                                             germany other countries   germany other countries
present value of defined benefit obligation at beginning of fiscal year                    724,943         181,633   635,469         150,954
current service cost                                                                        13,926           3,349    11,508           2,890
interest cost from discounting unwinding on obligations                                     14,113           5,305    20,059           5,279
employee contributions                                                                            –           842           –           866
remeasurement of present value of obligation                                                –7,284           1,626   114,688          22,777
 actuarial gains (losses) from changes in demographic assumptions                                 –         –1,038          –          4,615
 actuarial gains (losses) resulting from changes in financial assumptions                   –6,095             71    113,133          17,277
 actuarial gains (losses) resulting from experience adjustments                             –1,189           2,593     1,555            885
past service cost                                                                           –4,568         –10,886          –         –1,863
gains and losses from settlements                                                                 –          –411           –              –
payments without settlements                                                               –31,121          –9,900   –32,241          –6,007
payments in respect of any settlements                                                            –        –12,398          –              –
transfer of assets                                                                          –1,470               –          –              –
changes in combined group due to acquisitions                                                6,972           1,600   –24,540          –3,209
other changes in consolidated group                                                           –259               –          –              –
currency translation                                                                              –         13,558          –          9,946
present value of defined benefit obligation at end of fiscal year                          715,252         174,318   724,943         181,633
fair value of plan assets at beginning of the fiscal year                                   20,222         128,585    17,956         109,746
interest income on plan assets                                                                 417           3,812       568           4,011
employer contributions                                                                       3,236           5,695     2,341           5,558
employee contributions                                                                            –           842           –           866
remeasurement: return from plan assets in excess/shortage of interest income                  –109          –1,762       562           7,468
gains and losses on settlements                                                                   –              –          –           –19
payments without settlements                                                                  –959          –8,978      –962          –5,081
payments in respect of any settlements                                                            –        –12,398          –              –
changes in consolidated group due to acquisitions                                                 –              –      –243          –1,109
currency translation                                                                              –         10,012          –          7,145
fair value of plan assets at the end of fiscal year                                         22,807         125,808    20,222         128,585
funded status/net carrying amount                                                          692,445          48,510   704,721          53,048
net carrying amount                                                                        692,445          48,510   704,721          53,048
 thereof net assets                                                                               –           797           –           168
 thereof net liability                                                                     692,445          49,307   704,721          53,216



past service cost includes income from pension obligations of eur 9.9 million arising from the
closure of a business location. when calculating operating ebit for segment reporting, this effect was
adjusted for, as managment believes it will not be incurred to the same extent in future fiscal years
(“non-recurring items”, see section 10.2.). in this context, payments for settlements in the amount of
eur 11.2 million were incurred.

the changes in the consolidated group due to acquisitions and disposals in fiscal year 2014 are
attributable solely to the sale of the gea heat exchangers segment.




                                                                  gea annual report 2015                                                       185

          notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      the net carrying amount of obligations under defined benefit pension plans and supplementary
      healthcare benefits changed as follows in fiscal years 2015 and 2014:

                                                                                                 12/31/2015                12/31/2014
      (eur thousand)                                                                          germany other countries   germany other countries
      net carrying amount at beginning of fiscal year                                         704,721         53,048    617,513         41,208
      changes through profit or loss                                                           23,054          –6,455    30,999           2,314
       current service cost                                                                    13,926           3,349    11,508           2,890
       past service cost                                                                       –4,568         –10,886          –         –1,863
       gains and losses on settlements                                                               –          –411           –            19
       net interest on net defined benefit liability                                           13,696           1,493    19,491           1,268
      changes through oci                                                                      –7,175           3,388   114,126          15,288
       return from plan assets in excess interest income                                          109           1,762      –562          –7,468
       actuarial gains (losses) from changes in demographic assumptions                              –         –1,038          –          4,592
       actuarial gains (losses) resulting from changes in financial assumptions                –6,095             71    113,133          17,278
       actuarial gains (losses) resulting from experience adjustments                          –1,189           2,593     1,555            886
      cash-effective changes                                                                  –33,398          –6,617   –33,620          –6,484
       employer contributions                                                                  –3,236          –5,695    –2,341          –5,558
       payments without settlements                                                           –30,162           –922    –31,279           –926
       payments in respect of any settlements                                                        –             –           –             –
      other changes                                                                             5,243           5,146   –24,297            722
       transfer of assets                                                                      –1,470              –           –             –
       changes in consolidated group due to acquisitions                                        6,972           1,600   –24,297          –2,100
       other changes in consolidated group                                                       –259              –           –             –
       currency translation                                                                          –          3,546          –          2,822
      funded status/net carrying amount                                                       692,445         48,510    704,721         53,048
      net carrying amount                                                                     692,445         48,510    704,721         53,048



      the following overview shows the net carrying amount broken down into plans with and without
      plan assets:

                                                                                                 12/31/2015                12/31/2014
      (eur thousand)                                                                          germany other countries   germany other countries
      present value of funded obligations                                                     179,854         160,318   174,299         168,603
      fair value of plan assets                                                                22,807         125,808    20,222         128,585
      funded status/net carrying amount of funded obligations                                 157,047         34,510    154,077         40,018
      present value of unfunded obligations                                                   535,398          14,000   550,644          13,030
      funded status/net carrying amount of unfunded obligations                               535,398         14,000    550,644         13,030
      funded status/net carrying amount                                                       692,445         48,510    704,721         53,048
      reclassification as held for sale                                                                                        –              –
      net carrying amount                                                                     692,445         48,510    704,721         53,048



      as in the previous year, no asset ceiling in accordance with ias 19.64 (b) applies. in addition, there
      are no reimbursement claims within the meaning of ias 19.116.




186                                                                  gea annual report 2015

    notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




the following overview shows the present value of the defined benefit obligation broken down into
active employees, former employees with terminated vested benefits, and benefit recipients:

                                                                            12/31/2015                12/31/2014
(eur thousand)                                                           germany other countries   germany other countries
active employees                                                          220,907         77,099   229,306          80,599
vested terminated employees                                                99,496         39,449    93,535          41,692
pensioners                                                                394,849         57,770   402,102          59,342
total                                                                     715,252        174,318   724,943         181,633


plan assets
the plan assets used to cover the pension obligations were as follows at the respective reporting
dates:

                                                                            12/31/2015                12/31/2014
(percent)                                                                germany other countries   germany other countries
quoted prices in active markets                                             8.3%          62.6%       4.4%          74.9%
 equity instruments                                                         0.9%          24.4%       1.2%          27.8%
 debt instruments                                                           2.8%          34.4%       3.2%          36.7%
 other                                                                      4.6%           3.8%       0.0%          10.4%
no quoted prices in active marktes                                         91.7%          37.4%     95.6%           25.1%
 equity instruments                                                         0.0%           0.7%       0.0%           0.7%
 debt instruments                                                           0.0%           0.4%       0.0%           0.4%
 real estate                                                                0.0%           0.2%       0.0%           1.7%
 insurance                                                                 91.6%          36.1%     95.4%           21.5%
 other                                                                      0.1%           0.0%       0.2%           0.8%
total                                                                     100.0%         100.0%    100.0%          100.0%



particularly in germany, gea group has decided to utilize the internal financing effect of the pension
provisions and supplementary healthcare benefits and only to fund a relatively small proportion of
the pension obligations using plan assets.

in the u.s.a., the united kingdom, and switzerland, a large proportion of the pension obligations is
funded by plan assets in accordance with the legal framework. the above table shows how the plan
assets have been invested. a proportion of both the german and foreign plan assets is managed by
insurance companies in accordance with their specific investment guidelines. in germany, this is the
predominant form of investment for plan assets. part of the plan assets of german pension plans is
also managed by pension funds and an endowment fund, and is mainly invested in fixed-income
securities and term deposits, with only a relatively small proportion invested in equities. the
objective of these external investments is to ensure secure returns and preserve the value of the
underlying assets in order to fund current and future pension benefits. there are currently no plans
to change this investment strategy.

assets invested in the capital markets are exposed to general capital market and investment risk.
gea group is constantly monitoring market trends and has developed corresponding investment
policies that adequately balance risk and income expectations, while taking the respective statutory
and regulatory frameworks into account.

in fiscal year 2016, eur 4,194 thousand is expected to be added to the plan assets of german pension
plans and eur 4,445 thousand to plans outside germany.

the actual return on plan assets in 2015 was eur 2,358 thousand (previous year: eur 12,607 thousand).




                                               gea annual report 2015                                                        187

          notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      actuarial assumptions
      as of the relevant reporting date, the following weighted actuarial assumptions were used to
      calculate the present value of the defined benefit obligations. these assumptions are used to calculate
      net pension expenses in the following year.

                                                                                          12/31/2015                12/31/2014
      (percent)                                                                        germany other countries   germany other countries
      discount factor                                                                      2.00          3.04        2.00          3.67
      inflation                                                                            1.70          0.88        1.80          1.58
       derived: wage and salary growth rate                                                2.70          1.00        2.80          1.11
       derived: pension growth rate                                                        1.43          0.23        1.50          0.48
       derived: growth rate in cost of health care benefits                                3.45             –        3.55             –



      the actuarial measurement factors for german plans are established by gea group in consultation
      with actuarial experts. the corresponding assumptions for plans outside germany are determined
      taking into account country-specific conditions with the help of local experts in consultation with the
      global experts and gea group. the discount rate is established using a recognized method based on
      the return on high quality corporate bonds determined as of the reporting date, taking into account
      the currency and maturities of the underlying liabilities. for countries that do not have a liquid
      market in corporate bonds that are suitable for setting the discount rate, interest rates on government
      bonds are referred to instead to define the rate.

      all other assumptions correspond to the long-term expectations of gea group. the nominal rate of
      wage and salary increases is calculated based on expected inflation and a real rate of increase. the
      rate of pension increases in germany is also determined based on inflation, provided that the pension
      adjustments are determined in accordance with the rise in the cost of living. in addition, the financial
      position of the relevant company is also taken into account. if a firm pension adjustment commitment
      has been made, this is taken into account accordingly. outside of germany, the pension adjustment is
      also generally determined on the basis of inflation. the growth rate assumed for the costs of
      supplementary healthcare benefits in germany equates to forecast inflation plus a growth rate based
      on historical data. based on this data, the growth rate is not expected to change in the future.

      as in the previous year, klaus heubeck’s 2005g mortality tables were used as a basis for measuring
      all german plans as of december 31, 2015. on this basis, the life expectancy of a 65-year-old pensioner
      as of the reporting date is 19.17 years for men and 23.23 years for women (previous year: 21.62 years/
      24.01 years). country-specific measurement bases were used for pension liabilities outside germany.

      the sensitivities presented below apply to the discount rate and inflation, which have been identified
      as actuarial assumptions that have a significant influence on gea group’s benefit obligations. since
      the wage and salary increase rate, the pension increase rate, and the growth rate in the cost of
      supplementary health benefits are derived from inflation, sensitivity to inflation was used to measure
      the sensitivity of these assumptions together. the same calculation methods were used for sensitivities
      as for the recognized provisions. the ranges used to compute the sensitivities of the assumptions are
      based on the changes that are deemed possible until the next reporting date, given historical




188                                                           gea annual report 2015

    notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




experience. the meaningfulness of historical experience for forecasts of future outcomes and
neglecting to update a number of assumptions simultaneously may represent limitations of these
methods.

(eur thousand)                                                                                           2015
increase (+)/decrease (-) of dbo                                                                    germany     other countries
increase of discount factor by 50 basis points                                                      –51,197             –6,260
decrease of inflation by 25 basis points                                                            –15,372              –555



a one-year increase in life expectancy results in an increase of around 4 percent in the present value
of the defined benefit obligations, on average.

future cash flows
the following benefit payments are expected to be made under the german and foreign plans in the
coming years:

                                                                                                                        2021 -
(eur thousand)                                    2016        2017         2018            2019        2020              2025
german plans                                     32,720     32,251        32,097          32,072      31,994          157,348
foreign plans                                    18,133     11,505         6,922           7,511       8,398           40,097



the average weighted duration of pension obligations and supplementary healthcare benefits is:

                                                                             12/31/2015                 12/31/2014
(years)                                                                   germany other countries    germany other countries
duration                                                                      15.3           11.3        15.2             13.5


7.3.3           defined contribution pension plans
various companies – especially in the u.s.a. and scandinavia – operate defined contribution pension plans.
under these plans, the obligation does not lie with gea group, but with the respective pension funds.
contributions from continuing operations totaling eur 17,084 thousand were paid in fiscal year 2015
(previous year: eur 17,008 thousand). contributions from continuing operations of eur 45,174 thousand
were paid to state pension insurance systems (previous year: eur 43,188 thousand). these contributions
are recognized as personnel expenses at the same time as the relevant service is rendered.

two multi-employer pension plans operated by several employers in the netherlands were recognized as
defined contribution pension plans because the respective managers of the plans do not provide
sufficient information to the participating companies on the amount of the obligation and of the plan
assets for them to be recognized as defined benefit pension plans.

in the first plan, neither a surplus nor a deficit would have any effect on the level of future contributions.
contributions amounting to eur 2,484 thousand (previous year: eur 2,494 thousand) were made to this
multi-employer pension plan in fiscal year 2015. lower contributions are expected for fiscal year 2016
compared with the previous year.

the second multi-employer pension plan has around 1.2 million beneficiaries, of whom around 600
belong to gea group. the asset/liability ratio of this plan must amount to at least 105 percent. neither a
surplus nor a deficit in the plan would result in additional payments from or into the plan for the
participating companies. however, if the minimum funding level is not met, future contributions to be
paid by the participating companies may be increased. contributions amounting to eur 3,427 thousand




                                                 gea annual report 2015                                                           189

         notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      (previous year: eur 3,783 thousand) were made to the multi-employer pension plan in fiscal year 2015.
      lower contributions are expected for fiscal year 2016 compared with the previous year.

      7.3.4    share-based payment
      share-based payments in fiscal year 2015 for the group as a whole totaled eur 2,356 thousand
      (previous year: eur 1,370 thousand). of this amount, income of eur 274 thousand was attributable
      to the sold gea hx segment for cash-settled, share-based payment transactions, and an expense of
      eur 21 thousand for equity-settled, share-based payment transactions (see section 6.1). the carrying
      amount of liabilities arising from share-based payment transactions in the complete group amounted
      to eur 5,158 thousand as of december 31, 2015 (previous year: eur 10,493 thousand).

      performance share plan
      effective july 1, 2006, gea group aktiengesellschaft launched a long-term remuneration program
      entitled “gea performance share plan”, a cash-settled share-based payment plan for all first- and
      second-level managers below the executive board. third-level managers were also eligible to
      participate starting with the third tranche of the program as of july 1, 2008. the tenth tranche was
      issued on november 26, with the subscription period ending january 31, 2016. the goal of the gea
      performance share plan is to link managers’ remuneration with the long-term success of the
      company and to align their interests with those of the shareholders.

      under the plan, participants are granted a defined number of performance shares at the beginning of
      the performance period. the number of performance shares allotted is determined by the
      participants’ management level. to participate in the plan, managers must invest 20 percent of the
      amount of the allotted performance shares in shares of gea group aktiengesellschaft. the personal
      investment must then be held for three years (performance period). the tenth tranche has a 31-month
      vesting period from the date of grant.

      the performance of gea group aktiengesellschaft’s shares relative to the companies included in a
      benchmark index over the three-year performance period is measured on the basis of their total
      shareholder return (tsr). the mdax was used as the benchmark for the tranches issued in the years
      up to and including 2013. the benchmark for the tranches issued in 2014 and 2015 is the stoxx®
      europe tmi industrial engineering (tmi ie). this change in the benchmark index has harmonized
      the plan with the share-based payments for executive board members. tsr is a suitable indicator for
      investors to compare the performance and appeal of different companies. it measures the total
      percentage return that an investor earns from a share over a certain period. in addition to share price
      performance, dividends and adjustments such as share splits are included in the calculation of tsr.
      this method of comparison eliminates share price performance that is due to general market
      volatility and enables the effects of different profit retention strategies to be compared. the relative
      performance of gea group aktiengesellschaft’s shares determines the number of performance
      shares finally paid out (between 0 percent and 300 percent).

      the performance shares are paid out once the three-year performance period has expired. at that
      time, the performance of gea group aktiengesellschaft’s shares relative to the benchmark
      determines how many performance shares are paid out: if the performance of the company’s shares
      equals the median in the tsr comparison, 50 percent of the performance shares are issued; if it
      reaches the third quartile, 100 percent of the performance shares are paid out. if gea group aktien­
      gesellschaft’s shares outperform the benchmark index companies, 300 percent of the performance
      shares are issued. other performance figures are interpolated between these values. the total amount




190                                                 gea annual report 2015

    notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




paid out corresponds to the number of performance shares allotted to a participant multiplied by the
average share price over the last quarter of the three-year performance period. once the performance
period has expired, participants may freely dispose of their personal investment in gea group
aktiengesellschaft shares.

the 2012 tranche expired on june 30, 2015. the tsr comparison over the three-year performance
period resulted in a payout ratio of 74.2 percent (previous year: 2011 tranche, 0.0 percent), as gea
group aktiengesellschaft’s shares did not match the median performance of the companies included
in the benchmark index in the tsr comparison. there was a payment of eur 4,424 thousand
(previous year: eur 0 thousand) in fiscal year 2015.

the number of performance shares changed as follows in fiscal year 2015:

                                                                                                              changes in
(number of shares)                    12/31/2014       additions            expired      paid out     consolidated group   12/31/2015
2012 tranche                            137,050                 –                 –      137,050                      –            –
2013 tranche                            153,896                 –           14,567             –                 10,415      149,744
2014 tranche                            140,210                 –            5,201             –               –19,808       115,201
2015 tranche                                  –          12,397                   –            –                      –       12,397
total                                   431,156          12,397             19,768       137,050                 –9,393      277,342



the total expense for the group as a whole for fiscal year 2015 amounts to eur 1,808 thousand
(previous year: eur 413 thousand), taking into account the fair value as of december 31, 2015, of
eur 6.41 (previous year: eur 25.88) for the 2013 tranche, eur 34.13 (previous year: eur 37.97) for
the 2014 tranche, and eur 15.70 for the 2015 tranche, as well as eur 32.28 (previous year: eur 22.30)
for the 2012 tranche (previous year: 2011 tranche) at the payment date. of this amount, income of
eur 274 thousand was attributable to the sold gea hx segment, largely due to the expiry of the 2011
tranche.

the fair value of the performance shares is determined using a monte carlo simulation. the
following valuation assumptions are applied:

                                                                    2015                                       2014
tranche                                                 2013           2014            2015          2012           2013        2014
share price (eur)                                       38.71          37.99           37.40         38.11         37.29       36.60
dividend yield (%)                                       1.99              1.99         1.99         2.050         2.050       2.050
risk-free interest rate (%)                            –0.396         –0.376          –0.308        –0.084        –0.094      –0.102
volatility gea shares (%)                              23.64           23.64          23.64         22.60          22.60       22.60



as the payout ratio of gea group aktiengesellschaft’s performance shares is linked to the mdax or
tmi ie, the volatilities of all mdax or tmi ie shares and their correlations to gea group aktien­gesell­
schaft shares are also calculated. the calculation of volatilities and correlations is based on historical
market data. risk-free interest rates were determined from german government bond yields.




                                                   gea annual report 2015                                                               191

          notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      phantom shares
      a long-term incentive component was added to the bonus arrangements for executive board
      members in fiscal years 2010 and 2011. under this, half of the bonus was payable with the regular
      salary payment and the other half was converted into phantom shares of the company. it was
      calculated as the arithmetic mean of the daily closing prices of gea group shares in xetra trading
      operated by the frankfurt stock exchange on the trading days in the three-month period that ended
      one month before the date of the supervisory board meeting convened in fiscal year 2015 to adopt
      the financial statements.

      the payout value of the phantom shares is calculated following the expiration of a lock-up period of
      three years following the conversion into phantom shares. the amount of the payout is calculated as
      the arithmetic mean of the daily closing prices of gea group aktiengesellschaft shares in xetra
      trading operated by the frankfurt stock exchange on the trading days in the three-month period that
      ends one month before the date of the relevant supervisory board meeting convened to adopt the
      financial statements in the fiscal year in which the lock-up period expires. the dividends payable per
      share during the lock-up period are added to the value calculated in this way. the amount to be paid
      out under these arrangements is limited to 300 percent of the annual basic bonus. in the event of
      termination of the executive board member’s contract of service, the three-year vesting period is
      reduced to one year as from the date of termination.

      because the exercise price is zero and this share-based payment program does not feature a vesting
      period, the fair value of the phantom shares corresponds to the quoted market price of gea group
      aktiengesellschaft shares. the fair value of the liability for the 2011 tranche is calculated by multiplying
      the number of phantom shares by the relevant closing price, plus dividends paid during the lock-up
      period. the 2011 tranche was paid out in full in fiscal year 2015, at a payout price of eur 38.92.

      the number of phantom shares changed as follows in fiscal year 2015:


      (number of shares)                                12/31/2014       additions       expired      paid out     12/31/2015
      2011 tranche                                          61,495              –             –        61,495               –
      total                                                 61,495              –             –        61,495               –



      in fiscal year 2015, expenses of eur 38 thousand (previous year: eur 180 thousand) were recognized
      in respect of phantom shares. the liability as of december 31, 2015, amounted to eur 0 thousand
      (previous year: eur 2,355 thousand). in the previous year, the corresponding amount was reported
      in current employee benefit obligations under bonuses, whereby the relevant price for the phantom
      shares issued in fiscal year 2011 was eur 38.30.

      long-term share price component
      the long-term share price component was introduced as part of the revision of the variable
      remuneration system for executive board members in fiscal year 2012. the payout from the long-
      term share price component is measured over a three-year performance period that includes the
      relevant fiscal year and the two subsequent years.




192                                                  gea annual report 2015

    notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




performance is measured by comparing the performance of the gea share price, adjusted for dividends,
with the performance of the stoxx® europe tmi industrial engineering (tmi ie) index over a three-
year performance period. this comparison is computed on the basis of the respective arithmetic mean
closing prices on the last 20 trading days preceding the start of the three-year performance period.
100 percent of the target is achieved if the performance of the arithmetic mean of the gea share daily
closing prices is equal to 100 percent of the corresponding tmi performance over the three-year
performance period. in the event of outperformance greater than 100 percent, the amount paid out rises
to a maximum of 300 percent of the target amount. if the increase in gea’s share price over the three-
year period is less than 100 percent of the growth in the tmi ie, the amount payable will be reduced
accordingly down to a performance level of 75 percent: for each percentage point higher or lower than
a 100 percent performance level, the degree of target achievement will rise or fall by 4 percent. the total
degree of target achievement and thus the payout level for the long-term share price component is
limited to 300 percent of this target amount (cap).

starting from a target amount of eur 1,825 thousand (previous year: eur 1,793 thousand), the fair
value of claims arising from the long-term share price component amounted to eur 2,391 thousand
(previous year: eur 2,664 thousand) as of the reporting date. the 2012 tranche was paid out in fiscal
year 2015 at eur 784 thousand (previous year: eur 0).

the fair value of the claims arising from the long-term share price component is determined using a
monte carlo simulation. the following valuation assumptions are applied:

                                                                                        2015                           2014
                                                                               2015 tranche    2014 tranche   2014 tranche    2013 tranche
share price (arithmetic mean) (eur)                                                  39.89           37.65          34.66           32.50
stoxx tmi ie (arithmetic mean) (index points)                                       373.88          360.21         346.47          339.31
risk-free interest (percent)                                                        –0.350          –0.390         –0.099           0.100
volatility gea share (percent)                                                       23.53           23.53          22.29           22.29
volatility stoxx tmi ie (percent)                                                    21.06           21.06          15.66           15.66
correlation between gea share and stoxx tmi ie (percent)                             86.50           86.50          66.12           66.12



the calculation of volatilities and correlation is based on historical market data. risk-free interest
rates were determined from german government bond yields.




                                                           gea annual report 2015                                                            193

           notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      7.4            financial liabilities
      financial liabilities as of december 31, 2015, were composed of the following items:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                               12/31/2015       12/31/2014
      borrower‘s note loan                                                                                             89,898           89,842
      bonds                                                                                                                  –        274,045
      liabilities to banks                                                                                             50,308           50,344
      liabilities under finance leases                                                                                 30,342           31,419
      liabilities from derivatives                                                                                      6,461           10,422
      non-current financial liabilities                                                                              177,009          456,072
      borrower‘s note loan                                                                                                697              699
      bonds                                                                                                           282,666            8,157
      liabilities to banks                                                                                              5,561         106,033
      liabilities under finance leases                                                                                  3,467            3,510
      liabilities from derivatives                                                                                      8,142           13,946
      liabilities to equity investments                                                                                   202            1,129
      current financial liabilities                                                                                  300,735          133,474
      total financial liabilities                                                                                    477,744          589,546



      the financing of gea group as of december 31, 2015, consisted mainly of the following items:

                                          carrying amount carrying amount   notional value     fair value
      (eur thousand)                           12/31/2015      12/31/2014     12/31/2015     12/31/2015                                maturity
      gea bond                                   282,666         282,202         274,739        286,043                          april 21, 2016
                                                                                                                partial repayment amounting to
                                                                                                            100.000 t eur on january 14, 2015;
      european investment bank                    50,209         150,345          50,000         50,742      remaining portion on july 14, 2017
      borrower‘s note loan                        90,595          90,541          90,000         94,394                    september 19, 2017


      bond
      on april 14, 2011, gea group aktiengesellschaft issued a bond amounting to eur 400,000 thousand.
      the bond has a five-year term and a fixed coupon of 4.25 percent. in 2014 bonds amounting to
      eur 125,261 thousand were repurchased. the bond is unsecured. it is listed on the regulated market
      of the luxembourg stock exchange.

      borrower’s note loans
      in 2012, gea group aktiengesellschaft placed a borrower’s note loan in the amount of eur 90,000
      thousand which is due to mature in 2017 and has a fixed interest rate of 2.725 percent.




194                                                           gea annual report 2015

    notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




liabilities to banks
the maturities of liabilities to banks are as follows:


(eur thousand)                                                                                 12/31/2015    12/31/2014
< 1 year                                                                                           5,561       106,033
1 - 2 years                                                                                       50,170           137
2 - 3 years                                                                                          101        50,138
3 - 4 years                                                                                           32              69
4 - 5 years                                                                                            5               –
total                                                                                             55,869       156,377



liabilities to banks mainly comprise the eur 50,000 thousand loan from the european investment
bank (eib), which is scheduled for repayment in 2017. part of the loan amount (eur 100,000 thousand)
was repaid in advance in fiscal year 2015. the weighted average interest rate for this partial amount
was fixed at 3.29 percent for the full term using two interest rate swaps.

none of the credit lines drawn down are secured. gea group has undertaken in the loan agreements
to comply with a certain covenant. compliance with the covenant must be reviewed at the end of
each quarter. the covenant was met as of december 31, 2015.
transaction costs for the unused syndicated credit line (club deal) as of the end of the year are
allocated on a straight-line basis over the term.

other liabilities to banks in the eurozone bore interest rates of between 0.5 percent and 2.0 percent,
depending on their maturity and financing purpose (previous year: between 0.5 percent and
2.0 percent). the group additionally had foreign currency liabilities in indian rupees (previous year:
indian rupees and brazilian real) that also bear standard market interest rates in this country of
around 10.0 percent (previous year: 12.0 percent in india and 13.5 percent in brazil).

liabilities to banks totaling eur 934 thousand (previous year: eur 0 thousand) were secured.

cash credit and guarantee credit lines
including the syndicated credit line, the group as a whole had cash credit lines of eur 1,199,350 thousand
as of december 31, 2015 (previous year: eur 1,305,421 thousand). of this amount, cash credit lines of
eur 770,220 thousand (previous year: eur 776,315 thousand) are unutilized (see section 3). in addition,
guarantee credit lines for the performance of contracts, advance payments, and warranty obligations of
eur 1,463,367 thousand (previous year: eur 1,732,338 thousand) were available to the group as a whole,
of which eur 981,925 thousand (previous year: eur 1,270,261 thousand) has not been utilized.




                                               gea annual report 2015                                                      195

          notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      liabilities under finance leases
      the following table shows a breakdown of future payments under finance leases:

                                                                                                              present value of minimum
                                                   minimum lease payments             interest                     lease payments
      (eur thousand)                               12/31/2015     12/31/2014   12/31/2015        12/31/2014    12/31/2015     12/31/2014
      not later than one year                           3,930          3,997         463               487          3,467          3,510
      between one and five years                       15,740         15,923       3,979             4,085         11,761         11,838
      later than five years                            48,057         51,963      29,476            32,382        18,581          19,581
      total future payments under finance leases       67,727        71,883       33,918            36,954        33,809          34,929



      liabilities under finance leases relate mainly to land and buildings. the present value of minimum
      lease payments as of december 31, 2015, relating to leases for land and buildings amounted to
      eur 33,689 thousand (previous year: eur 34,599 thousand).

      as the interest rates used in leases are constant, the fair value of lease liabilities may be exposed to
      interest rate risk. all leases comprise contractually agreed payments.

      liabilities under finance leases are effectively secured because the rights to the leased asset revert to
      the lessor if the terms and conditions of the lease are breached.

      derivative financial instruments
      derivative financial instruments are explained in section 7.8.

      7.5           trade payables
      trade payables were as follows as of december 31, 2015:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                          12/31/2015      12/31/2014
      trade payables                                                                                            610,315          639,719
       thereof to unconsolidated companies                                                                        6,790            8,066



      trade payables of eur 609,487 thousand (previous year: eur 638,994 thousand) are due within one year.
      the balance of eur 828 thousand (previous year: eur 725 thousand) is due after more than one year.

      trade payables in the amount of eur 33,633 thousand (previous year: eur 46,032 thousand) are
      secured.




196                                                   gea annual report 2015

     notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




7.6            income tax liabilities
income tax liabilities relate to current taxes and amounted to eur 40,743 (previous year: eur 35,649
thousand).

7.7            other liabilities
other liabilities as of december 31, 2015, are composed of the following items:


(eur thousand)                                                                                  12/31/2015    12/31/2014
other non-current liabilities                                                                      63,708        58,566
payments on account received in respect of orders and construction contracts                      184,470       188,802
gross amount due to customers for contract work                                                   325,469       254,928
other liabilities to unconsolidated subsidiaries                                                   25,959        24,166
liabilities from other taxes                                                                       52,822        47,307
other liabilities                                                                                  89,037       102,916
 thereof social security                                                                           15,164        13,284
 thereof other liabilities to employees                                                            13,702         6,615
other current liabilities                                                                         677,757       618,119
total other liabilities                                                                           741,465       676,685



payments on account received in respect of orders amounting to eur 39,217 thousand (previous year:
eur 22,409 thousand) and other liabilities amounting to eur 9,300 thousand (previous year: eur 7,711
thousand) are secured.

the gross amount due to customers for contract work is the aggregate amount of orders whose
progress billings exceed the capitalized cost plus the contract gains and losses recognized.




                                                             gea annual report 2015                                        197

           notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      7.8             financial instruments
      the following tables provide an overview of the composition of financial instruments as of
      december 31, 2015, by class within the meaning of ifrs 7 as well as by measurement category. the
      tables also include financial assets and liabilities, as well as derivatives that are included in
      recognized hedging relationships but do not belong to any of the ias 39 measurement categories.

                                                                                  measurement in accordance with ias 39
                                                                                                                    fair value
                                                                                                                recognized in
                                                                      carrying                    fair value             other     measurement
                                                                      amount     amortized   through profit    comprehensive       in accordance      fair value
      (eur thousand)                                               12/31/2015         cost           or loss          income     with other ifrss   12/31/2015

      assets
      trade receivables                                             1,118,081     781,209                 –                 –           336,872      1,118,081
       thereof poc receivables                                       336,872             –                –                 –           336,872        336,872
      income tax receivables                                           26,082            –                –                 –            26,082         26,082
      cash and cash equivalents                                     1,174,150    1,174,150                –                 –                  –     1,174,150
      other financial assets                                         408,743      285,362            7,576            46,311             69,494        408,743
       thereof derivatives included in hedging relationships                –            –                –                 –                  –              –

      by ias 39 measurement category
      loans and receivables                                         2,218,975    2,218,975                –                 –                  –     2,218,975
       thereof cash and cash equivalents                            1,174,150    1,174,150                –                 –                  –     1,174,150
       thereof trade receivables                                     781,209      781,209                 –                 –                  –       781,209
       thereof other financial assets                                263,616      263,616                 –                 –                  –       263,616
      available-for-sale investments                                   68,057      21,746                 –           46,311                   –        68,057
      financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
      (derivatives not included in a recognized hedging
      relationship)                                                     7,576            –           7,576                  –                  –         7,576

      liabilities
      trade payables                                                 610,315      610,315                 –                 –                  –       610,315
      financial liabilities                                          477,744      429,332           12,307             2,296             33,809        485,453
       thereof liabilities under finance leases                        33,809            –                –                 –            33,809         33,809
       thereof derivatives included in hedging relationships            2,296            –                –            2,296                   –         2,296
      income tax liabilities                                           40,743            –                –                 –            40,743         40,743
      other liabilities                                              741,465      139,221            6,097                  –           596,147        740,200

      by ias 39 measurement category
      financial liabilities at amortized cost                       1,178,868    1,178,868                –                 –                  –     1,185,312
       thereof trade payables                                        610,315      610,315                 –                 –                  –       610,315
       thereof bonds and other securitized liabilities               373,261      373,261                 –                 –                  –       380,437
       thereof liabilities to banks                                    55,869      55,869                 –                 –                  –        56,402
       thereof loan liabilities to unconsolidated subsidiaries            202         202                 –                 –                  –           202
       thereof other liabilities to affiliated companies               25,959      25,959                 –                 –                  –        25,959
       thereof other liabilities                                     113,262      113,262                 –                 –                  –       111,997
      financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
      (derivatives not included in a hedging relationship
      and contingent consideration)                                    18,404            –          18,404                  –                  –        18,404




198                                                                    gea annual report 2015

     notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




                                                                            measurement in accordance with ias 39
                                                                                                              fair value
                                                                                                            recognized
                                                                carrying                    fair value         in other      measurement
                                                                amount     amortized   through profit    comprehensive       in accordance      fair value
(eur thousand)                                               12/31/2014         cost           or loss          income     with other ifrss   12/31/2014

assets
trade receivables                                              945,755      691,440                 –                 –           254,315        945,755
 thereof poc receivables                                       254,315             –                –                 –           254,315        254,315
income tax receivables                                           17,531            –                –                 –            17,531         17,531
cash and cash equivalents                                     1,195,858    1,195,858                –                 –                  –     1,195,858
other financial assets                                         454,058      282,643           16,558            50,006            104,851        454,058
 thereof derivatives included in hedging relationships            4,453            –                –            4,453                   –         4,453

by ias 39 measurement category
loans and receivables                                         2,145,183    2,145,183                –                 –                  –     2,145,183
 thereof cash and cash equivalents                            1,195,858    1,195,858                –                 –                  –     1,195,858
 thereof trade receivables                                     691,440      691,440                 –                 –                  –       691,440
 thereof other financial assets                                257,885      257,885                 –                 –                  –       257,885
available-for-sale investments                                   70,311      24,758                 –           45,553                   –        70,311
financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
(derivatives not included in a recognized hedging
relationship)                                                    16,558            –          16,558                  –                  –        16,558

liabilities
trade payables                                                 639,719      639,719                 –                 –                  –       639,719
financial liabilities                                          589,546      530,249           11,445            12,923             34,929        608,703
 thereof liabilities under finance leases                        34,929            –                –                 –            34,929         34,929
 thereof derivatives included in hedging relationships           12,923            –                –           12,923                   –        12,923
income tax liabilities                                           35,649            –                –                 –            35,649         35,649
other liabilities                                              676,685      160,086                 –                 –           516,599        676,685

by ias 39 measurement category
financial liabilities at amortized cost                       1,330,054    1,330,054                –                 –                  –     1,349,424
 thereof trade payables                                        639,719      639,719                 –                 –                  –       639,719
 thereof bonds and other securitized liabilities               372,743      372,743                 –                 –                  –       391,032
 thereof liabilities to banks                                  156,377      156,377                 –                 –                  –       157,245
 thereof loan liabilities to unconsolidated subsidiaries          1,129       1,129                 –                 –                  –         1,129
 thereof other liabilities to affiliated companies               24,166      24,166                 –                 –                  –        24,379
 thereof other liabilities                                     135,920      135,920                 –                 –                  –       136,133
financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
(derivatives not included in a hedging relationship)             11,445            –          11,445                  –                  –        11,445




                                                                 gea annual report 2015                                                                      199

           notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      the fair values of the financial instruments recognized under assets held for sale and liabilities held
      for sale are not presented separately, since their carrying amounts represent reasonable
      approximations of their fair value.

      financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value, or for which a fair value is disclosed in
      the notes to the consolidated financial statements, are required to be categorized according to the fair
      value hierarchy described in the following. categorization within the levels of the fair value
      hierarchy is based on the measurement of the underlying inputs:

      level 1 inputs: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical financial assets and
      liabilities.

      level 2 inputs: quoted market prices that are observable as direct (prices) or indirect (derived from
      prices) inputs used to measure fair value and that are not quoted prices as defined by level 1.

      level 3 inputs: inputs that are not based on observable market data.

      the following table shows the categorization of financial assets and financial liabilities into the three-
      level fair value hierarchy:

      recurring fair value measurements                                       12/31/2015                                       12/31/2014
                                                                 carrying              fair value                 carrying              fair value
      (eur thousand)                                             amount      level 1       level 2      level 3   amount      level 1       level 2      level 3

      financial assets measured at fair value
      derivatives included in hedging relationships                    –          –                 –        –      4,453          –         4,453            –
      derivatives not included in hedging relationships            7,576          –         7,576            –     16,558          –       16,558             –
      available-for-sale financial assets valued at fair value     9,311          –                 –    9,311      8,518          –                 –    8,518
      other financial assets                                      37,000     37,000                 –        –     37,036     37,036                 –        –

      financial liabilities measured at fair value
      derivatives included in hedging relationships                2,296          –         2,296            –     12,923          –       12,923             –
      derivatives not included in hedging relationships           12,307          –       12,307             –     11,445          –       11,445             –
      contingent consideration                                     6,097          –                 –    6,097          –          –                 –        –

      financial liabilities not measured at fair value
      bonds                                                      282,666    286,043                 –        –    282,202    295,810                 –        –
      promissory note bonds                                       90,595          –       94,394             –     90,541          –       95,222             –
      liabilities to banks                                        55,869          –       56,402             –    156,377          –      157,245             –
      other financial liabilities                                 76,208          –                 –   74,943     76,987          –                 –   77,200



      there were no transfers into or out of the levels of the fair value hierarchy in fiscal year 2015.

      the fair value of the bond and the other financial assets is calculated on the basis of quoted bid prices
      on an active market and is therefore categorized within level 1. the fair value includes the interest
      deferred as of the reporting date.

      the fair value of derivatives is calculated using quoted exchange rates and yield curves observable in
      the market. accordingly, these are categorized within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.




200                                                                  gea annual report 2015

    notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




the fair value of borrower’s note loans and liabilities to banks is measured on the basis of the yield
curve, taking into account credit spreads. they are therefore categorized within level 2 of the fair
value hierarchy. the interest deferred as of the reporting date is included in the fair values.

the fair values of trade receivables, cash and cash equivalents, term deposits, and other financial
receivables essentially correspond to the carrying amounts; this is due to the predominantly short
remaining maturities.

certain other financial liabilities resulting from the sale of the gea hx segment are categorized within
level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, since their fair value is measured on the basis of the present value of
future cash outflows expected on the basis of contractual obligations associated with the sale.

financial liabilities resulting from contingent purchase price considerations are assigned to level 3
of the fair value hierarchy. the fair value of these liabilities is determined by means of present value
calculations, taking into account various inputs that are not observable in the market, and that are
based in particular on corporate planning, as specified in the respective purchase price clauses.

a receivable relating to the former raw material activities of metallgesellschaft ag that had
previously been written off was allocated to level 3 financial instruments; its fair value is determined
by means of a present value calculation on the basis of the debtor’s payment plan.

the following table shows the changes in fair value in fiscal year 2015:


(eur thousand)
fair value 12/31/2014                                                                                            8,518
interest income                                                                                                   392
currency translation                                                                                              –688
revaluation                                                                                                      1,089
fair value 12/31/2015                                                                                            9,311



as the debtor operates a copper mine, its payment plan is influenced by the price of copper.

unrealized losses recognized directly in equity for this financial instrument amounted to
eur –338 thousand as of the reporting date (previous year: gains of eur –1,427 thousand).

gea group aktiengesellschaft has entered into netting agreements with banks under the german
master agreement for financial derivatives transactions. as a general rule, the amounts owed under
such agreements by each counterparty from all outstanding transactions in the same currency on a
single day are aggregated to a single net amount payable by one party to the other. in the event of a
credit event, such as late payment, all outstanding transactions under the agreement will be
terminated, the value on termination calculated, and one single net amount paid to settle all
transactions.




                                               gea annual report 2015                                                    201

           notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      the following table shows the financial assets and liabilities for which the group as a whole has
      entered into netting agreements:

                                                  gross amounts         net amounts of financial       respective amounts
                                                      of financial     assets/liabilities, presented          not netted in
      (eur thousand)                              assets/liabilities         in the balance sheet        the balance sheet    net amounts
      12/31/2015
      receivables from derivatives                          6,951                            6,951                  5,969            982
      liabilities from derivatives                         13,534                          13,534                   5,969          7,565
      12/31/2014
      receivables from derivatives                         19,183                          19,183                   8,278         10,905
      liabilities from derivatives                         22,111                          22,111                   8,278         13,833


      nonderivative financial assets
      the carrying amount of the trade receivables and other financial assets that are subject to the ias 39
      measurement requirements corresponds to their fair value. assets allocated to the “available-for-sale
      financial assets” category are measured at amortized cost. these are shares in unconsolidated
      subsidiaries and other equity investments whose fair value cannot be determined reliably.

      nonderivative financial liabilities
      the carrying amount of the trade payables and other current liabilities that are subject to the
      measurement rules of ias 39 corresponds to their fair value. the fair value of fixed-rate liabilities is
      the present value of their expected future cash flows. they are discounted at the rates prevailing at
      the reporting date. the carrying amount of variable-rate liabilities corresponds to their fair value.

      derivative financial instruments
      the fair value of currency forwards at the reporting date is calculated on the basis of the spot
      exchange rate, taking into account forward premiums and discounts corresponding to the relevant
      remaining maturities. forward premiums and discounts are derived from yield curves observable at
      the reporting date. the fair value of currency options is calculated on the basis of recognized
      valuation models. fair value is affected by the remaining term of the option, the current exchange
      rate, the volatility of the exchange rate, and the underlying yield curves.

      the fair value of interest rate swaps and options is determined on the basis of discounted expected
      future cash flows. market interest rates applicable to the remaining maturities of these financial
      instruments are used. cross-currency swaps also include the exchange rates of the relevant foreign
      currencies in which the cash flows are generated.

      gea group uses derivative financial instruments, including currency forwards, interest rate swaps,
      and cross-currency swaps. derivative financial instruments serve to hedge foreign currency risk and
      interest rate risk for existing or planned underlying transactions.




202                                                     gea annual report 2015

    notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




the following table presents the notional values and fair values of the derivative financial
instruments in use as of the reporting date. the notional value in foreign currency is translated at the
closing rate.

                                                                                              12/31/2015                      12/31/2014
(eur thousand)                                                                        notional value       fair value notional value       fair value

assets
currency derivatives not included in a hedging relationship                                701,136            7,576        748,907           16,558
currency derivatives included in a cash flow hedge                                                –               –        154,190            4,453
total                                                                                      701,136            7,576        903,097          21,011

equity and liabilities
currency derivatives not included in a hedging relationship                                293,436            8,357        219,092            4,945
currency derivatives included in a cash flow hedge                                                –               –        236,672            9,695
interest rate and cross-currency derivatives not included in a hedging relationship         33,535            3,950         40,113            6,500
interest rate and cross-currency derivatives included in a cash flow hedge                  50,000            2,296         50,000            3,228
total                                                                                      376,971          14,603         545,877          24,368


derivative financial instruments included in recognized hedging relationships
in the reporting year, derivative financial instruments included in recognized hedging relationships
served exclusively to hedge interest rate risks from long-term financing (cash flow hedges). in the
previous year, foreign currency risks from future sale and procurement transactions were also
included in cash flow hedges. fair value hedges are recognized to hedge changes in the fair value of
assets, liabilities, or firm commitments. as in the previous year, the group had not entered into any
fair value hedges as of december 31, 2015.

derivatives are measured at fair value, which is split into an effective and an ineffective portion. the
effective portion and any change in this amount are recognized in other comprehensive income until
the hedged item is recognized in the balance sheet. the ineffective portion is recognized in the
income statement. when the hedged item is recognized in the balance sheet, gains and losses
recognized in equity are realized and the hedge is unwound. in the case of a sale transaction, the
effective portion is recognized as revenue, whereas in the case of a procurement transaction the cost
is adjusted accordingly. in the case of interest rate derivatives, the gains and losses recognized in
equity are reversed to net interest income.

as of december 31, 2015, the complete group recognized gains of eur 0 thousand (previous
year: eur 5,576 thousand) and losses of eur 2,023 thousand (previous year: eur 13,030 thousand)
from currency and interest rate derivatives directly in equity.

in the course of fiscal year 2015, eur –4,614 thousand (previous year: eur –47 thousand) was
recognized in the income statement due to the hedged items being recognized in the balance sheet,
and eur 8,753 thousand (previous year: eur 3,497 thousand) was offset against the cost of assets.
the amounts recognized in the income statement resulted in an increase in revenue of eur 1,742
thousand (previous year: eur 1,545 thousand). in addition, gains of eur 7,744 thousand (previous
year: gains of eur 5,419 thousand) and losses of eur –14,099 thousand (previous year: losses of
eur –7,012 thousand) were reported in net exchange rate gains/losses. eur 0 thousand (previous
year: eur 0 thousand) from interest rate derivatives was recognized in net interest income.

as in the previous year, there was no significant hedge ineffectiveness.




                                                                gea annual report 2015                                                                  203

           notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated balance sheet disclosures: equity and liabilities




      55 percent (previous year: 96 percent) of the hedged cash flows from the underlying transactions
      designated at the reporting date are expected to fall due in the following year. the remaining
      45 percent (previous year: 4 percent) are due by 2017 (previous year: 2017). if financial assets are
      hedged, the derivatives are recognized in the income statement at the same time as the hedged items
      are recognized in the income statement and balance sheet. if financial liabilities from procurement
      transactions are hedged, the derivatives are recognized in the income statement when the purchased
      goods or services are recognized in the income statement.

      derivative financial instruments not included in recognized hedging relationships
      if the criteria for recognizing a hedging relationship are not met, any change in fair value is
      recognized in the income statement

      income and expenses
      the measurement effects from financial instruments have largely been recognized in profit or loss.
      the following table shows net income from financial instruments, broken down by the ias 39
      measurement categories:

                                                                  12/31/2015                                            12/31/2014
                                                                                             thereof                                               thereof
                                                                                        impairment                                            impairment
                                                                                    losses/ reversals                                     losses/ reversals
                                                                 thereof interest    of impairment                     thereof interest    of impairment
      (eur thousand)                               net income   income/expense                 losses   net income   income/ expense                 losses
      loans and receivables                          –39,406              8,484              –7,139       –35,073               5,270             –5,730
      available-for-sale investments                  –1,315                  75            –1,011           –172                 153                    –
      financial assets/liabilities at fair value
      through profit or loss                          41,442                301                    –       31,038              –1,260                    –
      financial liabilities at amortized cost        –34,003           –27,169                     –      –41,086            –44,175                     –
      total                                          –33,282           –18,309              –8,150        –45,293            –40,012              –5,730




204                                                         gea annual report 2015

                 notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated income statement disclosures




8.           consolidated income statement disclosures
8.1          revenue
revenue is composed of the following items:

                                                                                               12/31/2015 -   12/31/2014 -
(eur thousand)                                                                                  12/31/2015     12/31/2014
from construction contracts                                                                      2,160,765      2,207,366
from sale of goods and services                                                                  1,087,586      1,082,977
from service agreements                                                                          1,350,918      1,225,346
total                                                                                            4,599,269      4,515,689



8.2          other income
other income is composed of the following items:

                                                                                               01/01/2015 -   01/01/2014 -
(eur thousand)                                                                                  12/31/2015     12/31/2014
exchange rate gains                                                                                197,610        100,377
gains on the measurement of foreign currency derivatives                                           133,511         69,141
rental and lease income                                                                              3,392          3,963
income from payments received on reversals previously written off                                    2,424          2,956
income from disposal of non-current assets                                                           1,487          1,798
income from compensation payments and cost reimbursements                                            2,110          1,501
miscellaneous other income                                                                          51,607         49,457
total                                                                                             392,141        229,193



8.3          other expenses
other expenses are composed of the following items:

                                                                                               01/01/2015 -   01/01/2014 -
(eur thousand)                                                                                  12/31/2015     12/31/2014
exchange rate losses                                                                               247,618        133,238
losses on the measurement of foreign currency derivatives                                           92,370         36,843
bad debt allowances on trade receivables                                                             9,563          8,686
restructuring expenses                                                                               1,263              –
cost of money transfers and payment transactions                                                     1,404          1,172
losses on the disposal of non-current assets                                                           696          1,092
miscellaneous other expenses                                                                        30,706         21,300
total                                                                                             383,620        202,331



8.4          restructuring expenses relating to the
             “fit for 2020” initiative
the “fit for 2020” initiative is a constituent part of gea’s strategic reorientation effort. it aims to bring
about substantial savings and promote further growth by optimizing the company’s organizational
structure. as a result, the development and manufacturing of products and the provision of process
solutions have been bundled in two new business areas – equipment and solutions. this new
structure with business areas of roughly equal size and strength promises greater operational
synergies across technologies and applications, and helps achieve functional excellence by
standardizing processes. for gea’s customers this means one country organization per country as a




                                                             gea annual report 2015                                          205

                notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated income statement disclosures




      central point of contact offering the entire product portfolio and all services on a local basis. the
      planned measures include a net workforce reduction of approximately 1,450 full-time equivalents.

      in fiscal year 2015, restructuring provisions amounting to eur 125.6 million were recorded for the
      “fit for 2020” initiative. eur 109.9 million of these expenses were attributable to expenses for
      contractual and anticipated redundancy payments, while eur 7.4 million was for impairments on
      property, plant and equipment and on intangible assets. the remaining amount of eur 8.4 million is
      attributable in particular to other costs in connection with site closures.

      restructuring provisions are recognized insofar as the relevant criteria applicable in the individual
      countries or locations are met. this was largely the case toward the end of 2015 for the restructuring
      measures planned in the context of the “fit for 2020” initiative. the restructuring provisions recognized
      as of december 31, 2015 amounted to eur 90.2 million, of which eur 85.3 million was attributable to
      obligations arising from contractual and anticipated severance payments (see section 7.3).



      8.5      presentation of selected income and expenses
               by cost type

      cost of materials
      the cost of materials included in cost of sales increased by eur 11,112 thousand in the reporting
      period to eur 2,193,582 thousand (previous year: eur 2,204,694 thousand). cost of materials was
      47.7 percent of gross revenue and was therefore lower than the previous year’s figure of 48.5 percent.

      personnel expenses
      personnel expenses increased by eur 149,703 thousand in 2015 to eur 1,391,966 thousand (previous
      year: eur 1,242,263 thousand). the cost of unwinding the discount on expected pension obligations
      is not recognized under personnel expenses, but under financial and interest expenses. personnel
      expenses include wages and salaries in the amount of eur 1,175,641 thousand (previous year:
      eur 1,022,399 thousand) as well as social security contributions and expenses for post-employment
      benefits of eur 216,325 thousand (previous year: eur 219,709 thousand). the ratio of personnel
      expenses to gross revenue thus increased to 30.3 percent (previous year: 27.3 percent) the rise is
      largely due to additional personnel expenses for severance payments in the context of the
      restructuring measures.

      depreciation, amortization, and impairment losses
      depreciation, amortization, and impairment losses totaling eur 119,407 thousand (previous year:
      eur 100,780 thousand) were charged on property, plant, and equipment, investment property, and
      intangible assets in the reporting period. depreciation, amortization, and impairment losses are
      largely included in cost of sales.

      impairment losses on non-derivative financial assets excluding trade receivables amounted to eur 1,011
      thousand in the reporting period (previous year: eur 0 thousand). of this amount, eur 1,011 thousand
      (previous year: eur 0 thousand) was attributable to non-current financial assets. impairment losses on
      equity investments and marketable securities are contained in the financial expenses item. inventories
      were written down by eur 11,694 thousand (previous year: eur 12,613 thousand). these impairment
      losses and the remaining impairment losses were recognized in cost of sales.




206                                              gea annual report 2015

                 notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated income statement disclosures




8.6           financial and interest income

financial income
financial income is composed of income from profit transfers and investment income from other
equity investments:

                                                                                               01/01/2015 -   01/01/2014 -
(eur thousand)                                                                                  12/31/2015     12/31/2014
income from other equity investments                                                                 2,499          5,700
 thereof from unconsolidated subsidiaries                                                            2,413          5,683
total                                                                                                2,499          5,700


interest income
interest and similar income is composed of the following items:

                                                                                               01/01/2015 -   01/01/2014 -
(eur thousand)                                                                                  12/31/2015     12/31/2014
interest income on receivables, cash investments, and marketable securities                         10,038          5,793
 thereof from unconsolidated subsidiaries                                                              306            332
other interest income                                                                                1,437          1,264
total                                                                                               11,475          7,057



the following table shows the interest income on financial instruments broken down by the ias 39
measurement categories, along with the interest income on assets measured in accordance with other
pronouncements::

                                                                                               01/01/2015 -   01/01/2014 -
(eur thousand)                                                                                  12/31/2015     12/31/2014
loans and receivables                                                                                8,484          5,270
available-for-sale investments                                                                          75            153
financial assets at fair value through profit or loss                                                2,916          1,634
total                                                                                               11,475          7,057




                                                              gea annual report 2015                                         207

                       notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated income statement disclosures




      8.7            financial and interest expenses

      financial expenses
      financial expenses for fiscal year 2015 amounted to eur 1,861 thousand (previous year: eur 279
      thousand) and comprised impairment losses on equity investments in unconsolidated companies of
      eur 1,011 thousand (previous year: eur 0 thousand) and expenses from loss absorption of eur 850
      thousand (previous year: eur 279 thousand).

      interest expense
      interest and similar expenses comprised the following items:n:

                                                                                                              01/01/2015 -   01/01/2014 -
      (eur thousand)                                                                                           12/31/2015     12/31/2014
      interest expenses on liabilities to banks                                                                    18,664         36,885
      interest cost from discount unwinding on pension and medical care obligations                                14,952         19,788
      interest cost from discount unwinding on discounted provisions and other employee benefit obligations         3,143          3,136
      other interest expenses                                                                                      14,154         13,278
      thereof to unconsolidated subsidiaries                                                                          232             86
      total interest expenses                                                                                      50,913         73,087



      the following table shows the interest expenses on financial instruments broken down by the ias 39
      measurement categories, along with the interest expenses on liabilities measured in accordance with
      other pronouncements:

                                                                                                              01/01/2015 -   01/01/2014 -
      (eur thousand)                                                                                           12/31/2015     12/31/2014
      financial liabilities at amortized cost                                                                      27,169         44,175
      financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss                                                    2,615          2,894
      financial liabilities not measured in accordance with ias 39                                                 21,129         26,018
      total                                                                                                        50,913         73,087



      if finance can be allocated to a specific investment, the actual borrowing costs are capitalized as part of
      the cost of the investment. where no direct relationship can be established, the average interest rate for
      group borrowings in the current period is used as the capitalization rate due to gea group’s central
      financing function. this amounted to 4.4 percent in fiscal year 2015 (previous year: 3.4 percent). interest
      income generated on advance payments and progress payments received reduces the cost of the
      asset. no material borrowing costs were capitalized in fiscal year 2015 or in the previous year.

      in fiscal year 2015, expenses totaling eur 1,404 thousand (previous year: eur 1,172 thousand) were
      incurred for fees that were not included in the calculation of the effective interest rate.




208                                                                  gea annual report 2015

                 notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated income statement disclosures




8.8             taxes on income
income taxes for continuing operations are composed of the following items:

                                                                                                 01/01/2015 -    01/01/2014 -
(eur thousand)                                                                                    12/31/2015      12/31/2014
current taxes                                                                                          61,428            80,751
 germany                                                                                                1,694            10,675
 other countries                                                                                       59,734            70,076
deferred taxes                                                                                        –55,670             7,065
 thereof related to temporary differences                                                              –6,242            13,837
total                                                                                                   5,758            87,816



the expected tax expense is calculated using the tax rate of 30.00 percent (previous year: 29.97 percent)
applicable to german group companies. this includes an average trade tax rate of 14.17 percent (previous
year: 14.14 percent) in addition to the uniform corporate income tax rate of 15.00 percent (previous
year: 15.00 percent) and the solidarity surcharge of 0.825 percent (previous year: 0.825 percent). the
following table shows a reconciliation of the expected tax rate to the effective tax rate of 2.13 percent
(previous year: 23.49 percent)

                                                              01/01/2015 -12/31/2015            01/01/2014 -12/31/2014
                                                                     (eur                             (eur
                                                                thousand)                (%)     thousand)                  (%)
profit before tax                                                270,007                   –      373,830                     –
expected tax expense                                              81,002                30.00      112,034                29.97
non-tax deductible expense                                         4,633                 1.72       11,347                 3.03
tax-exempt income                                                 –4,476                –1.66       –4,089                –1.09
change in valuation allowances                                   –71,648               –26.54      –32,864                –8.79
change in tax rates                                               –1,052                –0.39       –1,073                –0.29
foreign tax rate differences                                      –3,648                –1.35       –2,665                –0.71
other                                                                947                 0.35        5,126                 1.37
income tax and effective tax rate                                  5,758                 2.13       87,816                23.49



the change in valuation allowances in the amount of eur –71,648 thousand (previous year: eur –32,864
thousand) was primarily due to a revised assessment of the recoverability of the deferred tax assets on
tax loss carryforwards in the u.s.a. and in germany. with regard to germany, additional allowances
could be reversed due to a special effect in other discontinued operations.
the effects of changes in tax rates in the amount of eur –1,052 thousand (previous year: eur –1,073
thousand) in the reporting period were mainly due to the change in the tax rate in denmark.

the foreign tax rate differences are due to different tax rates outside germany in comparison to the
german tax rate of 30.00 percent. the tax rates for foreign companies vary between 0.00 percent
(uae) and 40.91 percent (u.s.a.).

the other reconciliation effects include amongst others nondeductible withholding taxes, prior-period
taxes, and other income taxes outside germany.




                                                  gea annual report 2015                                                          209

                       notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated income statement disclosures




      deferred tax assets and liabilities as of the reporting date can be broken down by maturity as follows:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                           12/31/2015        12/31/2014
      current deferred tax assets                                                                                 67,022              62,477
      non-current deferred tax assets                                                                            424,097             406,824
      total deferred tax assets                                                                                  491,119             469,301
      current deferred tax liabilities                                                                            40,891              49,166
      non-current deferred tax liabilities                                                                        70,279              69,432
      total deferred tax liabilities                                                                             111,170             118,598
      net deferred tax assets                                                                                    379,949             350,703


      deferred tax assets and liabilities as of december 31, 2015, and 2014, are composed of the following
      items:

                                                                                 deferred tax assets             deferred tax liabilities
      (eur thousand)                                                                2015               2014           2015                  2014
      property, plant, and equipment                                                6,849              7,443        23,757            22,874
      investment property                                                             226               322                 –               355
      intangible assets                                                               505               449         80,550            64,980
      goodwill                                                                     14,767          16,962           35,177            34,316
      other non-current financial assets                                              835               609          5,110              5,169
      non-current assets                                                          23,182           25,785         144,594            127,694
      inventories                                                                  32,274          26,449            1,522              3,018
      trade receivables                                                             6,505              4,975        46,150            48,138
      other current financial assets                                                5,601              7,107        11,010            11,423
      cash and cash equivalents                                                         –                42              59                  93
      current assets                                                              44,380           38,573           58,741            62,672
      total assets                                                                67,562           64,358         203,335            190,366
      provisions                                                                   17,456          14,787               152                 196
      employee benefits                                                          119,498          123,074               378                  34
      non-current financial liabilities                                             5,963              6,832            496             1,577
      other non-current financial liabilities                                         458               864          2,314              1,387
      non-current liabilities                                                    143,375         145,557             3,340              3,194
      provisions                                                                   22,042          25,249            2,081              2,287
      employee benefits                                                            14,914          10,859               728                  52
      current financial liabilities                                                 8,349              6,499         1,492                  245
      trade payables                                                                4,103              5,246         5,156              3,831
      other current financial liabilities                                          12,016              8,081         7,405              6,526
      current liabilities                                                         61,424           55,934           16,862            12,941
      total liabilities                                                          204,799         201,491            20,202            16,135
      valuation allowances on temporary differences                                –3,052          –4,420                   –                  –
      deferred taxes on temporary differences                                    269,309         261,429          223,537            206,501
      tax loss carryforwards                                                     998,200         987,158                    –                  –
      valuation allowances on tax loss carryforwards                             –664,023       –691,383                    –                  –
      offsetting of deferred taxes                                               –112,367         –87,903        –112,367            –87,903
      recognized deferred taxes                                                  491,119         469,301          111,170            118,598



      in addition to changes of eur 55,670 thousand recognized in profit or loss (previous year:
      eur –7,065 thousand), changes in deferred taxes resulted mainly from changes of eur 14,080
      thousand (previous year: eur 58,122 thousand) recognized in other comprehensive income,
      including currency translation effects of foreign operations. in addition, deferred taxes in the amount
      of eur –16,104 thousand from initial consolidations were recognized directly in equity. in addition,
      eur –24,400 thousand was recognized in the tax result from discontinued operations, largely in
      connection with income from the settlement of disputes in connection with the former business
      activities of mg technologies ag. in the previous year, eur 14,543 thousand relating to the sale of the
      gea hx segment was recognized in the tax result from discontinued operations.




210                                                     gea annual report 2015

                 notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated income statement disclosures




deferred tax liabilities of eur 1,352 thousand (previous year: eur 1,747 thousand) were recognized
as of december 31, 2015, for expected dividend payments from subsidiaries. in addition, as of
december 31, 2015, deferred tax liabilities of eur 1,288 thousand (previous year: eur 2,689
thousand) were recognized for withholding taxes likely to occur.

no deferred taxes were recognized for taxable temporary differences arising from investments in
subsidiaries in the amount of eur 431,867 thousand (previous year: eur 314,211 thousand) as of
december 31, 2015, since the company is able to control their reversal and no reversals will be made
in the foreseeable future.

deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax
assets against current tax liabilities and if the deferred taxes relate to income taxes levied by the same
taxation authority.

as of december 31, 2015, gea group recognized deferred tax assets in the amount of eur 334,177
thousand (previous year: eur 295,776 thousand) on tax loss carryforwards:


(eur thousand)                                                                                  12/31/2015    12/31/2014
deferred tax assets on domestic tax loss carryforwards
corporate income tax                                                                               77,000        74,000
trade tax                                                                                          72,024        69,000
deferred tax assets on foreign tax loss carryforwards                                             185,153       152,776
total                                                                                             334,177       295,776



the total amount of the deferred tax assets on tax loss carryforwards largely relates to the
consolidated tax groups in germany and the u.s.a.

no deferred tax assets were recognized for corporate income tax loss carryforwards in the amount of
eur 1,501,961 thousand (previous year: eur 1,616,254 thousand) and trade tax loss carryforwards in the
amount of eur 1,020,728 thousand (previous year: eur 1,117,552 thousand) as their utilization is not
sufficiently certain. the tax loss carryforwards of the german companies can be carried forward for an
indefinite period. foreign tax loss carryforwards can generally only be utilized for a limited period. the
significant tax loss carryforwards of the foreign companies are expected to expire in 2029.




                                                         gea annual report 2015                                            211

                       notes to the consolidated financial statements / consolidated income statement disclosures




      8.9           earnings per share
      earnings per share are calculated as follows:t:

                                                                                                     01/01/2015 -   01/01/2014 -
      (eur thousand)                                                                                  12/31/2015     12/31/2014
      profit for the period attributable to shareholders of gea group aktiengesellschaft                 361,857        320,483
       thereof from continuing operations                                                                264,240        286,019
       thereof from discontinued operations                                                               97,617         34,464
      weighted average number of shares outstanding (thousand)                                           192,495        192,495

      basic and diluted earnings per share (eur)
      from profit for the period                                                                            1.88           1.66
       thereof attributable to continuing operations                                                        1.37           1.49
       thereof attributable to discontinued operations                                                      0.51           0.18



      8.10 appropriation of net profit
      gea group aktiengesellschaft reported net income for the fiscal year of eur 142,666 thousand in
      accordance with the hgb (previous year: eur 140,666 thousand). in fiscal year 2015, an amount of
      eur 10,000 thousand was withdrawn from the other revenue reserves. including the profit brought
      forward of eur 1,799 thousand (previous year: eur 879 thousand), the net retained profits amounted
      to eur 154,464 thousand (previous year: eur 136,546 thousand). in the previous year, the executive
      board and supervisory board appropriated eur 5,000 thousand to the other revenue reserves in
      accordance with section 58(2) sentence 1 of the aktg.

      the executive board and supervisory board will propose to the annual general meeting that the net
      retained profits be appropriated as follows:


      appropriation (eur thousand)                                                                          2015           2014
      dividend payment to shareholders                                                                   153,996        134,747
      profit carried forward                                                                                 468          1,799
      total                                                                                             154,464        136,546



      the dividend payment corresponds to the payment of a dividend of 80 cents per share for a total of
      192,495,476 shares (previous year: 192,495,476 shares). the dividend will be paid from the contribution
      account for tax purposes (section 27 of the körperschaftsteuergesetz (kstg – german corporate income
      tax act)) and therefore without deduction of investment income tax and the solidarity surcharge. in the
      case of shareholders in germany, the dividend is not subject to current taxation in the year of payment.
      the opinion of the german tax authorities (see also the federal ministry of finance (bmf) circular
      dated december 22, 2009, paragraph 92) is that the payment of dividends from the contribution account
      for tax purposes constitutes a repayment of shareholder contributions, which results in a retrospective
      reduction in the cost of the shares. this can lead to the imposition of higher capital gains taxes if the
      shares are sold at a later date.




212                                                                 gea annual report 2015

                                  notes to the consolidated financial statements / contingent liabilities,
                                         other financial obligations, contingent assets, and litigation




9.            contingent liabilities, other financial obligations,
              contingent assets, and litigation
9.1           contingent liabilities
gea group has issued or instructed the issue of both bank and group guarantees in favor of customers or
lenders. the obligations presented in the following table relate to contingent liabilities for which the
primary debtor is not a consolidated company of the group as a whole.

                                                                                    bank guarantees            group guarantees
(eur thousand)                                                                        2015             2014       2015            2014
guarantees for prepayments                                                           10,497           10,248       919            2,202
warranties                                                                            1,087            1,740       880            4,180
performance guarantees                                                               30,124           37,034   145,672       232,690
other declarations of liability                                                        318              334     21,387        50,758
total                                                                                42,026           49,356   168,858       289,830
 thereof attributable to gea heat exchangers                                         26,275           34,151    63,646       108,045
 thereof attributable to lurgi/lentjes                                                2,913            2,914    99,369       171,497



a significant proportion of the bank guarantees and most of the group guarantees are attributable to
the gea heat exchangers segment which was sold on october 31, 2014, as well as to the operating
activities of lurgi and lentjes which were disposed of in previous years (see section 3).

the other guarantees relate mainly to customers of unconsolidated companies and to banks. the
beneficiaries are entitled to asset claims under the guarantees if the primary debtor fails to meet its
contractual obligations, for example, in the case of late or defective delivery, noncompliance with
warranted performance parameters, or failure to repay loans in accordance with the contractual
requirements.

the guarantees include contingent liabilities of eur 9,228 thousand resulting from joint ventures
(previous year: eur 3,461 thousand); there is no further liability above and beyond this.

all guarantees issued by or on the instructions of gea group aktiengesellschaft are issued on behalf
of and with recourse against the relevant primary debtor.

in addition to the liability risks resulting from bank and group guarantees, there are risks in
particular from court, arbitration, or out-of-court disputes (see section 9.3) that could result in cash
outflows.




                                                          gea annual report 2015                                                          213

                                     notes to the consolidated financial statements / contingent liabilities,
                                            other financial obligations, contingent assets, and litigation




      9.2           other financial obligations
      the other financial obligations of the group as a whole as of december 31, 2015, are composed of the
      following items:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                        12/31/2015    12/31/2014
      rental and lease obligations                                                                              105,718     103,221
      purchase commitments                                                                                      103,309     105,325
      total                                                                                                     209,027     208,546


      rental and lease agreements
      the obligations under rental and lease agreements of the group as a whole amount to eur 105,718
      thousand (previous year: eur 103,221 thousand) and relate primarily to land and buildings, and to a
      lesser extent to technical equipment and machinery. the leases run until no later than 2031 (previous
      year: 2031). payments are spread over future fiscal years as follows:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                        12/31/2015    12/31/2014
      not later than one year                                                                                    32,824      33,992
      between one and five years                                                                                 51,676      50,416
      later than five years                                                                                      21,218      18,813
      total                                                                                                     105,718     103,221



      the expenses related to rental and lease agreements of the group as a whole in fiscal year 2015 amounted
      to eur 54,971 thousand (previous year: eur 45,593 thousand). of this amount, eur 11,476 thousand
      (previous year: eur 18,014 thousand) was attributable to variable rents, which are primarily adjusted
      based on consumer price indexes. subleases resulted in income of eur 106 thousand for the group as a
      whole in the fiscal year (previous year: eur 1,562 thousand). these subleases give rise to claims for
      rental income of eur 406 thousand (previous year: eur 721 thousand) over the coming years.

      sale and leaseback transactions relating to buildings resulted in future payments for the group as a
      whole of eur 29,288 thousand at the reporting date (previous year: eur 32,286 thousand).

      purchase commitments
      eur 101,530 thousand (previous year: eur 105,299 thousand) of the purchase commitments is
      attributable to inventories.

      9.3           litigation

      dörries scharmann ag insolvency proceedings
      an action brought by the insolvency administrator of dörries scharmann ag against gea group
      aktiengesellschaft is pending at the düsseldorf regional court. the former metallgesellschaft ag,
      the legal predecessor to gea group aktiengesellschaft, held an interest in schiess ag, which later
      became dörries scharmann ag. on the basis of that interest, the insolvency administrator is
      asserting various claims under company law, in particular for equity substitution, which amount to
      approximately eur 18 million including possible interest. gea group aktiengesellschaft considers
      the asserted claims to be unfounded and will continue to defend itself against all such demands.




214                                                         gea annual report 2015

        notes to the consolidated financial statements / contingent liabilities, other financial obligations,
                              contingent assets, and litigation / segment reporting




general
further legal proceedings or official investigations have been or may be instituted against gea group
companies as a result of earlier business disposals and operating activities.

adequate provisions have been recognized for all risks arising from both the legal disputes described
above and other legal disputes being pursued by gea group in the course of its ordinary operating
activities. however, the outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted with any degree of
certainty. it is therefore possible that the conclusion of the proceedings may result in expenses that
exceed the amounts that may have been set aside for them.




10.      segment reporting
10.1 change in the structure of the operating segments

following intensive preparations, gea’s new group structure – which was developed as part of its
“fit for 2020” initiative – was implemented on june 8, 2015. as part of this new structure, the
development and manufacturing of products and the provision of process solutions have been
bundled in two new business areas – equipment and solutions.

the group’s operating segments were reorganized accordingly during the reporting period. thus, the
former gea mechanical equipment and gea farm technologies segments were allocated to the
business area equipment, while gea process engineering now belongs to the business area
solutions. the former gea refrigeration technologies segment was split between the business areas
equipment and solutions, with the goodwill attributable to the former segment being reallocated
based on the relative values as of the reorganization date.

the administrative functions bundled in the global corporate center and the shared service center
do not constitute separate operating segments. their income and expenses and assets and liabilities
are charged to the business areas, if allocatable. activities that are not part of core business are not
disclosed in the figures for the business areas. this includes investment property held for sale,
pension obligations, and liabilities related to discontinued operations. the former gea heat
exchangers segment, which was sold on october 31, 2014, is also not an operating segment. unlike
the previous year, the figures for gea heat exchangers will no longer appear in segment reporting.
the prior-period information was adjusted to reflect the amended reporting structure.




                                              gea annual report 2015                                            215

                                      notes to the consolidated financial statements / segment reporting




      10.2 operating segments
      gea group’s business activities are divided into the following two business areas:

      business area equipment
      the business area equipment brings together all activities ranging from customer-specific to largely
      standardized equipment offerings. in general, the products are manufactured in large quantities as
      part of large-scale series production on a standardized and modular basis. typical products of the
      business area include separators, valves, pumps, homogenizers and refrigeration compressors. the
      portfolio of equipment also includes process technology for food processing and packaging. the product
      range also extends to automatic feeding systems, slurry engineering, and dairy parlor equipment.

      business area solutions
      the business area solutions brings together all group activities that largely consist of marketing
      customer-specific and modular solutions, and projects. this business area tailors its products and
      services to the specific application or customer requirements. the offering mainly comprises the
      design and development of process solutions for the dairy processing, brewing, food and beverages,
      pharma, and chemical industries.


      (eur million)                                                     ba-e         ba-s       others   consolidation     gea

      01/01/2015 - 12/31/2015
      order intake 1                                                 2,293.0      2,495.6           –          –198.5    4,590.1
      external revenue                                               2,141.7      2,457.6           –               –    4,599.3
      intersegment revenue                                             182.0         17.7           –          –199.6         –
      total revenue                                                  2,323.7      2,475.2           –          –199.6    4,599.3
      share of profit or loss of equity-accounted investments            1.6             1.0        –               –        2.6
      operating ebitda 2                                               381.8        255.3        81.4           –97.6     621.0
       as % of revenue                                                  16.4         10.3           –               –      13.5
      ebitda                                                           308.8        202.6        16.0           –97.6     429.8
      operating ebit 2                                                 326.8        234.8        74.7           –97.6     538.8
       as % of revenue                                                  14.1             9.5        –               –      11.7
      ebit                                                             227.1        170.5          9.3          –97.5     309.4
       as % of revenue                                                   9.8             6.9        –               –        6.7
      roce in % 3                                                       14.7         33.1           –               –      14.6
      interest income                                                    5.4             5.6     28.7           –28.2      11.5
      interest expense                                                  33.3         10.7        35.1           –28.2      50.9
      ebt                                                              199.2        165.4          2.8          –97.5     270.0
      income taxes                                                      33.1         42.5       –16.9           –52.8        5.8
      profit or loss from discontinued operations                         –               –     139.1           –41.5      97.6
      segment assets                                                 3,507.0      2,902.4      4,413.5       –4,701.6    6,121.2
      segment liabilities                                            1,618.4      1,866.3      2,635.8       –2,843.5    3,277.0
      carrying amount of equity-accounted investments                    8.0             5.1      –1.7            5.3      16.6
      working capital (reporting date) 4                               524.6         42.6       –18.3            –2.1     546.8
      additions in property, plant, and equipment, intangible
      assets, and goodwill                                             103.0        161.8          5.9           –0.2     270.4
      depreciation and amortization                                     73.4         27.7          6.7           –0.1     107.7
      impairment losses                                                  8.4             4.3       0.0              –      12.7
      additions to provisions                                          142.3        131.7        43.3             2.8     320.1




216                                                             gea annual report 2015

                                      notes to the consolidated financial statements / segment reporting




(eur million)                                                                             ba-e                    ba-s                 others         consolidation               gea

01/01/2014 - 12/31/2014
order intake 1                                                                        2,295.1                 2,423.4                         –               –198.9            4,519.6
external revenue                                                                      2,126.2                 2,389.5                         –                       –         4,515.7
intersegment revenue                                                                     181.4                    14.9                        –               –196.2                 –
total revenue                                                                         2,307.6                 2,404.3                         –               –196.2            4,515.7
share of profit or loss of equity-accounted investments                                     1.0                     0.8                    0.6                        –             2.4
operating ebitda 2                                                                       351.1                   265.8                    26.6                  –52.9            590.7
 as % of revenue                                                                          15.2                    11.1                        –                       –           13.1
ebitda                                                                                   340.7                  264.5                   –12.4                   –52.9            539.9
operating ebit 2                                                                         298.3                   247.8                    20.3                  –52.9            513.5
 as % of revenue                                                                          12.9                    10.3                        –                       –           11.4
ebit                                                                                     268.3                  243.0                   –18.7                   –52.8            439.9
 as % of revenue                                                                          11.6                    10.1                        –                       –             9.7
roce in % 3                                                                               17.8                    64.7                        –                       –           22.6
interest income                                                                             3.1                     4.6                   22.4                  –23.0               7.1
interest expense                                                                          27.9                      9.7                   55.9                  –20.4             73.1
ebt                                                                                      243.5                   237.9                  –52.2                   –55.4            373.8
income taxes                                                                              56.2                    60.9                  –27.1                     –2.1            87.8
profit or loss from discontinued operations                                                    –                  –5.1                    23.9                    15.7            34.6
segment assets                                                                        3,554.9                 2,463.2                 4,585.8               –4,771.9            5,832.0
segment liabilities                                                                   1,655.5                 1,691.2                 2,871.9               –2,913.8            3,304.8
carrying amount of equity-accounted investments                                             6.9                     4.8                   –1.7                     5.3            15.3
working capital (reporting date) 4                                                       497.7                   –51.9                  –18.3                     –3.1           424.4
additions in property, plant, and equipment, intangible
assets, and goodwill                                                                      72.2                    25.5                    11.0                    –0.5           108.3
depreciation and amortization                                                             72.0                    22.1                     6.3                    –0.1           100.3
impairment losses                                                                           0.4                       –                       –                       –             0.4
additions to provisions                                                                  158.1                   114.0                  115.0                         –          387.2

1) unaudited supplemental information
2) before effects of purchase price allocations and before non-recurring items (see page 218 f.)
3) roce = ebit/capital employed; ebit and capital employed both calculated as the average for the last 12 months and before effects relating to goodwill from the acquisition
   of the former gea ag by the former metallgesellschaft ag in 1999; capital employed = non-current assets + working capital
4) working capital = inventories + trade receivables - trade payables - advance payments received




consolidation primarily comprises the elimination of intercompany revenue and interest income and
expense. intersegment revenue is calculated using standard market prices.




                                                                            gea annual report 2015                                                                                        217

                                 notes to the consolidated financial statements / segment reporting




      sales
      (eur million)                                                                                     2015      2014

      sales from construction contracts
      ba equipment                                                                                     290.9     355.1
      ba solutions                                                                                    1,884.0   1,864.7
      consolidation                                                                                    –14.2     –12.4
      total revenue from construction contracts                                                       2,160.8   2,207.4

      sales components
      ba equipment                                                                                    1,151.4   1,141.5
      ba solutions                                                                                      85.7      89.8
      consolidation                                                                                   –149.4    –148.3
      total sales components                                                                          1,087.6   1,083.0

      total sales from service agreements
      ba equipment                                                                                     881.4     811.1
      ba solutions                                                                                     505.5     449.8
      consolidation                                                                                    –36.0     –35.5
      total revenue from service agreements                                                           1,350.9   1,225.3
      total revenue                                                                                   4,599.3   4,515.7



      the profitability of the two business areas is measured using earnings before interest, tax,
      depreciation, amortization and impairment losses, and reversals of impairment (ebitda), earnings
      before interest and tax (ebit), and profit or loss before tax (ebt) as presented in the income
      statement, irrespective of reclassification to profit or loss from discontinued operations.

      impairment losses include all impairment losses on property, plant, and equipment, intangible assets,
      and investment property.

      out of total restructuring expenses of eur 125.6 million, eur 70.4 million was attributable to the
      business area equipment, and eur 52.1 million to the business area solutions. the remaining
      eur 3.1 million was attributable to “other companies”.
      when calculating operating ebit, management also adjusts the figure for earnings effects that it
      believes will not be incurred to the same extent in future fiscal years (“non-recurring items”.)
      operating ebit for fiscal year 2015 was thus adjusted for non-recurring items totaling eur 197.4
      million (previous year: eur 50.7 million). non-recurring items comprise eur 192.6 million (previous
      year: eur 36.4 million) of expenses for strategic projects, of which eur 125.6 million (previous
      year: eur 0.0 million) was attributable to restructuring expenses. other expenditure in connection
      with strategy projects comprises, in particular, external consulting fees for the “fit for 2020” project,
      outlay in connection with the implementation of shared service centers, personnel expenses for
      project-related incentives, travel costs, and grants for relocation. they also include income from
      pension obligations of eur 9.9 million arising from the closure of a business location (previous
      year: eur 0.0 million). expenses for strategy projects also include ongoing personnel expenses of
      eur 4.6 million (previous year: eur 0.0 million) for employees in the “fit for 2020” project team who
      assumed a new position at gea at the end of the project.




218                                                   gea annual report 2015

                                       notes to the consolidated financial statements / segment reporting




in addition, personnel expenses of eur 4.8 million (previous year: eur 11.7 million) for employees
who left the company in the fiscal year and were not replaced were identified as non-recurring items.
in addition, income of eur 1.3 million from the remeasurement of non-current provisions and the
expense arising from the allocation in accordance with ifrs 5 of service and trademark fees totaling
eur 3.9 million exclusively to continuing operations, i.e., to the business areas, were identified as
non-recurring items in the previous year.

reconciliation of operating ebitda to ebit                                                                                                                       change
(eur million)                                                                                                                            2015        2014          in %
operating ebitda *                                                                                                                      621.0       590.7            5.1
depreciation of property, plant, and equipment, investment property, and amortization of
intangible assets                                                                                                                        –80.7       –77.3          –4.5
impairment losses and reversals of impairment losses on property, plant, and equipment,
investment property, intangible assets, and goodwill                                                                                      –0.4         0.1            –
other impairment losses and reversals of impairment losses                                                                                –1.0           –            –
operating ebit *                                                                                                                        538.8       513.5            4.9
depreciation and amortization on capitalization of purchase price allocation                                                             –26.9       –23.1        –16.8
impairment losses on capitalization of purchase price allocation                                                                          –3.9         0.1            –
realization of step-up amounts on inventories                                                                                             –1.2           –            –
non-recurring items                                                                                                                     –197.4       –50.7       < –100
ebit                                                                                                                                    309.4       439.9         –29.6

*) before effects of purchase price allocations from revalued assets and liabilities and before non-recurring items (see page 218 f.)




the following table shows the reconciliation of ebitda to ebit:

reconciliation of ebitda to ebit
(eur million)                                                                                                                                         2015         2014
ebitda                                                                                                                                               429.8        539.9
depreciation of property, plant, and equipment, investment property, and amortization of intangible assets
(see notes 6.1, 6.2, 6.4)                                                                                                                           –107.7       –100.3
impairment losses and reversals of impairment losses on property, plant, and equipment, investment property,
intangible assets, and goodwill (see notes 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4)                                                                                        –11.7          0.3
impairment losses and reversals of impairment losses on non-current financial assets                                                                   –1.0           –
ebit                                                                                                                                                 309.4        439.9



the following table shows the reconciliation of working capital to total assets:

reconciliation of working capital to total assets
(eur million)                                                                                                                                    12/31/2015   12/31/2014
working capital (reporting date)                                                                                                                     546.8        424.4
working capital (reporting date) of ruhr-zink                                                                                                          –0.3         –0.2
non-current assets                                                                                                                                  2,873.9      2,714.8
income tax receivables                                                                                                                                 26.1         17.5
other current financial assets                                                                                                                       372.3        390.6
cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                                           1,174.2      1,195.9
assets held for sale                                                                                                                                    8.1          5.6
 plus trade payables                                                                                                                                 610.3        639.7
 plus advance payments in respect of orders and construction contracts                                                                               184.5        188.8
 plus gross amount due to customers for contract work                                                                                                325.5        254.9
total assets                                                                                                                                        6,121.2      5,832.0




                                                                              gea annual report 2015                                                                       219

                         notes to the consolidated financial statements / segment reporting / other disclosures




      10.4 disclosures by geographic region
      in the presentation of segment disclosures by geographic region, revenue is allocated by the
      destination of the goods or place of performance of the services, or by customer domicile. assets are
      allocated by their location. the figures quoted relate to the group as a whole.

                                                                         ach     western europe,   north- and
                                                                     & eastern       middle east      central     latin    north
      (eur millions)                        germany   asia pacific     europe           & africa      europe    america   america     total

      01/01/2015 - 12/31/2015
      external revenue                        449.3      1,138.7        465.1             752.9        679.9     276.6     836.8    4,599.3
      non-current assets (property, plant
      and equipment, intangible assets,
      and investment property)              1,186.9        131.4         50.9             223.0        543.1        2.7    191.7    2,329.7

      01/01/2014 - 12/31/2014
      external revenue                        413.1      1,120.9        471.9             719.2        745.9     279.3     765.4    4,515.7
      non-current assets (property, plant
      and equipment, intangible assets,
      and investment property)              1,142.3        130.6         52.6             119.5        531.7        3.4    186.6    2,166.8



      in the reporting period, revenue of eur 767.5 million (previous year: eur 717.7 million) was attributable
      to the united states of america and eur 451.1 million (previous year: eur 422.7 million) was attributable
      to the people’s republic of china. the carrying amounts of the non-current assets (property, plant and
      equipment, intangible assets, and investment property) in the netherlands amounted to eur 438,3 million
      (previous year: eur 430,5 million). there are no relationships with individual customers whose revenue
      can be considered material in comparison to total group revenue.



      11.              other disclosures
      11.1 cash flow disclosures
      cash flow from operating activities in fiscal year 2015 included outflows of eur 22,559 thousand
      (previous year: eur 5,409 thousand) from other discontinued operations. cash flow from investing
      activities of discontinued operations comprises cash flows in connection with operations sold in
      prior years and inflows from the settlement of legal disputes in connection with the former business
      activities of mg technologies ag.

      cash flows from discontinued operations in the previous year mainly comprise the aggregate net
      cash flow of the gea hx segment until the sale was completed on october 31, 2014, and the cash flow
      from its disposal.

      11.2 government grants
      government grants related to income amounting to eur 1,201 thousand were received in fiscal year
      2015 (previous year: eur 842 thousand). of this amount, grants related to assets of eur 171 thousand
      (previous year: eur 364 thousand) were deducted from the carrying amounts of the assets
      concerned. in fiscal year 2015, expenses of eur 28 thousand (previous year: eur 0 thousand) were
      incurred for the potential repayment of grants received.




220                                                        gea annual report 2015

                              notes to the consolidated financial statements / other disclosures




11.3 related party disclosures

11.3.1 related party transactions
transactions between gea group aktiengesellschaft and its consolidated subsidiaries have been
eliminated in the course of consolidation. revenue and expenses from transactions between
continuing and discontinued operations were not eliminated if they will continue to be incurred
following the disposal of the discontinued operation.

transactions with unconsolidated subsidiaries and joint ventures mainly relate to regular deliveries
of goods and services. income and expenses from transactions between the group as a whole and
these companies are composed of the following items:


(eur thousand)                                                                           revenue      other income       other expenses

01/01/2015 - 12/31/2015
unconsolidated subsidiaries                                                                32,257             1,574               1,823
joint ventures                                                                              9,739                    –                  –
total                                                                                     41,996              1,574               1,823

01/01/2014 - 12/31/2014
unconsolidated subsidiaries                                                                55,324             1,482               2,993
joint ventures                                                                              8,119                    –                  –
total                                                                                     63,443              1,482               2,993



related party transactions resulted in the following outstanding items in the group as a whole as of
december 31, 2015:


(eur thousand)                                              trade receivables   trade payables   other receivables       other liabilities

12/31/2015
unconsolidated subsidiaries                                          11,638             6,790             14,238                 25,959
joint ventures                                                        2,715                 –                   –                       –
total                                                                14,353             6,790             14,238                 25,959
 thereof current                                                     14,353             6,790             13,381                 25,959

12/31/2014
unconsolidated subsidiaries                                          10,639             8,066             18,140                 25,285
joint ventures                                                        2,870                 –                   –                       –
total                                                                13,509             8,066             18,140                 25,285
 thereof current                                                     13,509             8,066             16,740                 25,285



the outstanding amounts will be settled by bank transfer and are unsecured.




                                                   gea annual report 2015                                                                    221

       notes to the consolidated financial statements / other disclosures / events after the end of the reporting period /
                            supplemental disclosures in accordance with section 315a of the hgb




      11.3.2 remuneration of the executive board and the supervisory board
      the executive board and supervisory board of gea group aktiengesellschaft received total
      remuneration of eur 9,543 thousand in fiscal year 2015 (previous year: eur 9,349 thousand). this is
      composed of the following components:


      (eur thousand)                                                                                     2015          2014
      short-term employee benefits                                                                      7,094         7,205
      post-employment benefits                                                                          1,900         1,208
      share-based payments                                                                                549           936
      total                                                                                             9,543         9,349



      former executive board members and their surviving dependents received remuneration from the
      gea group amounting to eur 4,992 thousand (previous year: eur 5,168 thousand). pension
      provisions were recognized for former executive board members and their surviving dependents in
      accordance with ifrss totaling eur 62,458 thousand (previous year: eur 64,494 thousand).

      in fiscal 2015, the expenses incurred for the supervisory board amounted to eur 1,168 thousand
      (previous year eur 1,159 thousand).

      other information on the remuneration of the executive board and the supervisory board can be
      found in the remuneration report.

      there were no other transactions by members of the executive board or supervisory board or their
      related parties in either the reporting or the comparative period.



      12.         events after the end of the reporting period
      12.1 acquisition
      on february 2, 2016, gea concluded an agreement to take over imaforni int’l s.p.a., a leading
      supplier of high-tech plant and equipment for pastry production. with head offices in verona, italy,
      the company has around 210 employees and generated revenue of some eur 85 million in fiscal year
      2015. the acquisition will reinforce gea’s “application center bakery” by adding modern production
      lines, especially for biscuits and crackers.



      13.         supplemental disclosures in accordance with
                  section 315a of the hgb
      13.1 declaration on the corporate governance code
      the executive board and the supervisory board issued an updated declaration of conformity in
      accordance with section 161 of the aktiengesetz (aktg – german stock corporation act) on
      december 17, 2015, and made it permanently available to the shareholders on the company’s website.




222                                                 gea annual report 2015

                                                notes to the consolidated financial statements /
                                         supplemental disclosures in accordance with section 315a of the hgb




13.2 number of employees
the average number of employees during the year was as follows:


average number of employees during the year *                                                                   2015     2014
hourly workers                                                                                                  6,192    6,275
salaried employees                                                                                             11,725   11,902
continuing operations                                                                                          17,917   18,177
hourly workers                                                                                                      –    2,396
salaried employees                                                                                                  –    3,011
discontinued operations                                                                                             –    5,407
total                                                                                                          17,917   23,584

*) full-time equivalents (ftes) excluding vocational trainees and inactive employment contracts




the number of employees at the reporting date was as follows:


employees at reporting date *                                                                                   2015     2014
hourly workers                                                                                                  6,112    6,297
salaried employees                                                                                             11,421   11,946
continuing operations                                                                                          17,533   18,243
hourly workers                                                                                                      –       4
salaried employees                                                                                                 1         –
discontinued operations                                                                                            1        4
total                                                                                                          17,534   18,247

*) full-time equivalents (ftes) excluding vocational trainees and inactive employment contracts




13.3 audit and consulting fees
the fees charged worldwide by the auditors of the consolidated financial statements, kpmg ag
wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, for fiscal year 2015 are broken down as follows:


(eur thousand)                                                                                                  2015     2014
audit                                                                                                           4,922    4,284
other audit related services                                                                                      27     1,095
tax consulting services                                                                                         1,318    1,148
other services                                                                                                  1,344     692
total                                                                                                           7,611    7,219



eur 43 thousand of the fees listed for audits in fiscal 2015 is attributable to the audit of the 2014
consolidated financial statements.

in fiscal year 2014, fees for other assurance services amounting to eur 780 thousand were
attributable to assurance services in connection with the financing of the purchase price for the
gea hx segment by the purchaser. in economic terms, these expenses were borne by the purchaser
due to a special purchase price mechanism.




                                                                             gea annual report 2015                              223

                                                       notes to the consolidated financial statements /
                                                supplemental disclosures in accordance with section 315a of the hgb




13.4 investments
the following list shows all subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures. with the exception of other equity investments
within the meaning of section 313(2) no. 4 of the hgb, it does not contain investments in companies that gea group
neither controls nor over which it can exercise significant influence.

                                                                                                                              shares
company                                                                    head office                      country               %


subsidiary
“semenowsky val” immobilien-verwaltungs-gmbh                               bochum                           germany           100.00
beijing tetra laval food machinery company limited i.l.                    beijing                          china              90.00
bock australia pty. ltd.                                                   banksmeadow, new south wales     australia         100.00
breconcherry ltd.                                                          bromyard, herefordshire          great britain     100.00
brouwers equipment b.v.                                                    leeuwarden                       netherlands       100.00
brückenbau plauen gmbh                                                     frankfurt am main                germany           100.00
cfs asia ltd.                                                              bangna, bangkok                  thailand         99.9998
cmt costruzioni meccaniche e tecnologia s.p.a                              peveragno, cueno                 italy             100.00
comas s.p.a.                                                               torrebelvicino, vicenza          italy             100.00
convenience food systems s.a. de c.v.                                      mexico-city                      mexico            100.00
dairy technology services pty limited                                      kyabram, victoria                australia         100.00
de gea westfalia separator ukraine                                         kiev                             ukraine           100.00
dixie-union (uk) ltd.                                                      milton keynes                    great britain     100.00
farmers industries limited                                                 mt. maunganui south, tauranga    new zealand       100.00
finsamoc s.p.a.                                                            vicenza                          italy             100.00
gea (philippines) inc.                                                     manila                           philippines       100.00
gea (shanghai) farm technologies company ltd.                              shanghai                         china             100.00
gea andina s.a.s.                                                          medellin                         colombia          100.00
gea aseptomag ag                                                           kirchberg                        switzerland       100.00
gea aseptomag holding ag                                                   kirchberg                        switzerland       100.00
gea avapac ltd.                                                            hamilton                         new zealand       100.00
gea awp gmbh                                                               prenzlau                         germany           100.00
gea barr-rosin ltd.                                                        maidenhead, berkshire            great britain     100.00
gea beteiligungsgesellschaft ag i.l.                                       bochum                           germany           100.00
gea beteiligungsgesellschaft i mbh                                         bochum                           germany           100.00
gea beteiligungsgesellschaft ii mbh                                        düsseldorf                       germany           100.00
gea beteiligungsgesellschaft iii mbh                                       düsseldorf                       germany           100.00
gea bischoff gmbh                                                          essen                            germany           100.00
gea bischoff oy                                                            helsinki                         finland           100.00
gea bock compressors (hangzhou) co., ltd.                                  hangzhou, zhejiang               china             100.00
gea bock czech s.r.o.                                                      stribro                          czech republic    100.00
gea bock gmbh                                                              frickenhausen                    germany           100.00
gea brewery systems gmbh                                                   kitzingen                        germany           100.00
gea canada inc.                                                            saint john, new brunswick        canada            100.00
gea cee gmbh                                                               vienna                           austria           100.00
gea central america s.a.                                                   panama                           panama            100.00
gea colby pty. ltd.                                                        sydney                           australia         100.00
gea de klokslag automatisering b.v.                                        bolsward                         netherlands       100.00
gea de klokslag engineering b.v.                                           bolsward                         netherlands       100.00
gea de klokslag machinefabriek b.v.                                        bolsward                         netherlands       100.00
gea diessel gmbh                                                           hildesheim                       germany           100.00
gea dutch holding b.v.                                                     s-hertogenbosch                  netherlands       100.00
gea energietechnik anlagen- und betriebs-gmbh                              bochum                           germany           100.00
gea equipamentos e soluções s.a.                                           jaguariúna                       brazil            100.00
gea erste kapitalbeteiligungen gmbh & co. kg                               bochum                           germany           100.00
gea eurotek ltd.                                                           aylsham                          great britain     100.00
gea exergy ab                                                              gothenburg                       sweden            100.00
gea farm technologies (ireland) ltd.                                       cork                             ireland           100.00
gea farm technologies (uk) limited                                         warminster                       great britain     100.00
gea farm technologies argentina s.r.l.                                     buenos aires                     argentina         100.00
gea farm technologies australia pty. ltd.                                  tullamarine, victoria            australia         100.00




       224                                                           gea annual report 2015

                                                      notes to the consolidated financial statements /
                                               supplemental disclosures in accordance with section 315a of the hgb




                                                                                                                                    shares
company                                                                   head office                      country                      %


gea farm technologies austria gmbh                                        plainfeld                        austria                  100.00
gea farm technologies belgium n.v.                                        olen                             belgium                  100.00
gea farm technologies bulgaria eood                                       sofia                            bulgaria                 100.00
gea farm technologies canada inc.                                         drummondville, quebec            canada                   100.00
gea farm technologies chile spa                                           osorno                           chile                    100.00
gea farm technologies croatia d.o.o.                                      dugo selo                        croatia                  100.00
gea farm technologies cz, spol. s.r.o.                                    napajedla                        czech republic           100.00
gea farm technologies france sas                                          château-thierry                  france                   100.00
gea farm technologies gmbh                                                bönen                            germany                  100.00
gea farm technologies ibérica s.l.                                        granollers                       spain                    100.00
gea farm technologies japy sas                                            saint-apollinaire                france                   100.00
gea farm technologies mullerup a/s                                        ullerslev                        denmark                  100.00
gea farm technologies nederland b.v.                                      leeuwarden                       netherlands              100.00
gea farm technologies new zealand limited                                 frankton, hamilton               new zealand              100.00
gea farm technologies românia s.r.l..                                     alba julia                       romania                  100.00
gea farm technologies serbia d.o.o.                                       belgrade                         serbia                   100.00
gea farm technologies slovakia spol. s.r.o.                               piestany                         slovakia                 100.00
gea farm technologies sp. z o.o.                                          bydgoszcz                        poland                   100.00
gea farm technologies tarim ekip.mak.kim. tek.dan.san.tic.ltd.sti.        kemalpasa, izmir                 turkey                   100.00
gea farm technologies, inc.                                               wilmington, delaware             usa                      100.00
gea finland oy                                                            helsinki                         finland                  100.00
gea food solutions (beijing) co., ltd.                                    beijing                          china                    100.00
gea food solutions asia co. limited                                       hongkong                         china                    100.00
gea food solutions b.v.                                                   bakel                            netherlands              100.00
gea food solutions bakel b.v.                                             bakel                            netherlands              100.00
gea food solutions chile comercializadora limitada                        santiago de chile                chile                    100.00
gea food solutions czech s.r.o.                                           prague                           czech republic           100.00
gea food solutions denmark a/s                                            slagelse                         denmark                  100.00
gea food solutions france sas                                             beaucouzé                        france                   100.00
gea food solutions germany gmbh                                           biedenkopf-wallau                germany                  100.00
gea food solutions gmbh                                                   düsseldorf                       germany                  100.00
gea food solutions international a/s                                      slagelse                         denmark                  100.00
gea food solutions international b.v.                                     bakel                            netherlands              100.00
gea food solutions italy s.r.l.                                           grumello del monte               italy                    100.00
gea food solutions japan k.k.                                             shibuya-ku,tokyo                 japan                    100.00
gea food solutions korea co., ltd.                                        seoul                            south korea              100.00
gea food solutions middle east f.z.e.                                     dubai                            united arab emirates     100.00
gea food solutions nordic a/s                                             slagelse                         denmark                  100.00
gea food solutions north america, inc.                                    frisco                           usa                      100.00
gea food solutions poland sp. z o.o.                                      warsaw                           poland                   100.00
gea food solutions rus zao                                                moscow                           russian federation       100.00
gea food solutions south africa (pty) ltd.                                midrand                          south africa             100.00
gea food solutions switzerland ag                                         rothrist                         switzerland              100.00
gea food solutions uk & ireland ltd.                                      milton keynes                    great britain            100.00
gea food solutions ukraine llc                                            kiev                             ukraine                  100.00
gea food solutions weert b.v.                                             weert                            netherlands              100.00
gea grasso tov                                                            kiev                             ukraine                  100.00
gea grasso uab                                                            vilnius                          lithuania                100.00
gea grenco ltd.                                                           sittingbourne, kent              great britain            100.00
gea group holding france sas                                              montigny le bretonneux           france                   100.00
gea group holding gmbh                                                    bochum                           germany                  100.00
gea group holdings (uk) limited                                           eastleigh, hampshire             great britain            100.00
gea insurance broker gmbh                                                 frankfurt am main                germany                  100.00
gea ireland limited                                                       kildare                          ireland                  100.00
gea it services gmbh                                                      oelde                            germany                  100.00
gea lyophil (beijing) ltd.                                                beijing                          china                    100.00
gea lyophil gmbh                                                          hürth                            germany                  100.00
gea mechanical equipment (tianjin) co., ltd.                              wuqing                           china                    100.00
gea mechanical equipment canada, inc.                                     saint john, new brunswick        canada                   100.00




                                                                     gea annual report 2015                                       225

                                                         notes to the consolidated financial statements /
                                                  supplemental disclosures in accordance with section 315a of the hgb




                                                                                                                                      shares
company                                                                      head office                      country                     %


gea mechanical equipment gmbh                                                oelde                            germany                 100.00
gea mechanical equipment italia s.p.a.                                       parma                            italy                   100.00
gea mechanical equipment uk limited                                          milton keynes                    great britain           100.00
gea mechanical equipment us, inc.                                            wilmington, delaware             usa                     100.00
gea messo gmbh                                                               duisburg                         germany                 100.00
gea middle east fze                                                          dubai                            united arab emirates    100.00
gea milfos international limited                                             frankton, hamilton               new zealand             100.00
gea mts flowtec ag                                                           kirchberg                        switzerland             100.00
gea new zealand limited                                                      stratford                        new zealand             100.00
gea niro gmbh                                                                müllheim                         germany                 100.00
gea niro pt b.v.                                                             s-hertogenbosch                  netherlands             100.00
gea north america, inc.                                                      delaware                         usa                     100.00
gea norway as                                                                oslo                             norway                  100.00
gea nu-con limited                                                           penrose, auckland                new zealand             100.00
gea nu-con pty. ltd.                                                         sutherland, sydney               australia               100.00
gea pharma systems (india) private limited                                   vadodara, gujarat                india                   100.00
gea pharma systems ag                                                        bubendorf                        switzerland             100.00
gea pharma systems limited                                                   eastleigh hampshire              great britain           100.00
gea power cooling de mexico s. de r.l. de c.v.                               naucalpan de juárez, mexico      mexico                  100.00
gea process engineering (india) private limited                              vadodara, gujarat                india                   100.00
gea process engineering (philippines) inc.                                   manila                           philippines             100.00
gea process engineering (pty) ltd.                                           midrand                          south africa            100.00
gea process engineering (thailand) co., ltd.                                 bangkok                          thailand                100.00
gea process engineering a/s                                                  soeborg                          denmark                 100.00
gea process engineering asia ltd.                                            hongkong                         china                   100.00
gea process engineering cee kft.                                             budaörs                          hungary                 100.00
gea process engineering chile s.a.                                           santiago de chile                chile                   100.00
gea process engineering china limited                                        shanghai                         china                   100.00
gea process engineering china ltd.                                           shanghai                         china                   100.00
gea process engineering inc.                                                 columbia                         usa                     100.00
gea process engineering japan ltd.                                           tokyo                            japan                   100.00
gea process engineering ltd.                                                 birchwood,cheshire,warrington    great britain           100.00
gea process engineering ltd.                                                 penrose, auckland                new zealand             100.00
gea process engineering n.v.                                                 halle                            belgium                 100.00
gea process engineering nederland b.v.                                       deventer                         netherlands             100.00
gea process engineering ooo                                                  moscow                           russian federation      100.00
gea process engineering pte. ltd.                                            singapore                        singapore               100.00
gea process engineering pty. ltd.                                            blackburn, victoria              australia               100.00
gea process engineering s.a.                                                 buenos aires                     argentina               100.00
gea process engineering s.a.                                                 alcobendas, madrid               spain                   100.00
gea process engineering s.a. de c.v.                                         naucalpan de juárez, mexico      mexico                  100.00
gea process engineering s.a.s.                                               saint-quentin en yvelines ced.   france                  100.00
gea process engineering s.p.a.                                               segrate                          italy                   100.00
gea process engineering s.r.o.                                               brno                             czech republic          100.00
gea process engineering taiwan ltd.                                          taipeh                           taiwan                  100.00
gea process engineering trading (shanghai) limited                           shanghai                         china                   100.00
gea process engineering z o.o.                                               warsaw                           poland                  100.00
gea process mühendislik makine insaat taahüt ithalat ihracat danis.
san. ve tic. ltd. sti.                                                       kemalpasa, izmir                 turkey                  100.00
gea process technologies ireland limited                                     dublin                           ireland                 100.00
gea procomac s.p.a.                                                          sala baganza                     italy                   100.00
gea real estate gmbh                                                         frankfurt am main                germany                 100.00
gea refrigeration (thailand) co. ltd.                                        nonthaburi                       thailand               99.9994
gea refrigeration africa (pty) ltd.                                          capetown                         south africa            100.00
gea refrigeration australia pty. ltd.                                        carrum downs, victoria           australia               100.00
gea refrigeration canada inc.                                                richmond                         canada                  100.00
gea refrigeration components (nordic) a/s                                    skanderborg                      denmark                 100.00
gea refrigeration components (uk) ltd.                                       ross-on-wye, herfordshire        great britain           100.00
gea refrigeration czech republic s.r.o.                                      prague                           czech republic          100.00




      226                                                              gea annual report 2015

                                                         notes to the consolidated financial statements /
                                                  supplemental disclosures in accordance with section 315a of the hgb




                                                                                                                                     shares
company                                                                      head office                      country                    %


gea refrigeration france sas                                                 les sorinières                   france                 100.00
gea refrigeration germany gmbh                                               berlin                           germany                100.00
gea refrigeration hong kong ltd.                                             hongkong                         china                  100.00
gea refrigeration ibérica s.a.                                               alcobendas, madrid               spain                  100.00
gea refrigeration india private limited                                      vadodara, gujarat                india                  100.00
gea refrigeration ireland limited                                            cavan                            ireland                100.00
gea refrigeration italy s.p.a.                                               castel maggiore, bologna         italy                  100.00
gea refrigeration maghreb sarlau                                             casablanca                       morocco                100.00
gea refrigeration malaysia sdn. bhd.                                         petaling jaya                    malaysia               100.00
gea refrigeration netherlands n.v.                                           s-hertogenbosch                  netherlands            100.00
gea refrigeration north america, inc.                                        york, pennsylvania               usa                    100.00
gea refrigeration poland sp. z o. o.                                         gdynia                           poland                 100.00
gea refrigeration romania s.r.l.                                             cluj-napoca                      romania                100.00
gea refrigeration singapore pte. ltd.                                        singapore                        singapore              100.00
gea refrigeration technologies gmbh                                          bochum                           germany                100.00
gea refrigeration technology (suzhou) co., ltd.                              suzhou                           china                  100.00
gea refrigeration uk ltd.                                                    london                           great britain          100.00
gea refrigeration vietnam co. ltd.                                           ho chi min city                  vietnam                100.00
gea scan-vibro a/s                                                           svendborg                        denmark                100.00
gea segment management holding gmbh                                          düsseldorf                       germany                100.00
gea services and components ooo                                              moscow                           russian federation     100.00
gea suisse ag                                                                ittigen                          switzerland            100.00
gea sweden ab                                                                gothenburg                       sweden                 100.00
gea tds gmbh                                                                 sarstedt                         germany                100.00
gea tuchenhagen france                                                       hoenheim                         france                 100.00
gea tuchenhagen gmbh                                                         büchen                           germany                100.00
gea tuchenhagen polska sp. z o.o.                                            koszalin                         poland                 100.00
gea verwaltungs ag                                                           düsseldorf                       germany                100.00
gea west africa limited                                                      lagos                            nigeria                100.00
gea westfalia separator (china) ltd.                                         wanchai, hongkong                china                  100.00
gea westfalia separator (malaysia) sdn. bhd.                                 petaling jaya                    malaysia               100.00
gea westfalia separator (s.e.a.) pte. ltd.                                   singapore                        singapore              100.00
gea westfalia separator (thailand) ltd.                                      bangkok                          thailand                   97,30
gea westfalia separator (tianjin) co., ltd.                                  tianjin                          china                  100.00
gea westfalia separator argentina s.a.                                       buenos aires                     argentina              100.00
gea westfalia separator australia pty. ltd.                                  thomastown, victoria             australia              100.00
gea westfalia separator belgium n.v.                                         schoten                          belgium                100.00
gea westfalia separator chile s.a.                                           santiago de chile                chile                  100.00
gea westfalia separator cis ltd.                                             moscow                           russian federation     100.00
gea westfalia separator cz s.r.o.                                            prague                           czech republic         100.00
gea westfalia separator deutschland gmbh                                     oelde                            germany                100.00
gea westfalia separator dk a/s                                               skanderborg                      denmark                100.00
gea westfalia separator france                                               château-thierry                  france                 100.00
gea westfalia separator group gmbh                                           oelde                            germany                100.00
gea westfalia separator hellas a.e.                                          athens                           greece                 100.00
gea westfalia separator hungária kft.                                        budaörs                          hungary                100.00
gea westfalia separator ibérica, s.a.                                        granollers                       spain                  100.00
gea westfalia separator iceland ehf                                          reykjavik                        island                 100.00
gea westfalia separator india private limited                                new delhi                        india                  100.00
gea westfalia separator indonesia, pt                                        jakarta                          indonesia              100.00
gea westfalia separator ireland ltd.                                         ballincollig cork                ireland                100.00
gea westfalia separator japan k.k.                                           minato-ku,tokyo                  japan                  100.00
gea westfalia separator korea ltd.                                           seoul                            south korea            100.00
gea westfalia separator mexicana s.a. de c.v.                                cuernavaca,morelos               mexico                 100.00
gea westfalia separator nederland b.v.                                       cuijk                            netherlands            100.00
gea westfalia separator nederland services b.v.                              cuijk                            netherlands            100.00
gea westfalia separator nz ltd.                                              mount wellington, auckland       new zealand            100.00
gea westfalia separator phils. inc.                                          manila                           philippines            100.00
gea westfalia separator polska sp. z o.o.                                    warsaw                           poland                 100.00




                                                                       gea annual report 2015                                      227

                                                         notes to the consolidated financial statements /
                                                  supplemental disclosures in accordance with section 315a of the hgb




                                                                                                                                     shares
company                                                                      head office                      country                    %


gea westfalia separator production france                                    château-thierry                  france                 100.00
gea westfalia separator romania s.r.l.                                       bucharest                        romania                100.00
gea westfalia separator sanayi ve ticaret ltd. sti.                          kemalpasa, izmir                 turkey                 100.00
gea westfalia separator south africa (pty) ltd.                              midrand                          south africa           100.00
gea wiegand gmbh                                                             ettlingen                        germany                100.00
hilge gmbh & co. kg                                                          bodenheim                        germany                 94.00
hilge international verwaltungs gmbh                                         bodenheim                        germany                100.00
hovex b.v.                                                                   veendam                          netherlands            100.00
ket marine asia pte. ltd.                                                    singapore                        singapore              100.00
ket marine international b.v.                                                zevenbergen                      netherlands            100.00
kupferbergbau stadtberge zu niedermarsberg gmbh                              frankfurt am main                germany                100.00
ll plant engineering (india) private limited                                 mumbai maharashtra               india                  100.00
ll plant engineering ag                                                      ratingen                         germany                100.00
mg altersversorgung gmbh                                                     bochum                           germany                100.00
mg capital gmbh                                                              bochum                           germany                100.00
mg stahlhandel gmbh                                                          bochum                           germany                100.00
mg venture capital ag i.l.                                                   bochum                           germany                100.00
mg vv projektgesellschaft hornpottweg gmbh                                   frankfurt am main                germany                100.00
milfos australia pty. limited                                                sydney                           australia              100.00
milfos uk limited                                                            droitwich, worcestershire        great britain          100.00
niro sterner inc.                                                            columbia                         usa                    100.00
nu-con (shanghai) trading co. ltd.                                           pudong, shanghai                 china                  100.00
nu-con systems sdn. bhd.                                                     shah alam, selangor              malaysia               100.00
ooo gea farm technologies rus                                                moscow                           russian federation     100.00
ooo gea farm technologies ukraine                                            bila zerkva                      ukraine                100.00
ooo gea refrigeration rus                                                    moscow                           russian federation     100.00
paul pollrich gmbh                                                           herne                            germany                100.00
pelacci s.r.l. i.l.                                                          sala baganza                     italy                   67.00
pt. gea refrigeration indonesia                                              jakarta barat, cengkareng        indonesia              100.00
royal de boer stalinrichtingen b.v.                                          leeuwarden                       netherlands            100.00
ruhr-zink gmbh                                                               frankfurt am main                germany                100.00
sachtleben bergbau verwaltungsgesellschaft mit beschränkter haftung          lennestadt                       germany                100.00
stemal due s.r.l.                                                            torrebelvicino, vicenza          italy                  100.00
stemal s.r.l.                                                                torrebelvicino, vicenza          italy                  100.00
trennschmelz altersversorgung gmbh                                           bochum                           germany                100.00
vdm-hilfe gmbh                                                               frankfurt am main                germany                100.00
wilarus ooo                                                                  kolomna                          russian federation     100.00
wolfking limited                                                             milton keynes                    great britain          100.00
wolfking llc                                                                 frisco                           usa                    100.00
ziag plant engineering gmbh                                                  frankfurt am main                germany                100.00
associated companies
imai s.a.                                                                    buenos aires                     argentina               20.00
polyamid 2000 handels- und produktionsgesellschaft premnitz ag i.i.          premnitz                         germany                 49,90
technofrigo abu dhabi i.l.                                                   abu dhabi                        united arab emirates    49,00
zao moscow coffee house                                                      moscow                           russian federation      29,00
joint ventures
blue glacier technology, llc                                                 durham                           usa                     50.00
crismil s.a.                                                                 montevideo                       uruguay                 49.00
gea orion farm technologies co., ltd.                                        nagano                           japan                   49.00
grade grasso adearest limited                                                dubai                            united arab emirates    50.00
grade refrigeration llc                                                      sharjah                          united arab emirates    49.00
merton wohnprojekt gmbh                                                      frankfurt am main                germany                 50.00
other equity investments under section 313 (2) no. 4 of the hgb
bauverein oelde gmbh                                                         oelde                            germany                 35.50
epsa empresa paulista de servicos ambientais s.a.                            sao paulo, sao paulo             brazil                  47.50
indo technofrigo ltd. i.l.                                                   rajkot                           india                   49.00




       228                                                             gea annual report 2015

                             notes to the consolidated financial statements /
                      supplemental disclosures in accordance with section 315a of the hgb




13.5 companies exempted in accordance with sections 264(3)
and 264b of the hgb
the following german companies are exempted from the duty to comply with the supplementary
accounting, audit, and publication provisions applicable to corporations and certain partnerships in
accordance with sections 264(3) and 264b of the hgb:

gea awp gmbh, prenzlau
gea bischoff gmbh, essen
gea bock gmbh, frickenhausen
gea brewery systems gmbh, kitzingen
gea diessel gmbh, hildesheim
gea energietechnik anlagen- und betriebs-gmbh, bochum
gea erste kapitalbeteiligungen gmbh & co. kg, bochum
gea farm technologies gmbh, bönen
gea food solutions germany gmbh, biedenkopf-wallau
gea group holding gmbh, bochum
gea insurance broker gmbh, frankfurt am main
gea it services gmbh, oelde
gea lyophil gmbh, hürth
gea mechanical equipment gmbh, oelde
gea messo gmbh, duisburg
gea niro gmbh, müllheim
gea real estate gmbh, frankfurt am main
gea refrigeration germany gmbh, berlin
gea refrigeration technologies gmbh, bochum
gea tds gmbh, sarstedt
gea tuchenhagen gmbh, büchen
gea westfalia separator deutschland gmbh, oelde
gea westfalia separator group gmbh, oelde
gea wiegand gmbh, ettlingen
hilge gmbh & co. kg, bodenheim
ll plant engineering ag, ratingen
mg altersversorgung gmbh, bochum
mg capital gmbh, bochum
mg vv projektgesellschaft hornpottweg gmbh, frankfurt am main
paul pollrich gmbh, herne
ziag plant engineering gmbh, frankfurt am main



düsseldorf, february 26, 2016

the executive board




jürg oleas       dr. helmut schmale            steffen bersch         niels erik olsen      dr. stephan petri




                                           gea annual report 2015                                               229

                                          independent group auditor’s report




      independent group auditor’s report
      we have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by the gea group aktiengesellschaft,
      düsseldorf – comprising the consolidated balance sheet, consolidated income statement, consolidated
      statement of comprehensive income, consolidated cash flow statement, consolidated statement of changes
      in equity and notes to the consolidated statements – together with the group management report combined
      with the management report of the parent company (combined group management report) for the financial
      year from january 1, 2015 to december 31, 2015. the preparation of the consolidated financial statements
      and the combined group management report in accordance with ifrss as adopted by the eu, and the
      additional requirements of german commercial law pursuant to section 315a (1) of the german commercial
      code [hgb] and supplementary provisions of the articles of incorporation are the responsibility of the
      parent company`s management. our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial
      statements and on the combined group management report based on our audit.

      we conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with section 317 of the
      german commercial code [hgb] and german generally accepted standards for the audit of financial
      statements promulgated by the german institute of public auditors [idw]. those standards require that we
      plan and perform the audit such that misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the net assets,
      financial position and results of operations in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the
      applicable financial reporting framework and in the combined group management report are detected with
      reasonable assurance. knowledge of the business activities and the economic and legal environment of the
      group and expectations as to possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit
      procedures. the effectiveness of the accounting-related internal control system and the evidence supporting
      the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the combined group management report are
      examined primarily on a test basis within the framework of the audit. the audit includes assessing the
      annual financial statements of those entities included in consolidation, the determination of entities to be
      included in consolidation, the accounting and consolidation principles used and significant estimates made
      by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and
      combined group management report. we believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

      our audit has not led to any reservations.

      in our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the consolidated financial statements comply with
      ifrss as adopted by the eu, the additional requirements of german commercial law pursuant to section
      315a (1) of the german commercial code [hgb] and supplementary provisions of the articles of
      incorporation and give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations
      of the group in accordance with these requirements. the combined group management report is
      consistent with the consolidated financial statements and as a whole provides a suitable view of the
      group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development.

      düsseldorf, february 26, 2016

      kpmg ag
      wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft

      guido moesta				            dr. markus zeimes
      wirtschaftsprüfer				wirtschaftsprüfer
      (german public auditor) 			 (german public auditor)




230                                                gea annual report 2015

                                         responsibility statement




responsibility statement
to the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the
consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position,
and profit or loss of the group, and the management report of the group, which has been combined
with the management report of the company, includes a fair review of the development and
performance of the business and the position of the group, together with a description of the
principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the group.



düsseldorf, february 26, 2016

the executive board




jürg oleas        dr. helmut schmale          steffen bersch       niels erik olsen    dr. stephan petri




                                          gea annual report 2015                                              231

                                         the company’s executive bodies and their appointments




      the company’s executive bodies
      and their appointments
      executive board                                                     supervisory board
      jürg oleas, meerbusch (germany)/hausen b. brugg (switzerland),      dr. jürgen heraeus, maintal, germany,
      ceo – chairman of the executive board                               chairman of the supervisory board
                                                                          chairman of the supervisory board of heraeus holding gmbh
      a) - ll plant engineering ag, ratingen, germany,
      		 chairman of the supervisory board                                a) - heraeus holding gmbh, hanau, germany,
      b) - gea process engineering a/s, søborg, denmark,                  		 chairman of the supervisory board
      		 chairman of the supervisory board                                   - hauck & aufhäuser privatbankiers kgaa,
          - ruag holding ag, bern, switzerland,                           		 frankfurt am main, germany,
      		 member of the board of directors                                 		 member of the supervisory board
          - holcim ltd, zürich, switzerland,                                 - messer group gmbh, sulzbach, germany,
      		 member of the board of directors (until july 10, 2015)           		 chairman of the supervisory board
          - bih sa, jona, switzerland,
        		 member of the board of direcors (from november 27, 2015)
          - schweizerische cement-industrie-aktiengesellschaft,           reinhold siegers, mönchengladbach, germany,
      		 jona, switzerland,                                               deputy chairman of the supervisory board
        		 member of the board of directors (from november 27, 2015)      deputy chairman of the works council of
                                                                          gea group aktiengesellschaft

      dr. helmut schmale, bochum,
      cfo – chief financial officer                                       ahmad m.a. bastaki, safat, kuwait,
                                                                          executive director, planning and senior management support,
      b) - gea north america, inc., delaware, u.s.a.,                     office of the managing director,
      		 chairman of the board of directors                               kuwait investment authority
         - commerzbank ag, frankfurt am main, germany,
      		 member of the northwest regional advisory board
                                                                          prof. dr. ing. werner bauer, lutry, switzerland,
                                                                          chairman of the supervisory board of nestlé deutschland ag
      markus hüllmann, rheda-wiedenbrück,
      coo – member of the executive board (until 31.12.2015)              a) - nestlé deutschland ag, frankfurt am main, germany,
                                                                          		 chairman of the supervisory board
      b) - gea north america, inc., delaware, u.s.a.,                        - bertelsmann se & co. kgaa / bertelsmann management se,
      		 member of the board of directors                                 		 gütersloh, germany,
         - dechema e.v., frankfurt/main, germany                          		 member of the supervisory board
      		 member of the executive board                                    b) - lonza s.a., basel, switzerland,
                                                                          		 member of the board of director
                                                                             - givaudan s.a., vernier, switzerland,
      dr. stephan petri, essen, germany,                                  		 member of the board of directors
      human resources & legal, revision –
      member of the executive board
                                                                          hartmut eberlein, gehrden, germany,
      a) - ll plant engineering ag, ratingen, germany,                    chairman of the audit committee of
      		 deputy chairman of the supervisory board                         gea group aktiengesellschaft
         - gea farm technologies gmbh, bönen, germany,
      		 chairman of the supervisory board
         - gea westfalia separator group gmbh, oelde, germany,            rainer gröbel, sulzbach/ts., germany,
      		 chairman of the supervisory boards                               departmental head, ig metall, management board

                                                                          a) - schunk gmbh, heuchelheim, germany,
                                                                          		 deputy chairman of the supervisory board


                                                                          michael kämpfert, düsseldorf,
                                                                          vice president hr dach & ee


                                                                          eva-maria kerkemeier, herne,
                                                                          1. bevollmächtigte der ig metall, herne bochum




232                                                           gea annual report 2015

                                 the company’s executive bodies and their appointments




brigitte krönchen, oelde,
deputy chairman of the central works council of
                                                                   supervisory board committees
gea farm technologies gmbh, bönen, germany                         of gea group aktiengesellschaft
                                                                   (as of december 31, 2015)
kurt-jürgen löw, ebernhahn, germany,
chairman of the works council of                                   mediation committee in accordance with section 27(3) of the
gea westfalia separator group gmbh                                 mitbestimmungsgesetz (mitbestg – german co-determination act)
                                                                   dr. jürgen heraeus, chairman
a) - gea westfalia separator group gmbh, oelde, germany,           dr. helmut perlet
		 deputy chairman of the supervisory board                        reinhold siegers
                                                                   kurt-jürgen löw

dr. helmut perlet, munich, germany,                                presiding committee
chairman of the supervisory board of allianz se                    dr. jürgen heraeus, chairman
                                                                   dr. helmut perlet
a) - allianz se, munich, germany,                                  reinhold siegers
		 chairman of the supervisory board                               rainer gröbel
   - commerzbank ag, frankfurt am main, germany,
		 member of the supervisory board                                 audit committee
                                                                   hartmut eberlein, chairman (financial expert within the meaning of
                                                                   section 100(5) of the aktiengesetz (aktg – german stock corporation act))
jean spence, wilmette/il, u.s.a.,                                  dr. jürgen heraeus
executive vice president                                           kurt-jürgen löw
research, development & quality                                    brigitte krönchen
mondeléz international (until april 1, 2015)
corporate consultant, president, jes consulting, llc               nomination committee
                                                                   dr. jürgen heraeus, chairman
                                                                   prof. dr. ing. werner bauer
                                                                   dr. helmut perlet




                                                                   a) membership of statutory german supervisory boards

                                                                   b) membership of comparable german or foreign
                                                                      supervisory bodies of business entities




                                                       gea annual report 2015                                                                  233

                                                                                    key figures by quarter




      key figures by quarter

                                                               q1            q1           q2            q2           q3        q3        q4        q4
                                                             2015          2014         2015          2014         2015      2014      2015      2014      2015      2014      2013

      order intake (eur million)
      ba equipment                                          586.5         574.9        573.0         569.7        546.9     564.7     586.6     585.8    2,293.0   2,295.1   2,230.2
      ba solutions                                          588.3         502.1        628.9         652.4        573.7     646.5     704.6     622.3    2,495.6   2,423.4   2,585.5
      gea                                                1,127.5       1,024.3       1,148.8      1,169.9        1,068.3   1,167.9   1,245.5   1,157.5   4,590.1   4,519.6   4,627.9

      revenue (eur million)
      ba equipment                                          527.0         495.4        587.9         565.4        558.9     598.3     650.0     648.5    2,323.7   2,307.6   2,164.0
      ba solutions                                          526.0         502.2        612.9         603.3        594.4     594.9     741.9     704.0    2,475.2   2,404.3   2,338.3
      gea                                                1,006.4          950.7      1,150.1       1,117.7       1,106.6   1,146.0   1,336.2   1,301.4   4,599.3   4,515.7   4,320.0

      ebitda (eur million)
      ba equipment                                            64.5         56.6          27.6          72.4        90.4      85.7     126.4     126.0     308.8     340.7     312.4
      ba solutions                                            31.7         34.2          31.1          57.8        45.1      58.6      94.6     113.8     202.6     264.5     233.0
      gea                                                     93.0         83.0            6.4       123.1        110.4     140.0     220.0     193.9     429.8     539.9     515.2

      operating ebitda * (eur million)
      ba equipment                                            67.4         56.6          84.5          72.4        92.4      90.5     137.6     131.7     381.8     351.1     312.7
      ba solutions                                            32.3         34.2          58.1          57.8        51.9      60.3     113.1     113.5     255.3     265.8     233.0
      gea                                                     98.2         85.1        139.3         128.0        143.7     149.0     239.8     228.5     621.0     590.7     530.1

      operating ebitda margin * (%)
      ba equipment                                            12.8         11.4          14.4          12.8        16.5      15.1      21.2      20.3      16.4      15.2      14.4
      ba solutions                                             6.1           6.8           9.5          9.6          8.7     10.1      15.2      16.1      10.3      11.1      10.0
      gea                                                      9.8           9.0         12.1          11.5        13.0      13.0      17.9      17.6      13.5      13.1      12.3

      *) before effects of purchase price allocations from revalued assets and liabilities and before one-offs




234                                                                                 gea annual report 2015

                                                              financial calendar




financial calendar
april 20, 2016			                                   annual shareholders‘ meeting for 2015

may 09, 2016			                                     quarterly financial report for the period to march 31, 2016

july 28, 2016			                                    half-yearly financial report for the period to june 30, 2016

october 28, 2016		                                  quarterly financial report for the period to september 30, 2016



the gea stock: key data                                                      american depository receipts (adr)

wkn                           660 200                                        wkn (cusip)              361592108
isin                          de0006602006                                   symbol                   geagy
reuters code                  g1ag.de                                        sponsor                  deutsche bank trust company americas
bloomberg code                g1a.gr                                         adr-level                1
xetra                         g1a.de                                         ratio                    1:1



communication, marketing & branding                                          investor relations
tel.         +49 (0)211 9136-1492                                            tel.         +49 (0)211 9136-1082
fax          +49 (0)211 9136-31492                                           fax          +49 (0)211 9136-31082
mail         pr@gea.com                                                      mail         ir@gea.com




this report includes forward-looking statements on gea group aktiengesellschaft, its subsidiaries and associates, and on the economic and
political conditions that may influence the business performance of gea. all these statements are based on assumptions made by the executive
board using information available to it at the time. should these assumptions prove to be wholly or partly incorrect, or should further risks arise,
actual business performance may differ from that expected. the executive board therefore cannot assume any liability for the statements made.




imprint

published by:		 gea group aktiengesellschaft
			             peter-müller-straße 12
			40468 düsseldorf
			             www.gea.com
design:			                             www.kpad.de, jp kom gmbh (pages 1 - 13)
printed by:		 griebsch & rochol druck, hamm
			           this report is printed on environment-friendly fsc® paper. the printing
			           company used by us has its own environmental ma-nagement system and
			           uses state-of-the-art technology. printing inks containing heavy metals are
			not used.
picture credits:		                     shutterstock (s. 6), polylooks (s. 6), gea
this report is a translation of the german original; in the event of variances,
the german version shall take precedence over the englisch translation.




                                                           gea annual report 2015                                                                      235

we live our values.
excellence • passion • integrity • responsibility • gea-versity
gea is a global engineering company with ­multi-billion euro sales and ­operations in more than 50 countries. founded
in 1881 the company is one of the largest providers of ­innovative equipment and ­process technology. gea is listed in
the stoxx® europe 600 index.




gea group aktiengesellschaft
peter-müller-straße 12
40468 düsseldorf
germany
phone: +49 211 9136-0                                                                                          gea.com
