        glasswing international       annual report 2015




annual report 2015-2016
                                  1


      glasswing international       annual report 2015




thank you
                                            dear friends,

                                            this was our busiest and most exciting year to date! our commitment has never
                                            been stronger, and our mission to break vicious cycles of poverty and violence
                                            makes us strive to do more every day.

                                            in 2015, marking our year of community, we expanded our programs and
                                            deepened our impact to reach over one hundred vulnerable communities,
                                            throughout fourteen developing countries. we also grew our team, strengthened
                                            our leadership, and implemented our programs in four new countries: aruba,
                                            ecuador, guyana, and jamaica. our programs have impacted a total of 738,755
                                            children and families, and counting!

                                            our success would not be possible without our dedicated and passionate
                                            supporters and volunteers that help us drive our programs and impact
                                            forward. we are thankful for your support, and hope to continue to inspire your
                                            commitment by sharing in our progress.




                                            ken baker                      diego de sola
                                            ceo                            president
                                            glasswing international        glasswing international




                                3

           who we are                 5
           where we work              6

           the glasswing model        7
           our impact                 8
           our programs               9
              education               10
              health                  13
              community empowerment   15
              special initiatives     18
           our results                19

           our partners               20
           our team                   21
           our financials             22
           looking ahead              23




table of contents

glasswing international       annual report 2015




                                                                                who we are


                              we believe:

                              • all children and their families have
                              the right to live in safe, happy, and
                              healthy communities, with resources
                              and opportunities to thrive

                              • all children and their families
                              have the right to quality education
                              and healthcare




                              glasswing international works in some of the most violent, volatile, and
                              impoverished communities in the world. children are raised with limited
                              opportunity and nearly 70% abandon their education before entering high
                              school. these overwhelming challenges have led to a two-fold increase in the
                              number of children in youth attempting to flee their countries of origin, singling
                              a humanitarian crisis.




                          5

where we are

we believe that building inclusive
and unified communities leads to
lasting, sustainable change.

                                                                                human resources




glasswing’s work is rooted in community engagement. our
holistic, cross-sector approach forges partnerships with
international and local governments, corporations, non-profits,        public                     private
and civil society – leveraging their resources and capabilities – to                              sector
strengthen existing education and health systems, and deliver
                                                                       sector
high-impact, innovative, sustainable solutions.




                                                                                  community
                                                                                  priorities




the
glasswing model

impact
over the past nine years, glasswing has impacted
more than 738,755 lives.




results in 2015:
83,703
total number of direct beneficiaries
90                   12,884     140,857
schools              volunteers hours donated


beneficiaries per department:
20,021                                   36,041
complementary education                  infrastructure
and enrichment

27,468                                   173
health                                   employability

                  glasswing international       annual report 2015




our programs

      education                                                           health




community empowerment                                                special initiatives



                                            9

glasswing international    annual report 2015




                                                                                   education




                                                schools are the heart of the community. through our ‘extreme
                                                school makeover’ renovations, after-school educational and
                                                enrichment programs, and workforce development initiative,
                                                we equip children and youth with key life skills and abilities that
                                                enable them to thrive, despite adversity.




                                                99,195
                                                children and youth impacted

                                                20,021
                                                kids enrolled in weekly
                                                after school programs in 2015




                      10

                                                                             glasswing international    annual report 2015




                                                                                                                             spotlight:
                                                                                                                         glasswing international’s
                                                                                                                               community schools

this year, we announced our ‘commitment to action,’ with the clinton
global initiative, embarking on a journey that will turn 100 public
schools across central america into glasswing ‘community schools’
by 2019. these schools focus on strengthening community ties and
transforming public schools into safe, stimulating, and positive
learning environments. in partnership with samsung, usaid, among
others, we have built 53 community schools across central america.


impact
• 90% of glasswing students feel more motivated to go to school
• 88% of glasswing teachers report improved grades in students
• 80% of glasswing kids improved their self-efficacy*
• 92% of glasswing parents report improved relationships with their children




“glasswing’s support has helped our students improve their
academic performance and their self-esteem. as a result, parents
have taken a more active role in the education and lives of their
children. glasswing is the motor behind the educational and social
development of our school and community.”
claudia cruz,
principal, roberto larios silva public school in san pedro sula,
honduras

in 2015, the president and ministry of education selected the
school as the top example of a public institution in honduras.



* self-efficacy: belief in one’s ability to succeed in specific situations

                                                                                                   11

                                                                   glasswing international    annual report 2015




                                                                                                                     spotlight:
                                                                                                                        mi primer empleo –
                                                                                                                   workforce development
we implemented the ‘mi primer empleo’ program in partnership with
catholic relief services and youthbuild. this program offers a full-time,
five-month intensive life skills and workforce development initiative for
youth between the ages of 17-25 who are neither in school nor employed.
to date, 171 young men and women have graduated from this holistic
program, and transformed their lives. this program has since expanded to
panama and honduras.


impact
• 191 graduates (el salvador and panama)
• 72 participants are employed and integrated in the formal economy
• 32 participants have returned to school




“glasswing has given me and my fellow participants a life-
changing opportunity. we’ve learned that we can achieve whatever
we set out to do.”
jorge claros is a 20-year-old participant who was affiliated with a
transnational gang and struggling with addiction.

today, jorge holds a stable job as an operator at a local factory
and is able to provide for his family.




                                                                                         12

glasswing international    annual report 2015




                                                                                              health



                                                strong and resilient communities require a commitment to quality
                                                healthcare services. through our health initiatives, we provide
                                                ongoing training for doctors, nurses, first responders, and police
                                                to ensure that they have the capacity to manage emergencies and
                                                save lives. we implement the first-of-its kind hospital-based trauma
                                                and violence prevention program in the region. finally, we work
                                                with rural public clinics to ensure that newborns, children, and
                                                women have access to quality maternal-child health services,as
                                                well as providing preventative healthcare at a community level.




                                                16,287
                                                mothers and children treated in 2015

                                                860
                                                trauma care beneficiaries
                                                3,902
                                                e.r. personnel trained




                      13

                                                                       glasswing international    annual report 2015




                                                                                                                       spotlight:
                                                                                                                           girls clubs


our girls clubs are implemented in the poorest urban and rural
communities in el salvador and guatemala. these clubs create safe
spaces for young girls, enabling them to build their life skills and financial
literacy through mentoring and peer collaboration. girls ages 8-18
participate in mentor-led weekly activities that focus on: social and
emotional abilities, girls’ and women’s health, as well as building financial
and vocational capabilities. to date, there are 30 clubs with approximately
700 girls participating in 39 girls clubs in guatemala and el salvador.




impact
• 98% of all girls developed a life plan
• 92% of all girls demonstrated critical financial capabilities
• 65% of all girls generated income and savings




“i never thought i would be able to go back to school. glasswing’s
girls club helped me believe in myself and now i know i can shape
my own future.”
esmeralda vásquez, 18-year-old from san vicente, el salvador.

like 40% of all young girls in the country, she dropped out of
school after sixth grade in order to take care of her younger
brothers and sisters. esmeralda lived with little hope and had
no life goals until she was recruited by glasswing’s staff and
joined the local girls club. since joining, esmeralda has built her
self-esteem, developed financial skills, and learned how to make
artisanal candy. she has even started a small candy business
which has allowed her to generate money to return to school.


                                                                                             14

glasswing international    annual report 2015




                                                community empowerment


                                                empowering communities is best achieved through local
                                                participation. engaging and training volunteers not only
                                                generates economic value, but also important social value.
                                                through our volunteer opportunities, parents, students,
                                                teachers, government officials, corporate employees, among
                                                others, dedicate their time and expertise to the greater good. by
                                                promoting each individual’s potential to make a difference, we
                                                maximize program impact and sustainability.




                                                12,884
                                                volunteers in 2015

                                                75,260
                                                volunteers to date




                      15

                                                                        glasswing international    annual report 2015




spotlight:
glasswing community
volunteer

rocio damian is a 22-year-old girl who grew up in colonia santa faz,
a poor and violent community in guatemala city. in high school, she
participated in usaid’s “a ganar” program, an education initiative
implemented by glasswing and partners of the americas. the program
enabled rocio to develop confidence, learn about leadership, teamwork,
and collaboration.. “it was the first time i really saw the impact you can
have by giving to others,” she said. “it felt great to help.” inspired by the
program’s mentors, today, rocio works as a glee club volunteer in a
glasswing community school in her neighborhood. based on her own
experience, she dedicates her time to teaching kids that they can achieve
anything if they put their minds to it.




                                                                                              16

glasswing international    annual report 2015




                                                               special initiatives




                                                working in some of the most volatile regions in the world means
                                                that unpredictable challenges can arise at any moment. through
                                                our efforts, we maintain a committed and flexible response to
                                                effectively take action during times of crisis.




                      17

                                                                      glasswing international    annual report 2015




spotlight:
migration crisis
in the last eight years, 140,652 minors have fled their home countries of
el salvador, guatemala, and honduras, due to violence, and in search of
opportunities in the united states and mexico. since this humanitarian
crisis started, glasswing provided urgently-needed supplies to migrants
in tapachula, mexico, and has since then, taken action, working weekly
with el salvador’s migration center to provide support to returned
children, youth and families. glasswing also addresses this crisis through
preventative measures, by creating opportunities for children and their
families in their home communities.


impact
• 8,226 children and youth beneficiaries


u.s.a apprehension of unaccompanied children from
the northern triangle of central america




source: unaccompanied children from central america: foreign policy
considerations, congressional research service (2016)
                                                                                            18

                                                                         glasswing international    annual report 2015




our results
glasswing international remains dedicated to delivering the most
impactful and sustainable programs possible. our monitoring &
evaluation (m&e) team is on the ground to extensively assess and track
our progress and impact. we collect measurable data to qualify program
achievements and adapt to reflect new discoveries, feedback, and best
practice methodologies.




what’s changing in our students?
better students, better citizens, better community.

• kids in our programs are more than 3 times less likely to
drop out of school.

• 9 out of 10 kids in our programs improve their school
performance and get along better with their peers.

• 90 youth-at-risk* are formally employed
• 1 in 3 pregnancies in central america is a teenager. in
2015, none of the girls in our girls clubs, aged 13-18 years-
old, became pregnant, and over 65% are generating income



*at risk youth: youth between 17-25 years of age who are neither working nor
studying, with low socio-economic status, and residents of high risk communities



                                                                                               19

                                                                 glasswing international    annual report 2015




we are thankful to all of our partners and
donors for their extraordinary support.




                           glasswing co-founder celina de sola, with 2015 glasswing gala honoree, roberto kriete, co-founder of avianca holdings and volaris.


building strong alliances is key to repairing the torn social fabric in many of our most vulnerable communities.
multi-stakeholder partnerships enable the sharing of knowledge and expertise as well as provide important
financial and human resources. we have established over 100 partnerships with international agencies,
multinational corporations, national and local government entities, and other non-profits by uniting different
stakeholders around common social causes.




our partners                                                                           20

                                                             glasswing international    annual report 2015




founders




ken baker                                 celina de sola                                diego de sola
chief executive officer                   vice president of programs                    president




board of directors                                           ambassadors                                     senior staff
united states             central america                    arturo condo                                    claudia panto                     gabriela garcía
carolina escobar          ken baker                          incae business school, president                regional director of operations   guatemala country director
elizabeth griffin         claudia cruz
rama murali               diego de sola                      roberto kriete                                  natalia salcedo                   patricia lópez
orlando muyshondt         rodrigo escobar                    avianca, board of directors                     regional program director         honduras country director
rodrigo pineda            juan f. salaverría
ricardo a. sagrera        eduardo salazar                    jr martínez                                     carlos aguilar                    mark loyka
zita saurel                                                  actor, motivational speaker, former             nicaragua country director        usa country director
dr. magdalena serpa                                          u.s. army soldier
                                                                                                             lorraine borgonovo                laura sequeira
                                                             fernando palomo                                 panama country director           costa rica country director
                                                             espn, sports commentator




                                                                                   21
                                                                                       our team

                                                  glasswing international    annual report 2015




income 2015                                                                     operation and expenses 2015

                                                                                                              $6,518,197
                                                                                                              programs
  $4,374,469
                                                                                        95%                   $372,075
                                                                                                         5%
                                                                                                              management & fundraising




                   $2,031,075


                                                                                 programs and projects 2015
                                    $464,615
                                                 $179,121                                                     $4,005,496
                                                                                                              education
  corporations   government (usa)     private    individuals
                                    foundation                                                                $612,085
                                                                                                        9%    health
                                                                                        61%
                                                                                                        13%   $849,497
                                                                                                              school infrastructure
total                                                                                             16%
                                                                                                              $1,051,119
$7,049,281                                                                                                    other programs




                           our financials                               22

looking ahead



 we always think about the future and about how
 we can make a bigger difference. we know that
 despite all our efforts, there is still work to be done.
 we want to continue to work with committed
 individuals and institutions to make an impact for
 all those suffering poverty and violence.

 among our many efforts, we will focus on:
 • expanding our community school program
 • increasing the enrollment of youth in our
 workforce development programs
 • scaling our gender and trauma/mental health
 initiatives

                     glasswing international    annual report 2015




the glasswing butterfly is native to central america
and mexico. like the butterfly effect, we believe that
      one small act can achieve great things.




              getinvolved@glasswing.org | www.glasswing.org


                glasswingi           @glasswingint                   @glasswingi

                                           24
