responsible infrastructure
hcc sustainability report 2010-11


                                                               table of contents

company highlights ............................................................................................................................................ 1
about the report................................................................................................................................................. 3
from the chairman and managing director’s desk ....................................................................................... 4
from the president and whole time director’s desk ...................................................................................... 9
organizational profile ....................................................................................................................................... 11
nature of ownership and legal form.............................................................................................................. 14
projects in scope for sustainability report 2010-11 ...................................................................................... 20
vision, mission and values ............................................................................................................................... 21
building our brand ............................................................................................................................................ 22
professional memberships……………………………………………………………………………………………………...…………….23

awards and recognition .................................................................................................................................. 24
stakeholder engagement.................................................................................................................................. 27
material issues identification .......................................................................................................................... 35
corporate governance ..................................................................................................................................... 36
economic performance..................................................................................................................................... 42
environmental performance ............................................................................................................................ 45
water management at hcc: un ceo water mandate cop - 2011 .............................................................. 50
social performance ........................................................................................................................................... 69
employee health and safety ............................................................................................................................ 71
corporate stewardship at hcc......................................................................................................................... 76
innovation .......................................................................................................................................................... 85
sustainable construction research and development .................................................................................. 88
other group companies ................................................................................................................................... 94
disclosures on management approach ........................................................................................................... 98
g3 content index ............................................................................................................................................ 102
independent assurance statement………………………………………………………………………………………………........129



        this report is based on gri g3 guidelines and is a ‘gri checked’ application level ‘a+’ report.

company highlights
hindustan construction company ltd. (hcc) is a leader in engineering and construction,
real estate, infrastructure development and integrated urban development and
management sectors.

founded by visionary industrialist seth walchand hirachand in 1926, hcc is executing
some of india’s most important and challenging infrastructure projects today.

projects across india bear hcc’s hallmark of world-class innovation – from roads and
expressways to tunnels, bridges, dams and barrages.

hcc has created more than 25% of india’s hydro power and over 50% of india’s nuclear
power generation capacity.

hcc is a signatory of the u.n. global compact’s ceo water mandate and is an active
participant in the u.n. global compact (ungc), u.n. leadership development programme
(un-lead) and the teri business council for sustainable development (teri-bcsd).

hcc is an organizational stakeholder of the global reporting initiative (gri) and a member
of the gri’s working group on construction and real estate sector (cress), tasked with
developing sector-specific sustainability reporting guidance.

            hcc ranked india’s 2nd most respected infrastructure company




  in a recent survey conducted by businessworld, hcc was ranked india’s 2nd ‘most
  respected company’ in the infrastructure sector. the award is a measure and
  reflection of the respect and trust earned by hcc from its industry peers.

  this ranking was arrived at by a process (including a peer survey) wherein where only
  senior managers with deep knowledge of their industries (gms, vice-presidents,
  directors) rated firms in their own sector. the key parameters that were considered
  included ethics and transparency, innovativeness, global competitiveness, quality of
  products and services, hr practices, apart from financial performance.

  the rankings were based on a survey conducted by businessworld with delhi-based
  research company ‘ipos indica research’, and covered sectors ranging from it,
  infrastructure, to banking and telecom.



                                                                                          1

performance highlights during 2010-11

· order book at rs. 18,127 crore at the close of 2010-11.

· revenue from operations increased by 7.3% from rs. 3,863 crore in 2009-10 to rs.
  4,144 crore in 2010-11.

· ebitda (before profits from jv and other income) grew by 21.9% from rs. 442.9 crore
  in 2009-10 to rs. 539.8 crore in 2010-11.

· pat (including profit from jvs and other income) decreased by 12.8% from rs. 81.4
  crore in 2009-10 to rs. 71.0 crore in 2010-11.

· roce in 2010-11 was 8.6%; ronw was 4.6%.

· on 1st april, 2010, we extended our internal information technology (it) function to
  form a new company - highbar technologies limited – that is focused on improving it
  utilization in the construction industry.

· we converted our partnership firm vikhroli corporate park into a company called
  vikhroli corporate park pvt. ltd. during the past year. subsequently, we have
  monetized part of this asset.

· the 247 park commercial complex at vikhroli west in mumbai, developed by hcc real
  estate was awarded ‘excellence in commercial segment’ in the ‘safety norms’ category
  by the economic times acetech, and was selected for the royal institute of chartered
  surveyors (rics) – vestian study titled ‘sustainable it workplaces of india’.




                                                                                         2

about the report
responsible infrastructure 2010-11 is hindustan construction company’s (hcc) second
report following up on the activities detailed and commitments laid out in our first report,
and introducing the readers to the new developments at hcc in this past year. we have
continued to adopt the global reporting initiative’s (gri) sustainability reporting guidelines
(g3) and this report is of application level a+. wherever necessary, we have explained the
assumptions and/or exceptions while reporting on the gri indicator protocols.

this report also serves as our 3rd communication on progress (cop) for the un global
compact’s ceo water mandate initiative, for the same reporting period (2010-11).

the report’s primary target audiences are our employees, investors, customers and
suppliers, regulatory authorities as well as individuals and organizations who would be
interested in our triple bottom line performance.

hcc has a robust information management system. most of the data disclosed in the
report are from our regular monitoring reports. in some cases, we have collected
information specifically for the purpose of sustainability reporting.

the scope of reporting of key performance indicators is limited to our engineering &
construction business. further, the number of sites reporting increased to 27, as against
24 last year. we have added three new sites and a few sites from last year’s scope have
not reported as they are being demobilized on account of project completion.

we engaged ernst & young (india) pvt. ltd, an independent and professional services firm,
to provide assurance to this sustainability report. a representative sample of data was
made open for scrutiny and verification for their external assurance team. this has been
done not only to add credibility to our report but also with an objective to strengthen our
approach to sustainability through capacity building of our team.

readers may kindly address their queries or feedback on the content of the report to:

ms. niyati sareen                               mr. aditya patwardhan
general manager                                 manager
corporate social responsibility                 sustainability
niyati.sareen@hccindia.com                      aditya.patwardhan@hccindia.com



all financial values are expressed in terms of indian rupees (“inr” or “rs.”). large numbers
may be expressed in terms called lakhs, crores or millions; these are terms of monetary
value commonly used and accepted in the indian sub-continent.




                                                                                             3

from the chairman and managing director’s desk

               …..continuing our sustained commitment to responsible infrastructure




i am happy and proud to present our second sustainability report that meets the
requirements of the highest reporting application level as per gri g3 guidelines, which is
a+, for the second year in a row. the report reflects the continued progress hcc has made
towards fulfilling its sustainability goals of achieving water neutrality, minimizing
construction waste, zero-reportable injuries for employee health and safety, and promoting
the development of the communities we operate in. highlights of the company’s economic,
environmental and social performance as well as employee engagement and technological
innovations are presented on the following pages. this report (chapter on water on page
49) is intended to also serve the purpose of our communication on progress (cop) for the
un global compact’s ceo water mandate initiative, for the same reporting period. over
the past year, we maintained active participation in global forums such as the world
economic forum, the un global compact, the teri business council of sustainable
development (teri-bcsd), and the cress working group under gri to foster our vision of
a sustainable future achieved through collaboration. our sustainability reporting and other
initiatives are not disparate. they stem from our vision of becoming leaders in
sustainability practice in the engineering & construction community worldwide.


                                                                                           4

macro-economic environment
in terms of the business environment, 2010-11 was a mixed year. while the long-term
signals were largely positive, there were some industry-specific concerns that adversely
affected business. with the global economy recovering from the lows of 2008, we are
seeing positive trends that have led to lower risk perceptions, greater global financial
stability and improved business sentiments. much of the new growth impetus is coming
from the developing and emerging economies, including the indian economy, which is well
on its way to regaining the high growth momentum witnessed immediately prior to the
economic meltdown of 2008. since economic growth and infrastructure development share
a reciprocal relationship, the infrastructure industry in india is poised to grow significantly
in the coming years. however, the commodity price based inflation seen since the
beginning of 2010 has led to a margin squeeze in the indian construction industry since not
all input cost increases can be passed on to the customer. also, an increase in the
benchmark repo rate and subsequent hardening of lending rates across the industry has
resulted in early signs of a slowdown in large investment outlays. with an expected
economic growth and large-scale infrastructural development in india, we look forward to a
good next year for the construction industry.


construction industry landscape
despite high expectations, 2010-11 witnessed a slowdown in the momentum of new
project development in the construction sector on account of fewer new projects and major
implementation issues with ongoing projects. the power sector showed a similar trend,
with low rates of realization on the planned generation capacity. environmental
repercussions of planned hydel power projects and global safety concerns over nuclear
power generation are significant factors currently affecting the development of the power
sector. while some of the factors for this slowdown can be attributed to administrative
issues with the implementation agencies, much of it is related to planning and policy –
especially the critical need to find the right balance between socio-political and economic
factors. serious issues regarding land acquisition, environmental clearances and risk
ownership in public-private partnerships will have to be addressed soon if we wish to see a
sustainable growth in india.




                                                                                                  5

the following sections contain some of my key perspectives on sustainability, corporate
governance, technology and innovation, and corporate social responsibility, that together
will help us achieve our organizational goal of creating responsible infrastructure.


sustainability at hcc
we pride ourselves on being providers of high quality infrastructure that promote economic
growth and improve the quality of life for all the people. we have a long-standing
commitment of creating responsible infrastructure. hence, the core concept of
sustainability, namely holistic growth with a responsibility towards people and the
environment, has easily found a home at hcc. as we continue to innovate and apply next -
gen practices to successfully execute some of the largest and most challenging projects in
the country, we also remain committed to our various social responsibilities. hcc’s
sustainability drive has taken on the form of specific initiatives in different areas. on the
environmental front, we have made progress on minimizing the environmental impact at all
our project sites through reduced material consumption and waste generation. we have
taken concrete steps to precisely measure our water consumption and discharge at our
sites, and are implementing water reuse and recycling techniques that will help us fulfil our
stated goal of zero water discharge. one of our key policy initiatives involves is to
rigorously focus on the safety and health of our employees, and ultimately achieving the
goal of zero reportable injuries across our operations. over the past year, we have
received multiple recognitions for our safety records. our environmental, health and
safety practices go beyond the statutory requirements and form part of our
internationally-certified integrated management systems. we are also working towards
improving awareness of the integrated management systems among our employees. as
part of our social commitment, we are actively engaged in numerous initiatives across our
local communities in the areas of education, healthcare and disaster relief.


corporate governance
our commitment to the principles of transparency, integrity, professionalism and
accountability in all our dealings forms the foundation for our continuous endeavour to
create sustainable value for our stakeholders, including the society at large. in this pursuit,
hcc places highest emphasis on business ethics and corporate governance practices
across all its business activities. these strong governance systems have helped us make

                                                                                                6

progress towards our sustainability goals. our board of directors and management are
playing active roles in fulfilling their obligations and responsibilities. timely disclosures and
transparent business practices have made our governance framework very effective. hcc
has established systems to encourage employee participation in various environmental,
health and safety, and social initiatives. in addition, a number of new programs and
initiatives have been undertaken to effectively engage our internal and external holders
with the goal of making them a part of our sustainability journey.


technology and innovation
in a highly competitive construction market, improving technical and technological
competencies and enhancing efficiency is becoming increasingly important. at hcc, we
firmly believe that technological innovation will not only make us competitive, but also help
us meet our goals of creating responsible infrastructure. we are based in india but we
operate in a manner that is world-class. in that respect, we are a global company. with an
objective of capturing, creating and delivering value, we have developed a strategic plan
for research and development (r&d). in 2010-11, we also created an innovention forum
for collecting and developing new ideas generated within the organization. the program
has witnessed overwhelming participation from our employees. they have submitted ideas
for improving efficiency in ongoing projects as well as novel strategies for energy and
water conservation, and reducing environmental damages. many of these ideas are being
developed in collaboration with the company management and a few have already been
implemented at our sites. to encourage and recognize employee participation, the top
innovative idea generators are rewarded with trophies and cash prizes. through effective
implementation of these strategies, it is our endeavour to achieve excellence in
construction design and solutions. we recognise that innovation is going to be the key
industry differentiator for us going forward and hence we believe it would be material to
our sustainability as a company.


corporate social responsibility
at hcc, our corporate social responsibility (csr) activities build an important bridge
between business operations and social commitments, thereby ultimately helping us focus
on the development of responsible infrastructure. our csr initiatives fall under the five
categories of education, water conservation, disaster response, hiv/aids awareness and

                                                                                                7

community development. further to our ‘re-strategising csr’ initiative in 2009-10, we
continued to contribute to and invest in the communities around our project sites under
each of these categories. as part of our achievements in the workplace intervention
program (wpi) for raising awareness about hiv/aids among our workforce, we made great
inroads in expanding our pool of master trainers and peer educators. with this enhanced
in-house training capacity, we no longer need to rely on outside resources to carry forward
the wpi program. another major csr highlight was the disaster relief and restoration work
undertaken by the employees of two hcc project sites in the immediate aftermath of the
leh flash floods in august 2010. the courageous and earnest service performed by our
employees won an all-round appreciation from the members of local communities as well as
the local administration. this is a reflection of the deep social commitment ingrained in our
organization and in our people. our commitment to the communities around us does not
depend on having a formal policy alone. it is part of the dna of our company that the
personnel at site respond to the needs of the communities around them.


the rest of the report provides highlights of our sustainability initiatives and achievements
in 2010-11. as we move forward in our sustainability journey, we welcome feedback from
you and all our stakeholders.




                                                                                            8

from the president and whole time director’s desk
excerpts from interview with mr. arun v. karambelkar




in the year 2010-11, we made continued and significant progress towards fulfilling hcc’s
top three organizational sustainability commitments – health, safety & environmental
practices, water management, and awareness of workforce. the scope of existing
initiatives was extended to cover more number of project sites and new sustainability
strategies were designed and implemented.

corporate social responsibility and inclusivity of all stakeholders is intrinsic to the way we
do business. society is the biggest stakeholder across our business verticals, especially in
infrastructure projects, and it is our endeavor to create dependable and responsible
infrastructure that excels in aesthetics, engineering quality and being ahead of schedule.
the monumental bandra-worli sea link project in mumbai, inaugurated in june 2009, is
testament to the quality of our work. the road surface is in good condition and has
required negligible maintenance work even after three monsoon seasons.

creation of responsible infrastructure entails responsibility towards people, environment,
investors, employees and clients. a major aspect of this responsibility is providing a safe
work-place environment to our employees who often work at challenging locations. building
upon hcc’s excellent safety track record, we were accorded several recognitions for
various project sites during the past year. among the many proactive measures we have
undertaken to further enhance safety at our project sites are improved workforce
awareness programs and video-based safety trainings. having achieved progress in our
accident statistics, we are in the process of implementing a more stringent severity index,
which will ultimately pave way to a zero-tolerance policy, requiring a total absence of fatal
accidents.

as signatories of the ceo water mandate, we continue to implement solutions and make
progress in addressing the issue of water scarcity. this includes creating better awareness
and installing water flow meters across the project sites for measuring water consumption.

                                                                                                 9

moreover, hcc has adopted specific budget allocation for constructing wastewater
treatment units, water reuse and recycling facilities at all (old and new) project sites. we
are on track to meet our goal of making all our sites zero-water discharge and then moving
towards being a water-positive organization.

sustainability is increasingly playing a major role in how we operate as a business. our
organizational sustainability framework is built around integrated management system
(ims) ‘champions’ at every project site. at each quarterly project managers’ meeting, one
session is dedicated exclusively to planning and reviewing hcc’s sustainability initiatives.
non-financial aspects of our performance are beginning to differentiate us from
competitors while qualifying for global projects and partnerships. looking forward, every
strategic decision we make about entering into new sectors will take into account
sustainability aspects, including the potential impact of planned activities on the natural
environment. over the coming years, we intend to keep building on our current progress
and will strive to achieve the highest global sustainability standards.




                                                                                           10

organizational profile

hcc engineering & construction is a part of the hcc group of companies. the scope of
this report is limited to the engineering & construction (e&c) entity only.

key group companies




 hindustan         hcc                 hcc real estate    lavasa             karl steiner
 construction      infrastructure      ltd.               corporation ltd.   ag
 company ltd.      company ltd.

 engineering &     infrastructure      integrated real    urban              total services
 construction      projects on         estate             development &      contractor
 projects          ppp/bot format      development        management
                                                                             project
 design & build                                                              management
 projects                                                                    services

 epc                                                                         facility
                                                                             management
 lump sum
 turnkey



the e&c business was segmented into the following four vertical systems during the
reporting year. the highlights of each of these verticals are discussed below in brief:

hydro power

· hcc is involved in construction of thirteen hydroelectric projects (hep) – six for nhpc
  and two for private developers.
· the 3 x 110 mw kishanganga hep plant, worth rs. 2,725 crore, is hcc’s largest hep
  and is being implemented as an epc contract. by the end of 2010-11, we had
  commended the most critical activity of tunnel excavation by a sophisticated tunnel
  boring machine.



                                                                                              11

· two other projects are under implementation in bhutan – the 114 mw dagachhu hep
  and the 1,200 mw punatsangchhu i hep. they are expected to gain further momentum
  in the next financial year.
· work on both packages of the teesta hep stage-vi in sikkim i is progressing well.
· in 2010-11, hcc secured contracts for sainj hep and alaknanda hep. sainj is an epc
  contract worth rs. 431 crore for a 100 mw hep for himachal pradesh power
  corporation ltd. (hppcl), and alaknanda is a 300 mw hep worth rs. 660 crore
  promoted by the gmr group.

transportation

· we continue to win accolades for our landmark transportation projects including the
  bandra-worli sea link and the delhi-faridabad elevated expressway (see the awards
  and recognition section of this report).
· during 2010-11, our joint ventures completed two packages of the airport metro
  express line for delhi metro.
· we also completed the main carriageway at all four sections of the lucknow-
  muzaffarpur section of national highway nh-28 as well as the chennai bypass project.
· three packages of the national highway nh-34 aggregating 256 km is being executed
  in full swing on a build operate transfer (bot) basis.
· the project quarry received an award for best mines, best crusher, and best pollution
  control from the director general of mines safety.
· foundation and substructure works are underway on the kolkata elevated corridor
  project, which is a 4.23 km long flyover from park circus to em bypass in kolkata.


water solutions

· we are associated with seven water supply and irrigation projects in andhra pradesh.
· the jcr devedulla godavari lift irrigation scheme is the second largest water scheme
  of its kind in the world and will cater to the irrigation and drinking water needs across
  6.47 lakh acres of land.
· we are engaged in two water supply contracts in mumbai. the first contract involves
  laying a 15.7 km steel pipeline and is near completion. the other envisages construction
  of a 12 km long tunnel about 65 m below ground level. one section of this tunnel is
  complete, while in the second section, 70% of the tunnel boring is complete.
· in 2010-11, we secured an epc contract for construction of a 56 km long section of
  kachchh branch canal for sardar sarovar narmada nigam ltd. the contract value is rs.
  345 crore with a construction period of 24 months.


nuclear power

· in 2010-11, we completed two packages for the 2 x 1000 mw kudankulam nuclear
  power project. these are the first light water nuclear reactors commissioned by the
  nuclear power corporation of india ltd. (npcil), at the southern tip of the country.
· we secured a rs. 888 crore contract for civil works of rajasthan atomic power project
  (rapp) units 7 and 8 from npcil. the execution duration of the contract is 50 months.

                                                                                         12

business lines under e&c:

at the beginning of the financial year 2011-12, we initiated re-orientation of our
organizational structure along specific functional business lines to reinforce enhanced
focus and accountability in various areas of business including execution, business
development, strategy, marketing and sales, and technology. depicted below are the new
business lines along with their targeted niche project areas:




hydro                  water solutions       transportation         nuclear
dams & barrages        storage dams          roads                  nuclear power plants
tunnels                barrages              bridges                utility buildings
powerhouses            bulk water            tunnels                epc
shafts & penstocks     transmission canals   mrts
epc                    tunnels               epc
                       pipelines
                       pumping stations
                       treatment plants
                       epc




industrial             ports & marine        thermal power          hydrocarbons
metals plants          core port             epc of entire plant    refinery & & utilities
industrial complexes   infrastructure –      btg                    petrochemical
factories              berths, jetties,      bop                    complexes
utility buildings      wharfs, quays         coal based pp          gas gathering
metro stations         tanker terminals      gas based pp           stations
epc                    port connectivity –                          terminals
                       road, railway                                offsites & utilities
                       sea links, epc                               epc

                                                                                          13

e&c strategy implementation

our strategy to move from being a construction firm to evolve into an engineering
procurement construction (epc) entity is in response to the industry needs and is in sync
with our growth strategy.

the recent trends of global knowledge transfer, global partnerships, value-driven high
impact projects along with improvements in ‘what if’ virtual design efficiency, delivery
times and efficiency of scale have direct impacts on our business.

our business ecosystem is experiencing shifts – more of our projects are public private
partnerships, and the scale is only growing larger. we see that our customers are moving
towards ‘value’ instead of ‘commodity’. we are increasingly working with our suppliers on a
collaborative mode, borrowing and sharing expertise. our investors are globally influenced
and are mostly image and optics driven. our workforce consists of people of a younger
average age, who are technology savvy and driven by performance.

these shifts in our business ecosystem coupled with the trends impacting our business are
some of the key drivers in our vision to move towards the epcm space. this is what forms
our value strategy.




                              growth strategy




                                                                      value strategy

                  must do                             opportunistic




in order to move into the epcm space, in 2010-11, we developed and implemented the
engineering & construction strategy. herein, we identified the need for development in
seven specific competencies (covered below). while we possess expertise in construction
services across different sectors and have built capacity on the engineering and consulting
front, we intend to increase our scope within construction services to cover mechanical,
piping and electrical works and strengthen our engineering and consulting division while
establishing subsystem procurement and manufacturing and site services. the following
strategic developmental needs were identified to achieve this goal:




                                                                                           14

a. engineering capability
   in order to build our engineering capability, we have identified probable engineering
   partners to form alliances. by riding on the india growth factor as well as our past
   successes and ‘hi-tech’ brand image (with projects such as the bandra worli sea link),
   we have successfully formed engineering, sales and supply chain alliances over three
   years with engineering firms as depicted below:




b. innovation framework
   we have realigned our research & development (r&d) cell so that there is constant
   collaboration between our cell and global r&d hubs, equipment technology
   manufacturers and specialists (such as atlas-copco, jcb, etc), our construction
   material research laboratory, other knowledge management platforms and e-
   communities of interest. participation at these different platforms would allow us to
   stay abreast of current developments and reduce adoption time for new technologies.




   in establishing the innovation framework, we have completed rollout of the following:

   •   innovention process : established overall process and roles based on best
       practices; senior management forum formed and idea collection/ evaluation process
       kicked off across hcc sites and ho; defined mechanism for external idea capture
       and recognition of best ideas
   •   innovention portal: established supporting technology (portal); assisted in portal
       design, vendor selection and portal finalization

                                                                                           15

c. value selling
   we have adopted customer relationship management plans as part of our e&c
   strategy. as a part of this, we now have in focus – ‘key client accounts’. we understand
   different segments have different expectations and needs from our products and have
   accordingly developed understanding of different segment value definitions. we have
   completed the following tasks in implementing ‘value selling’ in our business-
   · end-to-end support on business process definition – including modules such as ‘key
       account management’ (kam), voc, partnership management and mra
   · defined roles and responsibility matrix for key sales processes
   · it vendor selection, and brs handover
   · kam rollout and account plan creation has been completed

d. procurement and contracting
   as a part of our strategy implementation, in order to develop needs in procurement and
   contracting, we have analyzed and recommended final strategy on risk management
   through steel hedging (based on industry best practices). we have completed roll out of
   centralized payment process for 4 raw materials and have enforced tighter process
   controls in payments such as sap based payments.

e. subcontract development
   aspects of subcontracting/outsourcing include wbs and standard packages,
   qualification and standardization, embedded productivity/performance contracts, and
   long-term contracts/asset ownership.

f. world-class project management
   in order to improve our project management skills, we have defined initial scope,
   charter and objectives of sap ps. it has been rolled out in 3 projects in january –
   february 2011. we continue to monitor it weekly to keep the process on track,
   evaluate and improve. we intend to roll it out in all projects soon.

g. employee development and engagement
   this aspect of our strategy implementation is ongoing and is driven by our human
   resources division. we have done the following so far-
   · recruitment and training tracking: tracked recruitment and training process on
      weekly basis for may-july 2011
   · manpower planning tool: developed overall tool design based on best practices,
      assisted in vendor selection and web-based tool development
   · employee engagement: conducted a diagnostic and defined 3-5 key actions (with
      action-plan) to increase employee engagement

   we aim to achieve the following:
      ü drive brand behavior to connect with organization
      ü provide more learning & development opportunities
      ü be recognized as a caring organization
      ü standardize hygiene factors for employees




                                                                                         16

       case study: project implementation system - ‘project tree’
project tree is an hcc initiative that seeks to improve the overall project management
capabilities of the organization and to have better control on the projects. m/s parsons
brinckerhoff, one of the world’s leading project management consultants, was brought to
help us conduct this exercise and to recommend best practices. project tree was first
implemented in november 2009.

five pilot projects were chosen in order to study the systems within hcc – maroshi-ruparel
tunnel, badarpur elevated corridor, kishanganga hydroelectric power project, teesta
hydroelectric power project stage vi lot iv and vishakhapatnam cavern project.

the overall exercise was divided into three phases:

phase i - study of existing practices and systems within the company, establishing the gaps
with respect to the best practices of project management, and identify the systems,
processes and documentation necessary to close these gaps.

phase ii and phase iii - implementation of the accepted systems and processes, closing the
gaps identified previously, and training the employees on the use of tools, methods,
practices, systems and gauge the improvements.

after the study of the head-office and the pilot project sites during phase i, the
consultants identified certain processes and systems to be missing in the organization. the
hcc management agreed to bring in these processes and tools in order to close the gaps.

during phase ii and phase iii, the teams visited the project sites, set up the tools,
processes and systems that were identified, and trained the project teams on the use and
importance of these processes in managing the projects.

at the end of the exercise, certain key documents were developed and submitted to the
management for review and acceptance, and subsequent implementation across the
organization.

the pilot project sites that were part of this exercise are now reaping the benefits of the
implemented project control system through the use of new tools and systems.




                                                                                              17

nature of ownership and legal form

we are a public limited company listed on the bombay stock exchange (bse) and national
stock exchange of india ltd (nse). the global depository shares (gdss) of the company
are listed on the luxembourg stock exchange.

top ten shareholders of the company as on 31st march, 2011

sr.      name of the shareholder               category      no. of shares   percentage of
no.                                                                          shareholding

1        hincon holdings limited               promoter      20,07,03,600    33.09

2        hsbc global investment funds a/c fii                5,01,74,601     8.27
         hsbc global invest funds
         mauritius limited

3        hincon finance limited                promoter      3,83,65,500     6.32

4        copthall mauritius investment         fii           1,48,69,751     2.45
         limited

5        siwa holdings limited                 fii           1,43,65,841     2.37

6        bnp paribas arbitrage                 fii           98,20,000       1.62

7        reliance capital trustee co. ltd. –   mutual fund   81,60,961       1.35
         reliance infrastructure fund

8        life insurance corporation of india   insurance     59,40,480       0.98
                                               company

9        barclays capital mauritius            fii           59,19,800       0.98

10       wellington management company,        fii           51,60,016       0.85
         llp a/c bay pond mb

          total                                              35,34,80,550    58.28




                                                                                        18

india’s firsts: executed by hcc

sr.no. project                           india’s first                 year of completion
1       vizag cavern project,            india’s first strategic oil   (scheduled for
        vishakhapatnam                   reserve                       completion by
                                                                       october 2011)
2       bandra worli sealink, mumbai     india’s first bridge          september 2007
                                         constructed in open sea
                                         conditions.
3       mumbai-pune expressway,          india’s first concrete        march 2002
        section b, maharashtra.          pavement expressway
4       metro railway project,           india's first metro           october 1996
        kolkata                          railway project
5       idukki dam across river          india's first and only        may 1976
        periyar, kerala                  double curvature arch
                                         dam
6       dam across lake vaitarna,        india's first concrete        january 1954
        maharashtra                      gravity dam.
7       rajasthan atomic power           first nuclear power           1971- 1972
        project    (units 1 & 2 )        project
8       bhilai steel plant, madhya       india’s first integrated      1971
        pradesh                          steel plant
9       tata thermal power station       first thermal power           1956
                                         project
10      kadamparai pumped storage        india’s first pumped          september 1988
        hydroelectric project (400       storage project
        mw), tamil nadu
11      yamuna hydroelectric project     india's first underground     march 1975
        (228 mw), uttar pradesh          powerhouse in the
                                         himalayan region
12      maithon hydroelectric project,   india's first underground     october 1956
        bihar (client: damodar valley    powerhouse
        corporation)
13.     bridge across river torsa,       india’s first bridge          1954
        assam
14      haldia , west bengal             fist port - impounded         1967
                                         dock for haldia
15      mgd sewage treatment plant,      india’s first water           1954
        mumbai                           treatment plant
16      sonne barrage, bihar             first barrage                 1966


                                                                                        19

projects in scope for sustainability report 2010-11
hydro power          water solutions        transportation        nuclear and special
projects             projects               projects              projects

nimmo bazgo hep      maroshi ruparel        mughal road project   pot shell
                     tunnel project                               fabrication works
                                                                  for aditya aluminium
                                                                  project

chutak hep           middle vaitarna        as-23 (east west      piling and civil
                     project                corridor) assam       works for aditya
                                                                  smelter project

uri-ii hep lot 1     polavaram right        kolkata elevated      vishakhapatnam
                     main canal             road corridor         rock cavern project
                                            project               for crude oil storage

teesta low dam iv    pumped water           nh 34 package 3       padur rock cavern
hep                  supply scheme                                project for crude oil
                     (nc-25)                                      storage

teesta hep stage                            nh 34 package 4
vi lot ii

teesta hep stage                            nh 34 package 5
vi
lot iv

dagachhu hep

pare hep

kashang hep

punatsangchhu
hep stage 1

kishanganga hep

pirpanjal va

pirpanjal vb


the report contains data on key sustainability performance indicators from the above
sites and has company wide data on economic performance, human resources, policies,
and key initiatives during the reporting period.
                                                                                       20

vision
"to be the industry leader and a market - driven engineering construction company
renowned for excellence, quality, performance and reliability in all types of construction"

the vision statement has been inspired by the global infrastructure development needs of
tomorrow, with the customer as the central focus. it was developed after conducting a
series of in-house workshops. senior leaders within the organization are actively involved
in developing and maintaining an effective and efficient management system to
disseminate the vision across hcc in order to achieve ‘customer delight.’

mission
the hcc corporate mission encompasses the overall strategies, objectives and goals of the
organization-

·   to be a leading construction company in the global market.

·   to become the customers’ most preferred choice by attaining excellence in quality and
    timely completed value added projects.

·   to continually innovate, develop and adopt state-of-the-art technology in methods and
    materials to enhance productivity and cost effectiveness.

·   to continually improve the competence of our people and make them proud to work at
    hcc.

·   to build a safety culture aimed at continually reducing the frequency severity rate
    towards achieving zero accidents.

·   to identify and mitigate all the environmental impacts arising from our activities and
    comply with applicable environmental norms.

·   to develop and adopt eco-friendly concrete technology to reduce one million tons of
    greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions in the next 10 years.

·   to contribute to the development of the local community and society at large as a part
    of our corporate social responsibility.

values
bold, determined, committed and quality conscious at all times - these values are the
driving force behind our organization, defining us and guiding us every step of the way.
quality, for us, is a beacon that inspires us in everything we do, and a facet which is
carefully nurtured at hcc. we believe that our people are our knowledge assets. we adhere
to international standards of governance, and are extremely serious about our corporate
and social responsibilities. our values are representative of who we are and how we
behave. they impact our everyday work life and give us a competitive edge.

                                                                                              21

the hcc brand has come to stand for many admirable qualities:

   ·   breadth of vision by thinking big;
   ·   painstaking attention to detail;
   ·   passion for what we do;
   ·   tirelessly striving to be world-class in our technology and business practices.

our brand image reflects all of these – clean, contemporary, precise and focused. as a
company, the single most important investment we make is protecting and fostering our
brand by applying these values consistently, correctly and single-mindedly.

in a market of accelerating growth in project size, scope, complexity and raised customer
demands for over-delivery on budget and completion dates, our company is a world-class
indian construction group, taking big ideas into action:

ideas with entrepreneurial drive which master challenges, drive project excellence and
continuously contribute to the progress of our company, our industry and the quality of life
in india. ideas which create value for all.

but while we may think and build big, we are obsessed with details in quality, safety and
environment management, wherever we go, in whatever we do.

our world-class people work with passionate commitment to the success of our customers,
partnering to consistently deliver superior quality, innovative solutions and solid returns on
investment.

in 2010-11, we continued with our initiatives to enhance and promote the ‘hcc’ brand and
its associated value. we built our ‘verbal brand driver’, to share with our stakeholders,
standard practices on walking and communicating the power of our brand.”


building our brand
in 2010-11, we continued with our initiatives to enhance and promote the ‘hcc’ brand and
its associated value. our brand had a significant presence in about 15 key business and
industry events and expositions where our wide ranging expertise and experience was
showcased. the inauguration of the second (north) carriageway of the bandra-worli sea
link by prominent personalities once again raised hcc’s brand value in the past year.

our involvement in key projects such as the nh-34 north-south corridor project linking
west bengal to the north-eastern states further established our leadership in the
development of modern infrastructure in india. the laying of this project’s foundation stone
by the union finance minister underlines the importance of the project. the delhi-
faridabad elevated expressway, which has vastly improved connectivity and touched a
chord with local commuters, was inaugurated a month ahead of schedule amidst great
fanfare. likewise, branding around the currently underway kolkata elevated highway
project has created an impressive presence for hcc in the minds of the city’s commuters
as they look forward to the improved commute.

                                                                                            22

during the year 2010-11, we undertook several key initiatives involving investors and
business partners aimed at enhancing their connect with brand hcc. analyst meets were
conducted every quarter and sub-contractor meets initiated in mumbai, delhi and kolkata.

as part of our continued engagement with the brand consultants landor, we are developing
a special brand engagement program which will involve all company staff in taking
ownership of the brand and assimilating brand values.

professional memberships
mr. ajit gulabchand, chairman and managing director of hcc, is a regular participant at
the world economic forum (wef), davos, for almost two decades. he was co-chair of the
wef’s india economic summit, 2010 and has chaired the governor’s steering board of the
engineering & construction community at the wef’s annual meeting 2011 in davos. he is
also the only indian business leader honored to actively participate on panels at the u.n.
annual summit on climate change, as well on the u.n. global compact summit. he is also
an executive committee member of the energy and resources institute (teri) – business
council for sustainable development.

in addition to the above, hcc holds active memberships with several key industry bodies,
as listed below:


 bombay chamber of commerce & industry        indian overseas construction corporation ltd.
 indian chamber of commerce                   icc india
 indo-german chamber of commerce              maharashtra chamber of commerce &
                                              industry & agriculture
 the india automobiles association            indian merchants' chamber of commerce
 maharashtra economic development council     indian water works association
 overseas construction council                indian atomic industrial forum
 nicmar                                       indian road congress
 indian national committee - international    indian committee - national hydroelectric
 chamber of commerce                          power corporation ltd.
 indian council of arbitration                all india association of industries
 confederation of engineering industry        confederation of indian industry
 indo-american chamber of commerce            federation of indian chambers of commerce
                                              and industry (ficci)
 engineering & construction risk institute    world nuclear association
 construction federation of india             construction industry development council
 project exports promotion council of india   national highways builders federation
 the associated chamber of commerce &         central board of irrigation & power
 industry of india (assochem)                 builders association of india




                                                                                           23

awards and recognition
· infrastructure excellence award – 2011 for delhi faridabad elevated expressway
  (dfskywaytm ) by cnbc tv18.

· vishwakarma award for best project – 2011 for delhi faridabad expressway
  (dfskywaytm ) by the construction industry development council (cidc).

· india’s 2nd most respected company in the infrastructure sector – 2011 by
  businessworld.

· infrastructure project of the year for bandra-worli sea link project at property awards
  2010.

· ‘most admired construction companies’ award 2010 at the 8th annual
  construction world awards.




                                                                                       24

our strategic partners



                       design & engineering partners




                           technology partners




    joint venture partners (execution / risk sharing / resource sharing)




                                                                           25

our clients




              26

stakeholder engagement
at hcc, we are committed to engaging in collective action, advocacy and public policy
discussions at the highest level of our management. to this end, mr. ajit gulabchand,
hcc’s chairman and managing director, continued to actively participate in various
thought leadership forums, some of which are listed below:

                                   forum                                        date
summer davos – tianjin, ‘sustainable cities: rethinking urbanization’   september 13-15, 2010
india economic summit, ‘from delhi to davos: the road to inclusive      november 13-15, 2010
growth’, ‘de-stressing urban infrastructure’
city of london and high commission of india conference, ‘financing      november 22, 2010
india’s infrastructure – building partnership with the uk’
president sarkozy’s visit to india, g20 agenda                          december 7, 2010
teri roundtable                                                         january 7, 2011
vibrant gujarat                                                         january 12, 2011
world economic forum annual meeting 2011, ‘leapfrogging to low-         january 26-30, 2011
carbon growth’, ‘catalyzing land use and role of private sector’
delhi sustainable development summit                                    february 2, 2011
chatham house, ‘urban planning for sustainable infrastructure and       february 28, 2011
mobility’
edge conference, ‘education infrastructure’                             march 10, 2011
india today conclave                                                    march 18, 2011

in 2010-11, we continued engaging with various internal and external stakeholder
categories that were identified as most significant to the organization in 2009-10. the
process of identifying our most significant stakeholder categories has largely been internal
so far. we plan to make the existing ways of engagement more robust and with a
sustainability focus. in order of importance and proximity to our day-to-day operations, the
following six categories of stakeholders engaged by us are: customers, suppliers/sub-
contractors, employees, investors and shareholders, jv partners, and local communities.
highlights of various on-going and new engagement initiatives undertaken are presented in
the section below.

            ‘voice of customer’ - customer engagement program

objectives:
·   understanding of customer expectations
·   identifying key areas of concern
·   changes expected in contracting mechanism (scope, packaging, pq etc)
·   willingness of customer (private sector) to pay a premium for concerns addressed
·   develop organization strategy based on customer inputs, successful case studies

methodology:
· one-on-one interactions with 50 prospective and current clients across different sectors




                                                                                              27

                           categories of customers surveyed

                                                                      thermal
                                        2
                                    6           10                    hydro
                                                                      ports
                            7                                         transport
                                                     9                water
                                7                                     metals - steel
                                            9                         developers




key findings/feedback received:
· overall good perception of the hcc brand among our customers
· suggestions on the market positioning and partnerships that hcc may undertake in
  order to improve business performance
· feedback on the organizational culture, challenges being faced in project
  implementation, bandwidth issues
· insight into the future construction needs as well as type of preferences for
  construction services
· we got a good idea of the future business potential and infrastructure development
  activity expected to happen in the next 3-5 years
· customer feedback has been taken into consideration while developing the organization
  strategy for e&c division


                   partnership management – new approach
in 2010-11, we began implementation of a new strategy to manage our joint venture (jv)
partners. the driver for this initiative is the need to develop and maintain stable, sustained
alliances with our partners during all project phases. described below are our major
objectives and salient strategy points:

objective 1: development of a long-term partnering strategy

· forecast partnering requirements from business plan
· finalize strategy based on long-term projected needs and opportunities
· seek alliances well ahead so that business development actions can be taken in unison

objective 2: introduce the concept of ‘partner account management’

· identify list of probable partners who could meet hcc’s partnering needs
· nominate an hcc e&c employee as a single point of contact (partner account manager -
  pam) to maintain clear and constant line of communication


                                                                                            28

· nominate a senior hcc e&c official (sponsor) who has closely dealt with the specific
  partner company in the past and can grow the alliance further

objective 3: build sustainable relationships with partners:

· pam/sponsor to carry and nurture relationship beyond the contract award stage,
  irrespective of a win or loss on a specific project
· during the contract execution stage, the pam/sponsor will strive for continued
  engagement with his/her counterpart in the partner organization to understand any
  issues of “pain-gain” that are likely to adversely affect long-term relations, and take up
  these issues appropriately with the e&c management for resolution
· all things being equal in the selection of bid partners, long-term/strategic partners will
  get a ‘preferred partner’ status and will be extended preferential selection

objective 4: engagement plan to develop long term partners

· procedures to be developed to ensure periodic contact (monthly/quarterly/annual)
  depending on the possible future opportunities of mutual interest
· partner development strategy will also seek to develop multi-sector alignment rather
  than a case-specific opportunistic view
· engagement to focus on better appreciation of mutual requirements/interests. thus
  ensuring a better understanding amongst partners

managing jv partnerships – long term strategy


                                                                    bd group to interface
                                sales heads to send monthly         with sales / pam’s &
   finalise strategic plan.
                                   list of projects needing           provide necessary
   identify partner reqts.
                                allaince reqts to bd group.         assistance for project
                                                                        specific tieups

   business development                                               kpm’s to maintain
   (bd) group to maintain                                                continuous
    indicative database of     bd group to finalise long term
                                 partnership agreements.           communication channels
      proposed partners                                            & serve as feedback loop
                                     debrief verticals

   bd groupl to contact                                              bd group / pam to
    potential partners.                                              monitor operational
   negotiate long term          review committee to decide
                                  on or approve partner               issues in ongoing
      understanding                                                  projects & report to
                                 selection / strategy / plan
                                                                           mgmt.


      bd group to carry             bd group to propose
     out swot analysis                                             bd group to standardise
                                preferential list of partners /    the jv partner selection
         of proposed              relationship development
      partners. suggest                                                 procedures /
                                    plan. identify pam’s           communication systems
     long term strategy



                                                                                              29

               “we are happy to have found a partner which understands
               us as well as we understand them, and with whom we can
               solve all our mutual business issues amicably”

                 - vinci construction grands projects (a hcc jv partner)




             supplier relationship assessment (sra) program
we carried out the second supplier relationship assessment program from september
2010 to december 2010. imrb international (csmm), a 3rd party consulting firm
specializing in stakeholder measurement, was contracted to execute this exercise to
ensure objectivity and anonymity. compared to the first sra program completed in 2009,
a larger number of suppliers (i.e. 225), both included both domestic and international firms,
were included in the survey this time.


objectives of the sra survey

· assess the needs, requirements and expectations that suppliers have from hcc
· determine the relative impacts of each of these expectations on the overall loyalty of
  suppliers
· assess the current satisfaction levels amongst suppliers with regard to hcc
· identify strengths and weaknesses of hcc vis-à-vis competition
· provide strategic direction for improvement in critical areas and identify useful
  opportunities
· tracking of performances over a period of time


                                                                                           30

categories of suppliers surveyed

   category       sample size   %

base:                225        225
subcontractors       106        47%
equipment             59        26%
materials             44        20%
logistics & pol       16         7%

 sub-contracting category        %     sub-contracting category    %

                    base:       105                      base:    105
transport                       31%   hutting                     7%
earthwork                       27%   road marking                7%
fabricator                      19%                               7%
                                      crushing plant operation maintenance
transport earthwork             16%   geo-tech service            6%
piping                          14%   prestressing                6%
hiring                          13%   r.e. wall                   6%
grouting                        11%   marine                      5%
quarry                          10%   structural painting         5%
s.s. fabrication                10%   piling                      4%
tunneling work                  10%   utility                     4%
painting                        9%    canal linink                4%
cd/ earthworks                  8%    em                          3%
earthwork/marine                8%    others                      38%



methodology




                                                                             31

measurement parameters

 contracting/purchase order issuing process

 senior personnel of the procurement team

 managerial personnel of the procurement team

 mobilization at site

 site managers

 technical personnel at the site/ho

 accounts & payments

 relationship building

survey findings

greater positive feedback was received compared to the previous year’s results, indicating
improved satisfactions levels among our suppliers. more than 50% of the respondents
identified hcc as their preferred company.




                                             hindustan
                                            construction
                                           company (hcc)
                                                55%




                                                                               l&t
                         others
                                                                               19%
                          21%



                                      simplex                   gammon india
                                                                   ltd.
                                  infrastructures
                                                    nagarjuna       3%
                                        ltd.
                                         1%            1%
                                                                         (base - 224)




                                                                                        32

snapshot of engagement with key stakeholders

                                                              engagement
stakeholder       purpose of             mode of
                                                              highlights           future plans
category          engagement             engagement
                                                              during 2010-11

customers/        understand             one-on-one           ‘voice of            develop
clients           customer               interactions with    customer’            organizational
(annually for     expectations and       current and          program              business
voice of          identify key areas     potential            (details provided    strategies
customer          of concern             customers            in the               based on
program, one-                                                 stakeholder          customer
on-one                                   customer             engagement           feedback
interactions as                          satisfaction         section of this
needed)                                  surveys              report)


suppliers,        assess the needs,      3rd-party            2nd ‘supplier        based on
sub-              expectations and       administered         relationship         supplier
contractors       satisfactions levels   anonymous            assessment’          feedback,
(annually for     of suppliers           survey of all        (sra) program        adopt
sra program,                             significant          (details provided    strategic
vendor meets      identify strengths     existing suppliers   in the               direction for
as needed)        and weaknesses of                           stakeholder          improvement
                  hcc vis-à-vis          one-on-one           engagement           in critical
                  competition            engagement with      section of this      areas and
                                         suppliers at the     report)              identify useful
                                         project site                              opportunities
                                                              vendor meets
                                         tracking and         were organized       track
                                         refining of sub-     at delhi and         performance
                                         contractor           kolkata              over a period
                                         feedback system                           of time


employees         to meet employee       hcc newsletters      extensive focus      provide
(on-going         expectations,          and ‘e&c             on health,           trauma and
interactions,     encourage              connect’             safety &             emergency
trainings and     employee training      newsletters,         environmental        training to the
communication     and development,       employee             trainings at         workforce
s)                support employee       surveys,             project sites
                  welfare at remote      structured                                improve
                  project locations      performance          in-house survey      employee
                                         management           of employee          welfare at
                                         systems, various     welfare              various project
                                         training under       activities carried   sites
                                         the ‘practical       out in august
                                         learning at your     2010
                                         workplace



                                                                                                     33

investors and   transparently         agms, egms,          regular             increase the
shareholders    communicating the     quarterly            dissemination of    value for
(quarterly      company’s             analysts meets,      the company’s       shareholders
analysts        financial             corporate            financial and       and maintain
meets, on-      information,          website and          performance         high level trust
going           building investor     various              data                among the
communication   trust                 corporate                                shareholders
s)                                    publications         analyst meets


jv partners     develop long-term     appointment of a     new ‘partner        nominate
(on-going       strategic and         single point         management          ‘partner
partner         sustainable           responsibility for   approach’           account
management      partnerships          interfacing /        adopted             managers’ and
approach)       across business       coordinating with    (details provided   ‘sponsors’ to
                domains and           the partners         in the              for enhanced
                geographical                               stakeholder         engagement
                locations             procedures to be     engagement          with partners
                                      developed for        section of this     during the
                create effective      monthly /            report)             contract
                communication         quarterly /                              execution
                channel with          annual meetings                          stage
                partners for          with long term
                positive project      partners,                                build an
                outcomes              depending on the                         internal list of
                                      possible future                          probable local
                identify potential    opportunities of                         and global
                partners for future   mutual interest                          partners that
                project bids to                                                will help hcc
                ensure good lead      hcc newsletter                           win future
                time for              and ‘e&c                                 project bids
                establishing areas    connect’
                of mutual strength    newsletters


local           contribute to the     various              details provided    continuation
community       welfare and           programs and         in the corporate    of proactive
(on-going and   development of        initiatives          stewardship         and need-
need-based      local communities     structured           section of this     based csr
community       by creating           around our five      report.             initiatives
programs and    infrastructure        pillars of csr.                          across all our
initiatives)    around our project                                             local
                sites.                voluntary work                           communities
                                      by hcc
                carry out             employees under
                emergency relief      the disaster
                and rehabilitation    relief network
                work during natural   (drn) activities.
                disasters.


                                                                                                  34

material issues identification
we identified the following four sustainability issues as material to our business in the
previous reporting year (2009-10). in the current reporting year, a structured
brainstorming exercise and scoring of relevant issues within the organization established
the continued materiality of these issues. we have endeavoured to continually refine and
recalibrate our specific goals and actions plans within these material issues, and will
continue to do so in the future.

                                  employee health & safety
goal                 to achieve zero reportable injuries across project sites.

action plan     · we will continue to stress on usage of best safety practices, safe work
                  methods, protection equipment and technology across our project
                  sites.
                ·    we will continue our focus on safety training for all our employees and
                     contract labor across all our project sites.



                             construction waste minimization
goal                 to minimize the generation of construction waste and encourage recycling to
                     reduce landfill.

action plan     · we will adopt the most modern construction techniques in order to reduce
                  waste generation at sites. further we will adopt systems and practices to
                  recycle and reuse the waste generated thereby avoiding its landfill.



                                      pollution and water
goal                to achieve water-neutrality across all our project sites.
                    to reduce project site emissions by 7% on an annual basis.

action plan     · we continue to explore ways of recovering and reclaiming water from waste
                  streams. we plan to achieve the target by introducing water recovery,
                  treatment and reuse systems across all our sites.
                · we will deploy measures to reduce air emissions at our project sites. further
                  we will continually assess the ambient air quality at our sites to track progress.



                                   community development
goal                to ensure proactive participation in community development on issues of health,
                    education and water.

action plan     ·    we have devised a strategy for community development, making it more
                     focused and need-based to address the issues of the concerned community.



                                                                                                 35

corporate governance
our commitment to the principles of transparency, integrity, professionalism and
accountability in all our dealings is the foundation of our continuous endeavor to create
sustainable value for all our stakeholders including the society at large. we place highest
emphasis on business ethics and have adopted high standards of corporate governance
practices across all business activities. these strong governance systems have helped us
promote an industry-wide initiative of developing ‘responsible infrastructure’.

corporate governance at hcc is an ongoing process and we continuously strive to improve
upon our practices in line with changing demands of the business environment. these
governance structures are the foundation that provides adequate empowerment across the
organization in leveraging opportunities for rapid sustainable growth.

we have established systems to encourage and recognize employee participation in
environmental and social initiatives that contribute to environmental sustainability and
promotion of safety and health, which are an integral part of our business model.

board of directors
the board plays an active role in fulfilling its fiduciary obligations to the shareholders of
the company by efficiently overseeing management functions to ensure their effectiveness
in delivering shareholder value.

as on 31st march, 2011, the hcc board comprised of ten directors – one executive
director and nine non-executive directors. the executive chairman and managing director
is the promoter director of the company. of the nine non-executive directors, seven are
independent directors. except the chairman and managing director, all directors are liable
to retire by rotation. all the directors possess the requisite qualifications and experience
that enables them to contribute effectively in their capacity as directors of the company.

 name                                                           position
 ajit gulabchand                                                promoter, chairman and managing director
 y. h. malegam                                                  independent director
 k. g. tendulkar                                                non-executive director
 rajas r. doshi                                                 independent director
 d. m. popat                                                    independent director
 ram p. gandhi                                                  independent director
 prof. fred moavenzadeh                                         non-executive director
 sharad m. kulkarni                                             independent director
 nirmal p. bhogilal                                             independent director
 anil c. singhvi                                                independent director
 arun v. karambelkar*                                           president & whole-time director
*was appointed by the board as president and whole-time director w.e.f. 29th april, 2011 for a period of 5 years.


                                                                                                                    36

code of conduct

good governance and ethical business practices are more important now than ever. we
have always strived to embed our core values1 into everyday decision making processes
and this philosophy is further strengthened by adoption of a ‘code of conduct’. there are
two separate categories of ‘codes of conduct’ – one for the non-executive directors and
the other for the executive directors and the designated employees in the senior
management2. the code is intended to serve as a guiding principle for senior management
who affirm compliance with this code on an annual basis as at the end of each financial
year. the code of conduct for executive and non-executive directors clearly defines
processes in place to avoid conflicts of interest.

the code of conduct is handed over and explained to all the designated employees in the
senior management during induction. the company has also instituted a comprehensive
code of conduct for prevention of insider trading, for its directors and designated
employees. it deals with the treatment of insider information, is available to all the
designated employees of the company. it clearly mentions that, “all directors/members of
senior management/designated employees shall comply with insider trading regulations
issued by the securities and exchange board of india and the insider trading code issued
by the company as may be applicable to them.

further, the code of conduct for senior management also provides that they and their
immediate family members should not accept any gift, gratuity, fee or other benefits of any
kind from suppliers, customers, competitors and related business parties if it is known,
believed or suspected that its purpose is to influence a transaction and/or if the value such
an item is significant and/or might cause embarrassment to the company.

for the purpose of the code, the company has appointed the company secretary as the
compliance officer, who shall be available to the senior management to answer their
queries and to help them comply with the code.”

we support the un global compact and the tenth, anti-corruption principle thereof.

board meetings / board level committees

all major decisions, material issues, investment and capital expenditure related issues go
through the approval of the board and information like fatal or serious accidents,
dangerous occurrences, major effluent or pollution related problems, labour and industrial
relations related issues are regularly brought to the notice of the board as part of various
board meetings. the board met five times during the year 2010-11. the maximum time
gap between any two consecutive meetings did not exceed four months. the board
periodically reviews compliance reports of all laws applicable to the company, prepared by
the company as well as steps taken by the company to rectify instances of non-
compliances, if any.



1
    hcc’s mission and vision are available on the website of the company www.hccindia.com
2
    copies of both the codes of conduct are available on the website of the company www.hccindia.com

                                                                                                       37

we strictly adhere to section 299 of the companies act, 1956, under which every director
of a company who is in any way concerned or interested in a contract or arrangement, is
required to disclose the nature of his concern or interest at a meeting of the board of
directors. a general notice is given once in a year to the board by a director to the effect
that he is a director or a member of a specified body corporate or is a member of a
specified firm and is to be regarded as concerned or interested in any contract or
arrangement which may, after the date of the notice, be entered into with that body
corporate or firm.

we have instituted mechanisms to inform our board members about initiatives for risk
assessment and minimization as well as a periodic review that would strengthen our risk
governance. our framework facilitates building an early-stage understanding of the
exposure to various risks and uncertainties, leading to timely response and effective
mitigation.

the board has also constituted five board committees – audit committee, remuneration
committee, shareholders’/investors’ grievance committee, esop compensation
committee and selection committee of the board.

audit committee:

the audit committee oversees the company’s financial reporting process and disclosure of
its financial information to ensure that the financial statements are correct, sufficient and
credible. apart from this, it also reviews with the management, the annual financial
statements before submission to the board, performance of statutory and internal auditors
and adequacy of the internal control systems, and deals with various other matters as
prescribed under the listing agreement with the stock exchanges.

remuneration committee:

the remuneration committee is responsible to recommend to the board the compensation
package for the whole-time directors including managing director of the company. the
committee also recommends the remuneration payable to the non-executive directors of
the company.

shareholders / investor grievance committee:


the committee monitors redressal of queries/complaints received from shareholders
relating to transfers, non-receipt of annual report, dividend etc.

esop compensation committee:

the esop compensation committee deals with various matters related to administration
of the hcc employee stock option scheme such as the number of options to be granted,
the exercise period within which the employee should exercise the options, the conditions
under which option vested in the employees may lapse and other related issues / matters.



                                                                                           38

selection committee:

the selection committee of the board deals with matters concerning the appointment and
remuneration of director’s relatives in respect of holding office or place of profit in the
company.

corporate policies and management systems

the hcc management has established quality, environmental and safety policies
consistent with the hcc mission. these policies, outlined in the hcc management system
manual, meet all the specific requirements of iso 9001: 2008 quality management
system, iso 14001: 2004 environmental management system and ohsas 18001: 2007
occupational health & safety management system. the management system applies to
the areas of project management, engineering and design, research and development,
procurement, and construction, operation and maintenance of projects. it is applicable to
all our head office, workshop-r&d-training center in panvel, and all project sites.

during november-december 2010, m/s tuv nord, the certifying agency, conducted a
recertification audit for the all the above three management systems to verify the status of
compliance to the requirements of these standards. the objective and effectiveness of
integrated management system was verified during this audit course. the certifications
are valid up to march 2014.

these policies are intended to direct and control hcc towards enhancing quality of its
products and services, and achieving excellence in health, safety and environmental
performance. quality, environmental and occupational, health and safety policies are
displayed at and communicated to all of hcc’s operational areas and also made available to
the interested parties. established policies are reviewed periodically in the management
review meeting for its continuing suitability.

we have adopted an integrated approach towards quality, environment and safety, and
have integrated these in business practices, to inculcate a culture of continuous
improvement that will enhance quality of the products and maintain the highest standards
of environmental protection and safety of the project teams to maximize customer
satisfaction.




                                                                                          39

risk management

in july 2010, hcc implemented a new procedure on risk assessment applicable to the
entirety of e&c business. it reflects our commitment to high standards of business conduct
and good risk management. the new procedure is intended to ensure that an effective risk
management framework is established and implemented within the e&c business and to
provide regular reports on the performance of that framework to the risk management /
audit committee and board of directors of the company.

the scope of the new procedure includes the identification and management of existing and
new risks in a planned manner with minimum disruption and cost. if also focuses on
developing a “risk” culture that encourages all staff to identify risks and associated
opportunities and to respond to them effectively. the procedure establishes clear
responsibilities and authorities in the organization’s risk management process – the
president e&c has overall responsibility while the responsibility for implementation lies
with the e&c management team.

the process for risk management incorporates a systematic application of policies,
procedures and checks to identify potential risks and lessen their impact on e&c business.
this involves: identifying potential risks; assessing their potential impact on the business
and/or on hcc group; taking timely action to minimize the potential impact; and,
monitoring and reporting on the status of key risks on a regular basis.

the risk management is structured at the two levels of enterprise risk management and
project risk management. at the project site level, the hse department adopts the hazard
identification, risk assessment and control (hirac) methodology for various activities
during the construction phase of the projects. it helps control risks related to health and



                                                                                           40

safety in addition to enforcement of strict adherence to quality standards and procedures
so as to keep risk at the lowest level and ensure the safety of the construction site.
in another significant development, mr. stuart aitken - chief business development
officer, hcc ltd., has been elected to serve as a director of the engineering &
construction risk institute (ecri). ecri is an international risk management and
consulting forum that helps the global e&c industry to establish, maintain and improve
their project risk management capabilities and to develop and share best practices. ecri
has its headquarters at connecticut, usa, with operations in uk, europe, africa, far-east
and india. it was formed in 2005 at the world economic forum meeting in davos by 17
leading e&c firms across the world. hcc was one of the founding members of ecri.




            mr. stuart aitken – chief business development officer, hcc ltd.

as director, mr. aitken will be responsible for reviewing emerging developments within the
ecri, monitor the performance of the managing director and ceo, review the annual
budget and financial report, and ensure compliance to the organization’s charter, bylaws
and board-approved policies. mr. aitken’s tenure commenced in june 1, 2011 and will
extend up to may 31, 2013.




                                                                                        41

economic performance
hcc entered the year 2010-11 with a healthy order book, and during the year, we
efficiently executed these orders more or less as per schedule. given the damp market
conditions, the executed orders could not be fully replenished with new orders and the
order book reduced a little to rs. 18,127 at the close of 2010-11. the order backlog is well
distributed across various sectors including power, transport, water and industrial.

our turnover improved by 7.3% to rs. 4,144 crore in 2010-11. with the second half of
2009-10 witnessing an increase in activity, one had expected 2010-11 to be a better year
for execution but as the year progressed, some serious issues regarding land acquisition
and environment clearances derailed the anticipated growth. however, the group turnover
crossed rs. 7,000 crore post-acquisition of karl steiner ag, switzerland. operating
(ebitda) margins increased to 13.2% from 12.2%.

while we continued top-line growth in line with the project execution schedule for the year,
it is commendable that this was achieved by maintaining ebitda margins in an inflationary
environment, through a judicious mix of projects and effective monitoring of operational
costs across projects.

interest costs on the other hand have been high, largely due to an increase in working
capital requirements given the delays in payments and settlement of claims by some
clients as well as increase in interest rates caused by rbi policies. this impacted the
bottom line. to an extent, the company has controlled capital requirements by increasing
subcontracting activities across its different projects.

economic value generated & distributed       fy 2009-10              fy 2010-11
(evg&d)                                      (million inr)           (million inr)

economic value generated                       36422.2                 40931.70

economic value distributed                     34752.6                 39126.10

operating costs                                28050.1                 30857.60

employee benefits and wages                    3943.5                  4676.40

payment to providers of capital                2294.1                  3141.60

payment to governments (indian)                445.2                   446.10

community investments                          19.7                    4.40

economic value retained                        1669.6                  1805.60


we received financial assistance from export credit agencies to the tune of 124.91 million
inr.

                                                                                          42

the order backlogs for our five business verticals are presented in the table below. hydro
continued to remain the dominant sector in the financial year 2010-11.

 vertical                    opening order backlog      closing order backlog     growth
                             (1st april 2010)           (31st march 2010)
 hydro                       8130                       7694                      -5%
 water                       4043                       3673                      -9%
 transportation              5136                       3933                      -23%
 nuclear and special         1501                       2827                      88%
 projects
 total                       18,810                     18,127                    -4%

the share price performance of hcc and a few comparable construction industry players
from march 31, 2010 to march 31, 2011 on the bombay stock exchange is shown below:




                  market capitalization of hcc vis-à-vis industry players


suppliers

we have stringent policies and practices governing suppliers and transporters’ registration,
evaluation and selection. we also practice periodic evaluation of their performance. the
evaluation has clauses of cost effectiveness, health and safety practices and compliances,
amongst others. we strongly prefer procurement of materials required at the project sites
from locations in proximity. not only will this create opportunities for livelihood during the
project duration, but will also help the local suppliers to upgrade and maintain quality of
products to cater to hcc’s quality standards.


                                                                                             43

while we continue to define all procurements within india as local, hcc makes every
attempt at procuring most materials from in and around the project sites to reduce
complexity of logistics barring some standard raw materials, which are procured centrally.
our top 10 significant suppliers in terms of their monetary value are all locally based and
account for as much as 41.12% of the total supplier costs.


   case study: monetary savings & resource conservation through
                      procurement changes
procurement of construction material accounts for as much as 40% of hcc’s total
expenses. it thus becomes imperative to conserve and use these resources optimally, as
they bear a cost implication on our business. in 2010-11, we undertook the following
initiatives to conserve resources and minimize waste, leading to significant cost savings of
more than rs. 55 lakhs at the maroshi ruparel tunnel project and more than rs. 45 lakhs
at teesta hydroelectric power project lot iv.

1. procuring steel to custom specifications directly from vendor:
steel rebars, a necessary resource in our business, is available in the market in random
lengths between 10 to 12 meters. we often have to convert them into specific lengths &
shapes per our requirements. the cutting and bending is done at our project sites. for
large scale infrastructure projects, these modifications at the field result in a substantial
waste of resources. to avoid this, we partnered with tata steel, one of our key steel
suppliers, to directly procure rebars of custom lengths and sizes. this requires us to plan
our material needs ahead of time to give sufficient lead time to our suppliers. this
cooperation has worked successfully, especially in our maroshi tunnel project – where we
had to use many 12.5 m long rebars to make steel rings. use of fixed length rebars led to
zero wastage at this site. we have also achieved significant reduction in wastage at our
badarpur flyover project by using fixed length rebars.

2. controlling rolling margins:
we worked with our suppliers to procure steel rebars with controlled rolling margin
(tolerance) in order to conserve amount of steel used but remained within critical
standards and quality levels required.

3. material reconciliation:
it used to be a practice across our sites to order fuel as and when required directly by our
appointed project site authorities. fuel being a non renewable, fast depleting resource, we
have begun streamlining and optimizing its consumption. now, all orders are required to be
placed through the head office. we have also placed a cap of rs. 5000 for any emergency
direct on-site fuel purchase. during project planning, specific budgets are allocated for
each type of materials. in the past year, we strongly pushed our site teams to use lesser
than the allocated budget for hsd. many of our sites have managed to keep their spending
on hsd well below the budget, owing to enhanced awareness and strict monitoring of
consumption patterns.

we intend to extend this material reconciliation targets to other major construction
materials at all sites. by creating a core team to monitor the site performance on these
parameters, we will continue to aggressively implement our waste minimization initiatives
across our projects.

                                                                                                44

environmental performance

environmental policy

it is our environmental policy to manage our project activities/products/services in an
environmentally responsible and lawful manner, so that their environmental impacts are
reduced to a practicable minimum and that there is continual improvement in our
environmental performance.




scope and comparison

while we have introduced the scope for this report, we will discuss some other aspects of
our scope impacting the comparison of the environmental performance parameters herein.

under the hydro-power vertical last year we had 11 projects compared to the 13 this year.
3 new sites – punatsangchchu, dagachhu and pare - have started to report on their
sustainability performance in addition to full-fledged reporting from our kishanganga site
which started only last year. our project at chamera has been demobilized and hence is not
in scope this year.

in our transport vertical, 4 new projects have been brought under the sustainability
umbrella – nh 34 package 3, 4 and 5, along with the kolkata elevated corridor project. the
chennai by-pass project, badarpur elevated corridor project and nh -28 packages 1, 2, 3
and 4 are not in scope this year, as these projects have begun to demobilize.

                                                                                          45

in the water vertical, ghodazari site from last year is nearing completion and has not
reported this year. pws nc-25 has been added to scope.

the nuclear & special project vertical has grown in scope by introducing three new sites as
a part of this report – aditya potshell (civil works and fabrication works) and padur rock
cavern project have been added.

this change in scope itself makes comparison of the data from last year to this difficult as
we have reported vertical wise and not project wise on many indicators. further, our
projects have different requirements in each of their phases, in terms of materials required
or power consumption, making comparison invalid between two different phases. thus, we
here present our performance on the environmental indicators, with this disclaimer, for the
period 2010-11.


material consumption and reuse

the following table gives a glimpse of amount of materials consumed at our sites for the
year 2010-11.

            source            unit       2009-10      2010-11        recycled
                                                                     materials
                                                                     (2010-11)

                              tons       1200887      794848.79      96581
            raw materials
                              cu. m.     1737992      3102384.61

                              tons       4267427      3573852.04     116230
            semi
            manufactured      cu. m.     645689       601604.24
            goods
                              sq. m.     133358       39048

            associated        tons       14418.43                    52.5
            materials

            total materials in tons      5482732      4368701        212863.5




energy consumption

in 2010-11, we used 8472 million litres of diesel, and 12.18 million litres of aviation
turbine fuel (atf). we require atf for high altitude operations as it is a suitable fuel for low
temperature zones. our cumulative electricity consumption at all project sites within scope
was 25.6 million kwh.


                                                                                             46

due to direct energy consumption, our total greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions stood at
21.55 million tons of co2 e. the figure below represents a comparison of ghg emissions of
hcc for this year and the last. the total ghg emissions from indirect energy consumption,
i.e., electricity purchased (from non-renewable sources) were 20,727 tons co2 e.



           25
                                      million tons of co2 e
           20
           15
           10
            5
            0
                          2009-10                             2010-11

                                      ghg emissions

many of our sites have adopted different methods of energy conservation:

· from energy savings due to process re-design:
  uri site saved 4,35,751 kwh by replacing higher capacity compressor with smaller
  capacity compressor for the gantry vibrator operation on site.

  fuel of 809 l was saved by replacement of 500kva dg by 125kva dg for domestic use
  during non commercial uses.

· savings due to conversion and retrofitting of equipment:
  the conversion from halogen lamps to high pressure sodium vapour (hpsv) lamps
  resulted in huge savings of 1,12,050 kwh at the aap fabrication site and 1,24,150 kwh
  at the civil works site.

  at the assam road project, by fixing the apfc panel power factor, we achieved a rebate
  of 1-2% in energy consumption amounting to as much as 2721 kwh.

  aap civil works site started used of 2 phase ac arc welding machine in lieu of motor-
  generator dc arc welding machine accruing savings of 51,236 kwh. further, this site
  also made changes to the sloping belt system for transport of batch aggregates so that
  it would come to a halt immediately instead of the one minute it used to take before.
  this has resulted in 5,571 kwh of savings. by replacing 7.5 kw sump pump with an over
  head water tank, this site further saved 15,936 kwh.

· changes in employee behavior
  the assam road project team educated all people on site to put off geysers & lights
  before leaving the rooms or when not in use, subsequently reducing power consumption
  by 38,880 kwh.
  chutak project practiced switching off dg sets for fixed low utility hours at the officer
  and worker camps saving 18,209 kwh of power consumption.

                                                                                         47

summary of energy conservation measures and resulting savings:
 energy savings due to process re-design                       4,35,751 kwh
                                                               809 l diesel
 savings due to conversion and retrofitting of equipment       3,31,664 kwh
 changes in employee behavior                                  57,089 kwh

in 2010-11, our environmental expenditures were to the tune of inr 34.07 million. the
following table gives a break up according to the different categories and verticals.

environmental expenditures (in million inr) by category vertical-wise:
 category                hydro nuclear transport water              total        grand
                                                                                 total
 waste disposal,             2.76     0.50      0.37         0.30      3.93
 emissions treatment and
 statutory
 consents/license costs                                                          34.07
 prevention and              25.38    0.66      3.28         0.24      29.56
 environmental
 management costs

in addition, we incurred an expenditure of rs. 40 million for salaries for health, safety and
environmental (hse) engineers and personnel responsible for general environmental
management activities across our sites and corporate head office.

waste
below is the summary of waste generated across all sites within our scope during 2010-11:

      hazardous waste                weight /                   disposal method
         generated                   quantity       onsite storage and sold to contractor
                                                      direct disposal         / recycler
 batteries                      159 nos.            90 nos.               69 nos.
 non-refillable containers      4674 nos.           729 nos.               3434 nos.
 used oil filters               2414 nos.           --                     490 nos.
 oil soaked cotton              831 kg              --                     --
 used oil                       48.8 kl             4. 05 kl               15.3 kl
 non hazardous waste            weight /            onsite storage and     sold to contractor
 generated                      quantity            direct disposal        / recycler
 used tires                     2896 nos.           56 nos.                968 nos.
 empty cement bags              936029 nos.         57583 nos.             303550 nos.
 steel scrap                    2290.1 tons         --                     1086 tons
 used spares                    3039.1 tons         --                     3001.7 tons

total reported non-hazardous waste disposal was 4087.7 tons through contractors/
recyclers. other wastes (which include tyres, cement bags, batteries etc.) which are
disposed off through waste disposal contractors or stored onsite until responsible disposal,
are not reportable in tonnes as they are counted as numbers, or measured as volumes. we
comply with all relevant regulations with respect to waste disposal, and the actual quantity
disposed is tracked regularly in our systems.

                                                                                            48

case study: environmental issues and remedial actions taken at the
         punatsangchhu-i hydro electric project (bhutan)
we won the rs. 688.06 crore order for package mc3 of 120mw punatsangchhu-i hydro
electric project located in 2009. the project site is located on the punatsangchhu river in
wangdue phodrang dzongkhag in western bhutan.

the project involves the construction of a head race tunnel (from surge shaft end), surge
shaft, butterfly valve chamber, pressure shafts, power house and a tail race tunnel,
including the hydro-mechanical works. the project is proposed to be completed in 66
months.

the following table shows some of the environmental issues encountered at the
punatsangchhu project site in 2010-11, and the remedial actions undertaken to
successfully overcome these problems;


                issues at punatsangchchu site and remedial actions taken:

       issues                            action and status
       mucks entering the river stream   we relocated the dumping site thereby,
       as they were disposed on the      eliminating possibility of it entering the river
       riverside
       no barricade on the surge shaft   we completed barricading the yard and
       top dumping yard causing mucks    allocated a separate zone for mucks disposal
       to fall over the bvc tunnel
       no arrest barrier on upper        we built an arrest barrier and have already
       portion of trt for disposal of    allocated a separate zone as disposal area.
       mucks – affecting downstream
       and environment
       electrical line passes through    we rerouted the transmission line on
       near bhu – it falls within the    consultation with bpc.
       mucks falling zone
       storage of hazardous and non      now, we have allocated specific rooms and
       biodegradable products at store   dustbins for these discarded items and arranged
       without proper arrangement.       for collection of hazardous and non-
                                         biodegradable wastes




                                                                                            49

water management at hcc: un ceo water mandate cop - 2011

the concept of sustainability, which has so far been used to focus only on environmental
issues, can only work effectively if developmental and societal issues such as poverty
reduction, sustainable agriculture, and comprehensive water management are taken into
account.

water is an important environmental and developmental area of concern. at hcc, we have
begun recycling water and now use 30 per cent less water than before at our construction
sites. we have gained a lot in this process – despite the recent drought in andhra pradesh
which put a stop in the construction activity around the state, we were able to continue our
construction because we were recycling water.

we believe water supply in india is in imminent danger; however this shortage can be
effectively addressed by recycling industrial water and a good part of our personal-use
water. this would require large-scale investment in water recycling and reuse
implementation. so, infrastructure is not only in conflict with environment, part of it is
actually environment protecting and enhancing.

water initiatives undertaken by us as part of the un ceo water mandate essentially reflect
hcc’s commitment towards water resource management. we strive for and will continue to
pursue the development of sustainable infrastructure by adopting sustainable water
resource management approaches at our construction sites and by advocating the same to
our peer industry group, people and communities in hcc’s sphere of influence at local,
national and global levels.

yours sincerely,

ajit gulabchand
chairman & managing director

introduction
with unprecedented increases in urban populations, constrained water supplies, energy
shifts to mitigate climate change, and vulnerability to disasters, communities worldwide
are seeking more sustainable infrastructures that are resilient, high-performing, resource-
efficient, cost-effective and environment-friendly. in order to create an enabling
environment, there is need for coordinated effort from all the stakeholders in general, and
corporate players engaged in developing infrastructure in particular.

hcc, an integrated group spanning engineering & construction, real estate, infrastructure
and urban development & management, recognizes the correlation of business
sustainability with water resource and is committed to reducing the amount of water used
across our construction project sites.

as the first indian company to endorse united nations global compact’s ceo water
mandate, we make it a point to embed the principles of water resource management in our
work. as a responsible corporate steward, we have always motivated other companies to

                                                                                             50

join this initiative by presenting best practices of water stewardship at hcc at various
local, regional, national, and international conferences and symposia. such moves are
crucial in bringing about inclusive development for the nation and for the development of
sustainable infrastructure.

this chapter describes the efforts we undertook in the past one year to maintain and
improve our group wide water consciousness as well as implementation of the 4r water
principles (reduce, recycle, reuse, and recharge) at all our direct operations and beyond.
besides, efforts have also been made to highlight hcc’s engagement with various
organizations dealing with issues related to water. each section of this chapter outlines
activities / efforts undertaken by us in implementing the six key elements of the ceo water
mandate: direct operations, supply chain and watershed management, collective action,
public policy, community engagement and transparency.


direct operations
considering the significance of water management at our projects sites, hcc has
internalized a process for implementing the six key areas of action under the aegis of the
ceo water mandate. the implementation process was thoroughly described in hcc’s first
communication on progress (cop-water) in 2009. the specific elements of this process
are listed below:

·   hcc’s un water mandate team & communication mechanisms: the team comprises
    of water experts and practitioners based at hcc’s head office in mumbai, who
    communicates with the project sites through a nodal officer (“water champion”)
    designated at each site.

·   implementation process: the implementation process includes visit of un water
    mandate team member(s) to project sites for assessment of ground situation, techno-
    economic and social assessment for the implementation of identified water
    interventions, costing of the feasible interventions, and development of detailed
    proposal for water intervention activities at the sites in consultation with respective
    project managers and the respective water champion. each feasible proposal has a
    specific deadline for its execution at the project site. the implementation process is
    schematically described in the diagram below.

·   methodology & tools: a set of resource documents are created to serve as
    implementation tools. these have been found effective for increased standardization
    and systematic performance management.

·   monitoring water related activities on site and internal accountability mechanisms:
    commitment for implementation from project managers and monthly progress reports
    from each project sites enables our un water mandate team at mumbai head office to
    keep track of all the interventions being undertaken and their performance against
    anticipated outcomes.

details of this implementation process can be found in hcc’s cop-water of 2009.

                                                                                              51

              schematic representation of the implementation process of
                          the ceo water mandate at hcc


water intake by source

water meters have been installed on all our operating sites. our total water consumption
for the financial year 2010-11 stands at 1.78 million m3 including groundwater, surface
water, rainwater, water from municipalities and water tankers. we recycled 374372 m3 of
water, which is 21 per cent of all water consumed, across all our project sites.




                                                                                       52

                             154703 202493

                                                                 water from municipality
                580945
                                                                 surface water
                                              841127
                                                                 ground water
                                                                 water from tanker




                      water withdrawal in m3 (fy:2010-2011)


snapshots of water interventions at our project sites

during the past year, our un water mandate team visited several construction sites across
india and abroad to implement technically and socio-economically feasible proposals for
reduction, recycle, reuse, and recharge of water. efforts were also made to evaluate the
performance of water interventions proposed earlier.

out of several water interventions proposed and implemented at our construction projects,
we present the following two illustrate the progress we have made on our ceo water
mandate commitment:

              case study: water conservation and reuse at the
                           padur cavern project
the padur cavern site is a prestigious contract work from indian strategic petroleum
reserves limited (isprl) to construct a strategic crude oil storage cavern at padur,
karnataka. the work includes construction of underground rock caverns (part a) to store
1.25 million tons crude oil. the sub activities include detailed engineering and design,
underground excavation, access tunnels, water curtain galleries, main storage cavern,
shafts and associated underground civil works including geological mapping. the main
activity of tunnelling requires high quantities of water for bore-hole pressurization, drilling,
dust suppression during mucking, curing and rock-bolt grouting.

our vizag cavern project at vishakhapatnam, andhra pradesh, which has similar features
as the padur site, served as a good example of implementation of wastewater treatment
and reuse (details of vizag cavern project water interventions can be found in hcc’s cop-
water for 2009 and 2010). motivated from the vizag cavern success story, we installed a
tailor-made wastewater treatment plant of 1 mld capacity to treat the wastewater to
reusable parameters and recycled it for the tunnelling activities.


                                                                                              53

apart from the wastewater treatment, our un water mandate team explored the rain water
harvesting potential at the site and suggested a proposal to recharge the bore-well located
at the worker’s camp by roof-top rain water harvesting systems.




recycling of tunnel wastewater for tunnel construction activities by introducing wwtp

as of august 2011, the aforementioned tunnelling activity is in its primary stage, therefore
the water consumption and corresponding wastewater generation is relatively very low
(0.2mld) when compared to designed capacity of the wastewater treatment plant (1mld).
the treated water is currently being used for tunnelling activity as well as for dust
suppression. the water consumption for tunnelling activities is however expected to reach
1 mld/day as the project progresses.

this water intervention assists the hcc’s project site at padur in:
       · minimize dependency for water on external sources,
       · save costs expected to be incurred for the procurement of water, and
       · save huge quantity of fresh water for the neighbouring community.

case study: installation of desalination plant at dgnp dry-dock site
the dgnp dry-dock project is located besides sea face at mumbai, maharashtra. the
construction activity mainly involves cement concrete work. the only way to fulfil the
water requirement of this project was to procure fresh water from municipal corporation of
greater mumbai (mcgm). however, this would have created a water burden on the local
community, which already faces acute water scarcity, especially in summer. we therefore
decided to install a desalination plant of 5 m3 / hr capacity.

the parameters of treated water were set as below:
      · quality of water – suitable for construction purpose
      · quantity of processed water or output from the plant - 5m3/hr
      · assumed hours of operation - 20hr/day


                                                                                         54

till june 2011, 3282 kl of treated water was made available through the desalination
plant and was used for construction activities. the projected water conservation for the
period of 3 years is estimated to be 108000 kl.


supply chain and watershed management
we recognize the fact that the adoption of comprehensive and total water management,
aimed at developing responsible infrastructure, is not possible without engaging
contractors & subcontractors (who execute various sub-tasks at our projects sites),
suppliers (supplying raw materials), and service providers assisting directly or indirectly in
the execution of our construction projects.

we are effectively engaging stakeholders by communicating the significance and strategies
of adopting the 4r water practices through focused events, conferences, workshops, &
symposium organized at local, state, and national levels.

for instance, on the occasion of world water day 22 nd march 2011, a communiqué
detailing the significance of hcc’s water initiatives was sent to all contractors, suppliers, &
service providers. it was aimed at sensitizing them to adopt water conservation measures
in their respective activities & operations.




     world water day 2011 celebrations               hcc communiqué sent out on the
         at the hcc head office                          world water day, 2011




                                                                                             55

collective action & public policy
recognising the importance of joint efforts through collective action, and in keeping with
the role hcc has historically played in the public policy arena, we have been involved in the
articulation and promotion of actions and activities through partnership with civil society
representatives, multilateral agencies, corporate groups and others. we also participate in
various policy advocacy forums at the company, local, regional, national, and international
levels.

this section highlights hcc’s participation in various advocacy events during 2010-11,
both on theme of water conservation as well as those pertaining to the larger sustainable
development context3:


world economic forum’s india economic summit 2010

the india economic summit, held in new delhi, india on november 14-16, 2010, paid
particular attention to how inclusive social and economic progress can be delivered in india
and serve as a model for other developing economies. india's imperatives include building
critical infrastructure, expanding skills development, addressing security threats and
achieving income and gender equality.

the global financial crisis accelerated a shift of power from the west back to the east and,
in the resulting landscape companies will need to forge new business models that generate
not only profit, but also more inclusive economic growth, according to panellists in the
opening meeting of the summit.

mr. ajit gulabchand, hcc chairman and managing director and a co-chair of the summit
said that "the private sector needs to understand that they are now expected by society to
play a role that goes beyond the role for which their business was created. they have a
transformational role to play.”

the global financial crisis hastened an ongoing, profound shift in the balance of global
economic and political power, klaus schwab, the forum's founder and executive chairman,
told the 800 participants from more than 45 countries who had convened for the three-day
summit. "this crisis was not just a cyclical crisis; it was a fundamental structural crisis."


world economic forum annual meeting 2011

the world economic forum annual meeting 2011 was held at davos on january 26 - 30,
2011. the theme this year was shared norms for the new reality, reflecting the fact that
we live in a world that is becoming increasingly complex and interconnected but also
experiencing an erosion of common values and principles.



3
 the collective action and public policy participations presented in this section fulfill both the un ceo water
mandate cop – 2011 and g3 gri sustainability report 2010-11 requirements.

                                                                                                                  56

mr. ajit gulabchand, the chair of the governor’s steering board of the engineering and
construction community of the world economic forum (wef), participated in a series of
meetings and panel discussions that deliberated on a range of themes, such as pathways
for a water secure future, emerging opportunities for the engineering and construction
sector, and how emerging economies can successfully embark on a low-carbon path.

the wef's disaster resource network (drn), of which mr. gulabchand is a founding
member, also announced the beginning of the process to launch the third country network
of the disaster resource partnership in indonesia. this initiative, announced by the
indonesian president, mr. susilo bambang yudhoyono, will further enhance the drn's
capabilities for quick response and recovery efforts and also aid in prevention efforts.

mr. gulabchand noted that the world economic forum in davos is a great platform for the
business industry to find out what is really happening in the world. he was also part of the
130-member strong confederation of indian industry (cii) delegation from india that
participated in davos 2011. the delegation, which comprised of high-ranking government
officials, ceos of major indian companies, media and civil society representatives,
organized several events on the sidelines of the annual meeting. the main attraction at
this year's annual meeting was cii's 'india inclusive' campaign, which aimed to raise india's
profile as a vibrant democracy, a fast growing stable economic power, and a cultural hub.


world ceo forum on sustainable development 2011

mr. ajit gulabchand was invited to be a panellist for high level panel discussion “developing
the green economy in india”. the panel discussion on developing the green economy in
india was moderated by mr nitin desai, chairperson – teri-bcsd india, distinguished
fellow, teri and former un under secretary general. the panel discussion was aimed at
discussing what the corporates have done to build a sustainable economy and how they can
work together for a greener future.

mr. gulabchand, who is also an executive member of the teri business council for
sustainable development (teri-bcsd), stressed that there are two aspects to green
business — green processes and green products, both of which will have to be combined in
order to develop green businesses.


6th national convention of un global compact 2011

the 6th national convention of global compact network, india bearing the theme
'globalization through global compact: towards a sustainable business' was held in
hyderabad on 4th february 2011.

the convention was well attended by over 200 delegates from the corporate, civil society
organizations and academic institutions. the honorable governor of hyderabad mr. e s l
narsimhan, mr. arun maira, member, planning commission, padmashri dr s subramanian,
mr. rana som, cmd nmdc, dr. uddesh kohli, sr. advisor ungc and other eminent
speakers shared their knowledge and wisdom during the convention. the deliberations
centered around the issues of supply chain management, collaboration opportunities

                                                                                           57

among government/enforcement agencies and corporate, especially in the context of
public private partnerships and challenges of diffusion and adaption of environment-
friendly technologies and green business.

mr. mohit bhutani from hcc participated in the convention and shared the experience of
un ceo water mandate implementation and development of ungc’s communication on
progress. being an endorser, hcc is committed to develop a sustainable model of working,
directed towards betterment of all its stakeholders.


water resource group (wrg) phase ii session 2010

the world economic forum (“the forum”) and its water initiative (“forum water
initiative”) is currently in an alignment with the water resources group (“wrg”). this
alignment was agreed at a meeting of water initiative ceos, representatives of the
forum’s global agenda council on water security and wrg principals in a session in davos,
january 2010, where the davos initiative was proposed. the alignment is called wrg
phase 2.

the overall goal of the wrg phase 2 is to create an enhanced wrg brand with a validated,
financed and uniquely public-private model that can, if invited to do so, support many other
governments facing water security challenges to catalyze change in their water sectors in
the long run. countries which have shown most interest in engaging with wrg include
india, south africa and jordan; ethiopia, mexico, mongolia, pakistan, and saudi arabia.

hcc, which is a member company of the wrg phase 2, actively participates in all activities
aligned in wrg phase 2, including the india-specific initiatives.


aquatech india 2011

the un water mandate team of hcc actively participated in the aquatech india 2011, an
exhibition on the water industry dealing in waste water management, drinking water and
other water related activities during 2nd - 4th march at the bombay exhibition centre,
goregaon, mumbai, india. the 3-day exhibition and conference was a confluence of
decision makers, professionals, advisors, technical experts, engineering organisations,
consultants and users from the water industry.




                                                                                          58

                    ms. kavita patil speaking at aquatech india 2011

ms. kavita patil of un water mandate team at hcc presented a paper entitled
“implementation of the ceo water mandate in coastal region: significance of rain water
harvesting”. ms. patil, after providing a glimpse of the preceding water scenario at the
coastal village kihim, explained the necessity of rain water harvesting and narrated the
success stories of initiatives taken by the hcc team at kihim in this regard.


india water forum 2011

the theme of india water forum (iwf) 2011 organized by the energy research institute
(teri) was `water security and climate change: challenges and opportunities’.
considering its great significance in today’s world, hcc became diamond sponsor of the
event and actively participated in conference deliberations by initiating discussion on
efficient water management in business planning by corporates and sharing hcc’s actions
on the ground in developing responsible infrastructure. our un water mandate team,
comprising of dr. manoj chaturvedi, mr. tushar thakur, mr. mohit bhutani, and ms. kavita
patil, represented hcc at the forum.




                 mr. mohit bhutani speaking at india water forum 2011

                                                                                           59

mr. mohit bhutani, an un water mandate team member at hcc, presented a paper entitled
“water initiatives by hindustan construction company ltd. aiming at developing
sustainable infrastructure” wherein besides providing an overview of water initiatives and
its impact at hcc’s construction site, mr. bhutani invited other corporate colleagues to join
hands in promoting the water initiative under the aegis of the ceo water mandate.


teri’s stakeholder dialogue on water use efficiency in the indian corporate sector

“stakeholder dialogue on water use efficiency in the indian corporate sector” that the
teri business council on sustainable development (teri-bcsd) had organised as a special
event at india water forum had participation from more than 70 senior representatives
from corporate sector and other stakeholders at the event to discuss and deliberate on the
efficient water management needs in business planning. the finale of the dialogue saw a
high level panel discussion from the corporate sector.

dr. manoj chaturvedi, deputy general manager-csr – un water mandate at hcc, was
among the panellists. dr. chaturvedi stressed on the need to internalize the issue of water
as an integral part of core business development by giving examples of various water
initiatives taken by the hcc and its impact on the ambient water environment, in general,
and in the neighbouring community, in particular.




 stakeholder dialogue on water use effeciency in the indian corporate sector, dr. manoj
      chaturvedi representing the hindustan construction company on the panel


united nations global compact week 2011

dr. manoj chaturvedi and mr. mohit bhutani represented hcc in “the seventh working
conference of the ceo water mandate” at copenhagen during may 16 – 20, 2011. the ceo
water mandate conducted two day multi-stakeholder sessions, mainly focused on
corporate water disclosure. sessions were centered on a range of emerging and salient
water disclosure issues, including how companies can measure and effectively

                                                                                          60

communicate water-related risk, whether there is a general approach for understanding
water-related materiality, as well as how the issue of "sustainability context" relates to
both of the aforementioned.

dr. chaturvedi was invited by ungc to speak during the roundtable session a:
implementation of gc resources and learnings. the master of ceremony (moc)
introduced this session followed by presentations of 10 discussants - two panellists from
each issue platform (human rights, labour, environment, anti-corruption, and business
and peace). the other panelist in environment segment was ms. habiba al marashi, chair,
emirates environmental group and board member of the un global compact, who
interviewd dr. chaturvedi.

dr. chaturvedi shared his views on the significance of resources developed by environment
working group & caring for climate (such as environmental stewardship strategy, low
carbon leaders project, guide to responsible business engagement with water policy) and
hcc experiences on translating these resources into action within the company and its
spheres of influence.




  roundtable session on implementation of gc resources and learnings: dr. manoj
 chaturvedi from hindustan construction company being interviewed by ms. habiba al
       marashi, chair, emirates environmental group and board member of the
                                 un global compact


wwf-india water stewardship workshop 2011

hcc participated in a multi stakeholder workshop, water stewardship workshop organized
by wwf india on 21st july 2011 to discuss the role of the private sector in promoting
india’s sustainable water future and the opportunities and risks associated with corporate
water stewardship.

wwf has been pioneering and developing new partnerships with private sector actors
globally to foster genuine, far reaching contributions to sustainable water management.
engagements range from water efficiency in agricultural crops, on-site water accounting


                                                                                             61

and demand management, to pro-active investment in watershed management, water
footprint assessments and reduction, the development of new international standards and
participation in national and international water policy debates, and better understanding
of biodiversity and concern for aquatic and other wildlife.

the objectives of this multistakeholder workshop were: to develop a shared understanding
of water stewardship activities, validate the analysis and information base developed to
scope water stewardship engagement, consider what role water stewardship could usefully
play in securing a fair and sustainable water future in india, explore and evaluate the risks
and opportunities of water stewardship for all stakeholders, and foster a better
undertaking of our concerns for bio-diversity.

dr. manoj chaturvedi represented hcc in the multistakeholder workshop and shared hcc’s
perspective on water stewardship.

united nations global compact leaders summit 2010

the un global compact leaders summit 2010 – ‘building a new era of sustainability’ was
held in new york on june 24-25, 2010. the summit brought together more than 1,200
leaders from business, civil society and governments from across the world to assess the
state of corporate responsibility and chart a course towards a new era of sustainability.

on 24th june, 2010, the opening press briefing for the summit was addressed by h.e. ban
ki-moon, secretary-general, united nations; mr. ajit gulabchand, chairman and managing
director, hcc; mr. mark foster, group chief executive, accenture; ms. huguette labelle,
chair of the board of directors, transparency international; and mr. paul polman, ceo,
unilever. the press briefing was intended to provide an overview of the sustainability
agenda and the un global compact, and to articulate expectations from the leaders
summit.

hcc, the only indian company on the dais, represented by mr. gulabchand, has set a
benchmark at the global platform, on the critical role businesses in developing countries
play towards sustainable development.

“as we grow, we have the opportunity to get things right the first time and therefore we
have been able to espouse the cause of sustainability and join the global compact,” said
mr. gulabchand. highlighting the efforts in the field of water, he added, “we have been
doing advocacy to create a water policy framework and have also engaged in the serious
practice of reducing the use of water and making sure we are water neutral in every
construct. in addition to that, we being a construction company are pledged to create a
responsible infrastructure. we intend to embed sustainability not only in the structure but
also in the operation of those structures as well as in the process of constructing them.”

on 25th june, 2010, a plenary meeting was held on ‘achieving development’, wherein
business leaders from across the world exchanged ideas on how corporate organizations
could contribute through ‘social investments’ to ensure holistic development. mr.
gulabchand, who was a plenary leader at this session, addressed the crucial issue of water
sustainability and highlighted hcc’s active participation in the ceo water mandate. “what


                                                                                            62

is important to understand is that water is a profoundly cross-cutting issue – and has
environmental, social, developmental and political ramifications. in fact, many businesses
are only now realizing the extent to which they are dependent on this scarce resource,”
observed mr. gulabchand.

the global compact leaders summit marks the tenth anniversary of the millennium
development goals initiative, launched in july 2000 with then forty-four businesses
making a commitment to adopt universal human rights, labor, environment, and anti-
corruption principles in their strategies and day-to-day operations. it is a leadership
program, endorsed by chief executive officers, offering a unique strategic platform for
participants to advance their commitments to sustainability and corporate citizenship.

global reporting initiative's construction and real estate sector supplement working
group’s final meeting 2011

as a member of gri’s construction and real estate sector supplement (cress) working
group, we proudly hosted the group’s final meeting at mumbai on 29 – 30 march 2011. the
working group consists of sustainability experts from real estate and construction
companies, external stakeholders like investors, labor organizations etc from around the
world. the mumbai meeting was the final of a series of six meetings and the agenda was to
review public comments feedback incorporating them as appropriate and to complete the
sector supplement. it is expected that from january 2013, all real estate and construction
companies using the gri framework for sustainability reporting will use this supplement.




               delegates particpating in the cress working group meeting
                                hosted by hcc in mumbai




                                                                                          63

community engagement
we make every possible effort to engage in and work for our local communities, ranging
from those communities within the fence (project affected community), around the fence
(community in vicinity of the project site), and beyond the fence (communities under our
sphere of influence but beyond our project activity).

with respect to within and around the fence, all project sites provides or make
arrangements for availing drinking water & sanitation facilities besides opportunities to
undergo health checkups through our special periodic medical check-up camps. some of
the activities carried out or initiated in the reporting period beyond our fence are described
below:

akash ganga project

the akash ganga project is funded by the department of science & technology,
government of india, and is being executed by sustainable innovations (si), a non-profit
organization based in the u.s. the project holistically addresses sustainable rainwater
harvesting. akash ganga has won accolades for innovation and sustainability from the
world bank, massachusetts institute of technology, and energy globe foundation.

the akash ganga project aims at:

   ·   showcasing economical, cultural, and operational sustainability in the current six
       villages
   ·   implementing akash ganga in two clusters of villages as social enterprise or public-
       private-community partnership
   ·   building prototype of rainwater harvesting park

hcc has signed a memorandum of understanding with si, under which hcc is providing
technical support for the akash ganga network design, review of designs, and development
of rainwater harvesting park.


water initiative at kihim, maharashtra

kihim is a coastal village in raigarh district of maharashtra i.e. in the konkan coastal zone.
it has a scenic beach, and is primarily a tourist destination. details of the interventions at
kihim can be found in hcc’s cop-water for 2010.

in line with our earlier initiative, efforts are continually being made to spread the
significance of environmental enhancement projects at kihim amongst local residents of
kihim. aimed at addressing fresh water availability in the coastal village of maharashtra,
efforts were made to establish rain water harvesting systems in the village. there were a
total of three pilot proposals, three public proposals, four private proposals and seven
community proposals. execution of rain-water harvesting (rwh) structures was carried
out as per these proposals. total water conserved through these rwh structures in 2010


                                                                                            64

is summarized hereunder. all the results are based on community observations and log
records maintained by members of the community.

below are the figures for months of july 2010 to sept. 2010:

   ·   quantity of water recharge through bore wells is 78.5 m3
   ·   quantity of water recharge through open well is 138.8 m3
   ·   total quantity of water recharge through bore well & open well is 217.3 m3
   ·   quantity of treated municipal tap water saved by using rain water for household
       activities is 168.8 m3

after the implementation of these aforementioned rwh based water initiative, these
proposals proved to be significant for the long-term water conservation solution at kihim.
it should be noted that through the aforementioned interventions at kihim, villagers have
realized that abandoned wells can be used for water recharge and that rwh lightens the
work load of women by making water available for household activity at the utilization
point. the execution of rwh projects at kihim helped the plumbers understand the
functional purpose of each component of design. it also allowed the masons to display their
skill. to increase the quantity of recharged water, we further explored a pilot project,
wherein the roof of a local school was connected to the recharge well. over the years, our
initiatives have positively impacted residents of kihim, and during the past year, they
voluntarily came forward for guidance on adopting rain-water harvesting in their respective
premises.
following are some pictures of the voluntary implementation of rwh projects under the
technical guidance of our un water mandate team:




          pictures of bore-well recharges in the households of kihim residents



                                                                                         65

water initiatives at walchand college of engineering, sangli

hcc’s un water mandate team visited the walchand college of engineering (wce) at
sangli to provide an overview of the ceo water mandate as well as the significance of 4r
(reduce, recycle, reuse and recharge) options for water management. efforts are
underway to form a group of students who would develop and execute projects pertaining
to management of water resources and sanitation aspects at the college.


transparency
communication on progress (cop)

we continue to support the united nations global compact’s ceo water mandate initiative
and we, therefore, have worked and will continue working with all our stakeholders
(internal as well as external) to promote water consciousness, internalize water efficiency
in business decisions, and develop strategies for the development of sustainable
infrastructure by ensuring implementation of appropriate approaches for 4rs: reduce,
recycle, reuse, and recharge at all our direct operations and within our sphere of
influence and reporting on progress made during the reporting period.

we recognize the correlation of business sustainability with water resource management
and are committed to reduce the amount of water used across our construction project
sites, especially in regions where water availability is already difficult. our water
consciousness is elucidated in our company’s mission: “to contribute and actively
participate in the un ceo water mandate” (hcc’s management system manual chapter
2.1 of hcc q 01 02 01).

sections of this chapter essentially focus on six key areas of action under the ceo water
mandate’s (direct operations, supply chain and watershed management, collective action,
public policy, community engagement and transparency) and delineate the outcomes of
specific activities and/or actions undertaken by us in these key areas. this chapter serves
as our communication on progress (cop-water) for year 2010-2011. the reporting period
for the cop is september 2010 to august 2011.

budget allocations

in line with our mission statement and in continuance to hcc’s top management decision of
last year, the annual budget proposals for all our projects (old, new, and upcoming) have
provisions for implementing water initiatives related to 4r (reduce, recycle, reuse, and
recharge) interventions this year too. our projects sites are entitled to carry out these
projects on their own if the installation cost is rs. 2 million or less. interventions costing
more than this value are implemented in consultation with our corporate head office.




                                                                                           66

investments for water initiatives

we have invested rs. 18.68 millions in implementing the ceo water mandate. this amount
covers various soft activities and installation of hardware for water interventions.




                                                      46%

                 54%
                                                                       soft investments
                                                                       hard investments




soft investments

the soft investments include sponsoring of and participation in conferences and
workshops, travel expenses, books & periodicals, salaries, cost of specialized training,
contribution to the ungc foundation, promotional activities etc. our total soft
investments are to the tune of rs. 8.68 million, as shown below:



                                       18%

                                                 2%
                                                            conferences, travel, books &
                                                            office expenses
           58%                                     22%      specialized training

                                                            advertisement & sponsorship

                                                            saleries




hard investments

the investments made in execution of water consciousness proposals of the 4 r water
interventions (reduce, reuse, recycle, recharge) at our project sites are reported under
hard investments, which amount to rs. 10 million for this reporting period.

                                                                                           67

epilogue
since our inception in 1926, we have been a pioneer in the indian engineering and
construction sector, having executed some of the largest and most technically challenging
infrastructure projects in the country. our company’s history is inextricably linked with
india’s nation-building endeavour. we being a construction company are committed to
create responsible infrastructure. we intend to embed sustainability not only in the
structure but also in to the operation of those structures as well as in the process of
constructing them. aiming at and maintaining our commitment towards building
responsible infrastructure, we have endorsed various ungc initiatives including the ceo
water mandate & caring for climate, which have essentially helped us realize our
sustainability goals in an effective manner. at hcc, we not only follow best practices but
follow next practices.

over the past three years of implementing the ceo water mandate at our projects, we
have been able to optimize the utilization of water. this has given us a greater ability to
conserve precious freshwater on the one hand, and minimize our carbon footprint
associated with resourcing and pumping the freshwater to our construction sites on the
other. with continual engagement in various ungc initiatives including the ceo water
mandate, we have been able to disseminate our experiences and success stories of our
work in water management at various advocacy and public forums.




social performance




                                                                                              68

social performance

employees

we are committed to the creation and retention of a world-class workforce to help it in our
mission of building responsible infrastructure in the country.

as of 31st march 2011, hcc’s total workforce was 30636, comprising of 2531 officers
(senior, middle and junior management and trainees; 118 officers are women) and 28105
workmen (on project rolls, sub-contractor rolls and piece rate workers).

                35000

                30000

                25000

                20000                                           employees
                                                                (as on 1-apr-10)
                15000                                           employees
                                                                (as on 31-mar-11)
                10000

                 5000

                    0
                          officers   workmen       total



in 2010-11, there was a 15.7% increase in the number of women employed in the officer
category (both permanent and contractual) at hcc.

all our workmen (both permanent and temporary) at all our offices and project sites have
the right of collective bargaining. while the workers on hcc rolls (~35% of our total
workforce) are fully unionized, the terms and conditions of the workmen on sub-contractor
rolls and piece rate workers or prws (who represent about 60% of our total workforce) are
bargained by their respective sub-contractors/prws.

 gender                   employees             employees             rate of employees
 (officer category)       (as on 1-apr-10)      (as on 31-mar 11)     leaving employment**
 male                     2323                  2413                  20.35%
 female                   102                   118                   12.73%
 total                    2425                  2531                  overall: 20.02%
 age groups               employees             employees             rate of employees
 (officer category)       (as on 1-apr-10)      (as on 31-mar-11)     leaving employment**
 <30                      616                   649                   36.54%
 30-50                    1557                  1614                  16.52%
 >50                      252                   268                   7.27%
 total                    2425                  2531                  overall: 20.02%
** turnover rate calculated using average manpower in the period april1, 2010 to march 31, 2011

                                                                                              69

respect for diversity and human rights is intrinsic to our company philosophy and culture.
we are committed to fair labor practices and comply with all local laws and statutory
requirements. being an equal opportunity employer, hcc does not discriminate on the
basis of caste, religion, region, nationality or gender among existing and potential
employees. we follow a zero-tolerance approach towards child labor issues. to this end, we
strictly enforce the age verification of all our employees and contract laborers at all our
project sites.

our full time employees enjoy the following benefits during their association with us:

   ·   medical insurance scheme
   ·   group superannuation scheme/ pension scheme
   ·   executive health check-up facility ( senior & middle management)
   ·   employees stock options (senior management)
   ·   annual performance linked incentive (senior & middle management) & incentives for
       project sites
   ·   additional allowance/ benefits for employees posted in difficult locations

the provident fund benefit is also extended to our contractual employees in addition to
our full time staff.

our workforce continues to be eligible for the set of retirement benefits we reported last
year. these are:

   ·   group superannuation scheme with lic (defined contribution plan)
   ·   family pension scheme under employees provident fund
   ·   gratuity
   ·   provident fund

provident fund, including family pension (under rpfc) and superannuation scheme with
lic of india are looked after by a separate trust. the other plans such as gratuity continue
to be met by the company from its accounts.

we continue to focus on bringing in talent into the organization at the project and
corporate levels. a recruitment tracking tool has also been developed to streamline the
manpower budgeting and approval process. in addition, a planned performance
management process was implemented and concluded in the reporting year.

learning and development continues to be a critical aspect of our human resources
strategy. for officers, a gamut of technical & managerial programs catering to specific
needs of various business sectors, functions & individual employees have been designed &
rolled out in 2010-11. this year, our officers underwent training at an average of 16.6
hours per employee.

training for workers (including sub-contract & prw staff) is organized at site. these
trainings are focused on skill enhancement (have a higher practical component) and enable
the workmen to upgrade their skill for continued employability. industry experts are used

                                                                                             70

as faculty for these programs. technical programs related to equipment operation &
maintenance (o&m) are conducted by the relevant oems. our workers underwent training
at an average of 2.3 hours per worker.

special emphasis is given to the training of graduate & management trainees. a
combination of classroom, on-the-job training & special assignments coupled with coaching
by seniors helps these new entrants to transition into their corporate life. trainees
received as much as 67.4 hours per person in 2010-11.

in addition to organizing in-house customized programs, employees are nominated for
national and international seminars / conferences for skill and knowledge enhancement.
this enables them to stay up-to-date with the latest technology/ developments in their
domain. this year 751 man-days of training were imparted through these external
seminars alone.

at hcc, we also extend financial support for external training or education as we recognize
its importance for our employees. employees who wish to pursue higher studies can avail
the policy of sabbatical leave, which (if approved by the management) can be availed for a
maximum period of 2 years, while maintaining lien on their job in hcc.

we attach the utmost importance to the occupational health and safety of our employees
and project sites. in the past year, we enhanced our safety and health related trainings at
all our project sites for our employees, contract workers and also members of the
surrounding communities. our emphasis on creating safe and healthy workplaces has
earned us numerous accolades and recognitions in the past year. we are committed to
achieve our stated corporate goal of zero reportable injury across all our operations.


employee health and safety

at hcc, safety at the project site has always been an area of utmost priority. a number of
our projects were commended with certificates of appreciation for achieving record safe
man hours in the year 2010-11:

· the polavaram right main canal project achieved 6 million safe man hours from
  january 15, 2009, to september 30, 2010, and has received a certificate of
  appreciation from the irrigation department of the government of andhra pradesh.

· nimmo bazgo hydro power project received a certificate of appreciation on completing
  5.27 million safe man hours from october 2008 to september 2010, and were highly
  commended by the client, nhpc (national hydro power corporation) for this
  achievement despite logistic and climate constraints.

last year, we had reported the injury rate and lost days per million manhours worked for all
sites where data was available. in order to streamline the reporting, this year we have
calculated these parameters only for those sites that are in scope this year. this is
presented in the following graph, which gives a vertical wise trend at sites in scope.



                                                                                          71

we see an encouraging trend of fall in injury rate across all four verticals. all four projects
in scope under the water vertical stood out with their record of zero injuries and fatalities.
while we maintain a record of even first aid level injuries, we have reported injuries that
classify as lost-time cases herein; the lost-days count start only after the 48-hour period
for reportable injuries as per the factories act, 1948. we have continued to enforce
stricter safety measures to avoid a similar incident at the site.




                                                                                              72

at most of our sites, we also run awareness, counseling and risk control programs on hiv/
aids management for our employees as well as members of the community.

employee training

the total numbers of man-hours of training carried out in the reporting period is depicted
in the table below:


                              category of                2010-11
                              employment                 (hours/person/year)

                              all officers               16.62
                              trainees                   67.43
                              workers                    2.32


case study: employee health & safety initiatives at kolkata elevated
                        corridor project
any construction activity is anticipated to have potential hazard to health and safety of the
employees. hcc being a bs ohsas 18001 certified company carries out all its activities in
a manner that does not affect the health and safety of our employees. to achieve this goal,
the project management team at the kolkata elevated corridor project site has established
a systematic occupational safety and health management system described below:

medical checkup during joining:

the following flowchart describes the procedure for enforcement of a medical checkup of
every individual laborer employed at the project site.


                                       new joining




                                    filtered by hr dept.




                        yes           found suitable             no




                                    medical checkup for
                                         fitness



                        yes          found fit to work           no




                                   sent for hse induction             rejected

                                                                                             73

regular medical checkup:

apart from medical fitness checkup during initial employment, the following specialized
medical examinations are conducted on a regular basis:

for drivers & operators: eye test
for cement handlers: pft test
for food handlers: pathology test

dispensary / first aid center:

a first aid center is located at our casting yard at nona danga. all the medicines of general
nature, first-aid supplies, oxygen cylinders with necessary accessories, stretchers and
beds for patients are available at this center. all minor cases are handled at our dispensary
and the medicines given are under the guidance of a qualified doctor. two male nurses are
appointed for both day and night shifts. a competent doctor visits the dispensary six days
a week for an hour each day.

apart from this we have a tie up with a well reputed nearby hospital. any major emergency
major is referred to this hospital. the agreement with the hospital comes with a privilege to
have immediate cashless treatment facility.

ambulance facility:

an ambulance with all the required accessories is provided for emergencies. two drivers
have been appointed for the ambulance for day and night shifts. the contact numbers of
the drivers are displayed in the emergency telephone number chart provided at various
locations. regular maintenance of the ambulance is done by the project mechanical
department to ensure that it is in good condition.

safety:

our apex guiding manual named “project occupational health & safety management plan”
at the project site level, describes in detail how the potential hazards associated with each
activity leading to effect on the safety and health of the employees and all interested
parties and shall be identified and controlled. all the potential hazards of the project shall
be identified, so that the adverse effect can be prevented, controlled or minimized by
having suitable engineering, administrative and operational control measures.


the following objectives have been set to meet the requirements of the occupational
health & safety (oh & s) policy:

   ·   minimize risk to our employees and other interested parties who may be exposed to
       oh & s risks associated with our activities.
   ·   continual improvement of the oh & s management system.
   ·   reducing the frequency of all incidents and minimizing/eliminating loss of man days.

                                                                                            74

   ·   train and retrain the site personnel for enhancing their competence and expertise
       with the view to reduce accidents/incidents.
   ·   procure best quality personal protective equipment (ppe) and ensure its use to
       minimize exposure to physical risks.
   ·   integrate oh & s with other business processes.


the initiatives we undertook to meet the above objectives include:

   ·   safety induction is compulsory for all the labors, supervisors, engineers and sub
       contractors. after the induction ppes issued to them. then only they are allowed to
       go to the site.

   ·   regular site visits by the hse personnel, inspection of equipments, electrical
       installations, housekeeping, height works, hot works, and use of ppes etc are being
       conducted.

   ·   hazards arising from the activities involved in the project are identified along with
       their controlling measures.

   ·   safety and cautionary signages are displayed at site. safety posters and slogans
       displayed for awareness.

   ·   weekly meetings, tool box talks, trainings conducted to enhance the understanding
       of safety amongst the workforce.

   ·   a safety committee is formed which includes equal number of members from
       management & non management (workers & sub contractor) level. the committee
       gathers for meeting on monthly basis.

   ·   a team from the committee visits the site on monthly basis to rate the performance
       of various activities from safety point of view.

   ·   use of ppe is scrupulously enforced among all site workers every single day. these
       include safety helmets, safety belts, safety shoes, hand gloves, fall arrested, e




                                                                                               75

corporate stewardship at hcc

five areas of corporate stewardship at hcc:




    disaster          hiv/aids            water          education           community
    resource          awareness                                             development
    network




water

we recognize the close correlation of business sustainability with water resource
management and are striving to reduce the amount of water used across our operations
and activities as well as implementing water conservation initiatives for the communities in
which we operate. we are an endorser of the un global compact’s ceo water mandate,
and the water consciousness initiatives we undertook in the reporting year are described in
the ceo water mandate communication on progress (cop-water) section of this report.


education

it is our endeavor to create trained engineers and other personnel for our in-house human
resource needs. closing the productivity gap vis-à-vis global competition is a critical need
in the infrastructure sector. walchand college of engineering (wce), one of the oldest
engineering colleges in india, started by the walchand family is mentored by mr. ajit
gulabchand, chairman & managing director of hcc, and chairman of the college board.
the college is a major success story towards the realization of this objective. this
prestigious academic institution received autonomy in 2007, and in may 2011, the first
batch of b.tech students graduated under this autonomy. addressing the students as they
embarked on a new journey, mr. gulabchand urged them to keep in touch with new
development and to learn and educate themselves continuously. in all, 468 engineers
passed out of wce in the academic year 2010-11, including 20 medalists. in true reflection
of the caliber of wce’s engineering faculty, all the students of the 2010-11 batch have
been placed in india’s premier companies under the campus recruitment program.


                                                                                          76

hiv/aids awareness
we have long recognized the serious impact that hiv/aids amongst migrant workers can
have on the enterprise and has initiated the workplace intervention program (wpi) since
2004. the program aims to sustain optimal workplace productivity by conducting
prevention, education and awareness training. as hiv/aids have emerged as a major
threat not only to the health system but also to the economy of the nation, we view
hiv/aids more as a social-economic issue than a purely social one.

our goal is to “educate, raise awareness on hiv/aids among the workforce to enable them
to protect themselves and their families by minimizing hiv infection and contributing a
supportive environment for prevention response.”

rationale for adopting hiv/aids as csr mandate:

· we directly and indirectly employ 45,000 migrant laborers and truck drivers. they form
  one of the most vulnerable groups to acquire hiv/aids, due to lack of knowledge and
  awareness. mainly falling under the productive and reproductive age group of 15-49,
  they act as a bridge population.

· while there is still no cure for hiv/aids, prevention has proven to be effective.

· workplace intervention program (wpi) helps protect the rights of infected people and
  reduces the stigma/discrimination attached to the epidemic.

· national aids control organization (naco) emphasizes partnerships and alliances with
  corporate/private sector in combating hiv/aids as these sectors have a significant
  stake in the overall well-being of the nation.

components of the hiv/aids wpi-prevention program:

   ·   hiv/aids educational and awareness programs
   ·   training the trainers – master trainers program
   ·   training of peer educators
   ·   behavior change activities
   ·   involvement of people living with hiv/aids in training programs
   ·   linking testing, care and support services with the government facilities

the wpi model is based on three tier system viz. training of trainers, creating trained
peer educators and sensitization of management (officers), so that their support the
program will percolate down to all beneficiaries. the objective behind deputing a team of
trained trainers (master trainers) is to promote good health among our workforce in order
to derive higher productivity, prevention of infection, and providing care by reducing the
stigma and discrimination at the workplace.




                                                                                          77

training of the trainers: master trainers program

the master trainer’s play very important role in prevention and creating hiv/aids
awareness at project sites in following way:

   ·   sustainability of the program
   ·   consistency in delivering correct hiv/aids messages to the workforce
   ·   regular monitoring within the site/department
   ·   abiding to the hiv/aids work place policy by implementing effectively the wpi
       program
   ·   reaching to the employees who are “vulnerable and “at risk” and ultimately
       securing them and their families future and health.
   ·   catering to all the employees entering in the project at any given point of time by
       educating, making them aware on the issue and empowering them for adopting
       preventive measures.
   ·   broadening the csr hiv/aids initiative and expanding to community systematically
       and effectively.
   ·   creating conducive environment which will result in minimizing infection and stigma
       and discrimination.

in the past year, the training of trainers - master trainers (tot) was conducted at our
head office for volunteers nominated from various departments. during this program
twelve champions on hcc’s hiv/aids policy and program were trained. the two day
program was conducted by an international labor organization (ilo) team from new delhi,
comprising of ms. divya verma, senior coordinator, wpi and mr. s.m. baqar.




            hiv/aids master training program at hcc head office, mumbai

the program was inaugurated by mr. suhas putambekar, head, internal audit, where he
mentioned essentially the company’s policy vis-a-vis the program and importance of the
issue. mr. vasudevan, head, ims, felicitated all the trainers by giving certificate of
completion.

a similar master trainers training program was also conducted for all project site
volunteers. it helped in enhancing the skills of the trainers to enable them practice
sessions on hiv/aids/stis, prevention, care and support on site, effectiveness of their

                                                                                          78

health education sessions at the workplace and familiarize to the concept/process of
behavior change in the context of hiv/aids program. furthermore, a team of our head
office master trainers conducted series of sensitization sessions for all corporate
departments successfully.

at the end of the year 2010-11, a total of 46,398 officers and workers have been covered
through the wpi program. we have created a pool of 301 master trainers and peer
educators across our project sites. the total number of man-hours spent on the wpi
program is now 143,674 hours. creation of a trained master trainer and peer educator
pools has helped us fulfill our employee sensitization and training in-house without the
need of an outside consultant.

new strategic partnership:

in march 2011, hcc and the times foundation, in association with the municipal
corporation of greater mumbai (mcgm), launched a health initiative titled project sahyog.
technically and financially supported by hcc, this initiative will complement our corporate
social responsibility mandate on health, primarily focusing on the hiv/aids issue among
the slum pockets of mumbai and supporting the government program under the public
private partnership model. this year-long project will enhance the outreach skills of the
frontline health workers of mcgm and will help them to increase community contacts for
carrying these slum pockets, the messages on maternal and child health, gynecological
health and prevention of hiv/aids.

world aids day celebration at hcc:

the world aids day was celebrated on 1st december 2010 at the hcc head office in
mumbai and at various project sites to show our solidarity and commitment to work
towards the prevention of the epidemic. the theme for the year 2010 was ‘stop aids keep
the promise – universal access and human rights’. activities organized across our project
sites include screening of informative movies, street plays, distribution of literature, blood
donation campus and various competitions.


disaster response network
the disaster resource network (drn) is a global network of engineering and construction
companies that provides engineering and construction expertise for relief work during and
after natural disasters and crises. the drn was established in november 2002 in the
aftermath of the 2001 gujarat earthquake. while the global network did not take off
immediately, two chapters – drn india and mexico - kickstarted as pilots. hcc was one of
the strong facilitators in forming this network first as a founding member, and continuing
to have representation on drn’s board of directors. our chairman and managing director,
mr. ajit gulabchand is also the chairman of drn india chapter.




                                                                                            79

building on the drn model in india and mexico, the engineering & construction disaster
response partnership (drp)*4 – a new private public partnership model for disaster
response emerged in the early months of fy 2010-11; this includes global partnerships and
regional networks. hcc was one of the actively participating companies that shared
specific interventions in past natural disasters to steer work in the creation of drp.

in 2010-11, hcc expanded the emergency trainings to cover more number of sites and
employees. while the first responder training is a basic training given to employees on
how to respond during crises, engineering in emergencies training is an advanced level
residential training given to a subset of hcc engineers to qualify them for emergency relief
and rehabilitation work. the following table shows the total number of man-hours and
employees covered under both the training programs:

                 type of drn training              employees        man-hours
                 first responder training          10,415           41,660

                 engineering in emergencies        66               3,696
                 training




    case study: relief and restoration work in the leh flash floods
in august 2010, a catastrophic cloud burst and flash floods ravaged leh, in jammu and
kashmir, leaving behind a trail of death and huge destruction. hcc, which has two large
engineering project sites in the ladakh and kargil regions, deployed trained engineers for
relief and restoration work in the affected villages close to the project sites.

a total of 380 staff members, led by ‘engineering in emergencies’ trained engineers,
clocked 1,36,800 man-hours for the relief work. the support activities included rescue
operations, cleaning of villages, schools and monasteries, restoration of roads and bridges,
provision of drinking water and sanitation facilities, distribution of relief materials and
medicines, and health check-ups for the villagers.

among the various restoration activities carried out by hcc were the rebuilding of the druk
white lotus school in shey, cleaning of the rizhong monastery at uleytokpo, building a
drinking water canal at khaling, and repairing a bridge at hemischoo. hcc partnered with
various players in the humanitarian sector such as ndma, oxfam, seeds, save the
children, who, redr, etc.




4
 more information regarding drp is available on
http://www3.weforum.org/docs/wef_en_disasterresourcepartnership_report_2010.pdf

                                                                                          80

the disaster also ravaged the school in which the bollywood blockbuster movie “3 idiots”
was filmed. the druk white lotus school is being run by the london based drupka trust.
the school is located at shey, about 15 km from the project site on leh-manali highway.
heavy earth moving equipment such as jcb and tippers along with a team of more than 75
people including a trained disaster relief engineer, were deployed to clear mud and sludge
left behind by cloudburst. this team completed the clean-up within the short period of a
week. actor amir khan who visited the school, publicly expressed his appreciation of hcc’s
work which had helped the school and its students to quickly resume their normal
activities.

a team of 15 workers went to khaling village near hcc’s nimmo site to reroute a water
trench (“nala”) for drinking water. another team of hcc ee trained engineers built toilets
and water supply system along with oxfam. in addition to the relief work, our team from
chutak hydroelectric project, kargil sent relief material and a rescue team for the
rehabilitation work at leh, this included 500 packets of food material, 500 blankets and a
rescue team of 25 people (supervisor, cook and laborers).


community development

each of the infrastructure projects that we build has a positive impact on the communities
that benefit from it. in addition, during the course of our construction, some of our sites
have taken up activities to help the surrounding communities:




                                                                                          81

community development initiatives by hcc at assam road project site

the assam road project is one of the most prestigious projects of hcc in northeastern
india being carried out under the national highways development project (nhdp), ministry
of roads and transport, government of india. upon its successful completion, the highway
project will connect the extreme eastern and western parts of the country and contribute
to the overall development within assam. the project stretches along the northern half of
the dima hasao autonomous hill district in assam, a region marked by difficult hilly
terrain, under-development and militancy. very poor connectivity to the outside world has
been identified as the major cause for the lack of development in this region.

as the lone contractor in the area until recently, we have played a pivotal role in providing
connectivity to this remote region, resulting in new employment opportunities for the local
communities and tourism activity. this will hopefully bring an end to the militancy.

through structured intervention, we have been successful in winning the faith and building
up the confidence of the residents of dima hasao district. some of our initiatives include
sponsorship and material help in the local community festivals and construction of
approach roads for easier transportation of the local people. we have also sponsored a
‘national integration mela’ at haflong and initiated the restoration and protection of ‘stone
house’, a local heritage structure originally built in the 16th century. in addition, we have
sponsored the construction of a temple and developed a football field for the village youth.
a total of rs. 7,19,680 was spent on these community initiatives.




           restored heritage structure and newly developed football field
                       at the dima hasao district of assam


csr activities at kihim, maharashtra

we have partnered with kihim gram panchayat for developing effective solid waste
management over the past three years. last year, in response to the lack of garbage
collection facility in the village, we handed over a scientific garbage collection van to the
village sarpanch. the van was purchased on the basis of a public private partnership
between hcc and the village gram panchayat.

                                                                                                82

a beach cleaning drive was organized by hcc at kihim on october 3, 2010. the main
objective of this program was to clean the beach through community participation and
engage students and the youth through creation of posters with relevant messages. the
event saw a strong turnout, including 82 students, 65 community representatives and
other gram panchayat members and staff. after the beach cleaning, the students
participated in a poster-session on the themes of water, sanitation, solid waste
management and messages for the tourists to keep the beaches clean.

we have also partnered with the gram panchayat over the past three years to address
environmental and developmental issues. as part of the initiative to educate the village
students, hcc donated computers to three local schools between january 2011 and march
2011. the main objective of this gift is to educate the students on various aspects of
health and environment through the medium of information technology.




                 hcc chairman & managing director mr. ajit gulabchand
                                with school children


in addition to the above case studies, a summary of the community initiatives undertaken
by some of our other project sites is presented below:

· the civil works arm of our aditya potshell project spent rs. 4, 41,000 on making
  drinking water supply available to the local community. in addition, the fabrication
  works division at the site also improved the community’s connectivity by modifying
  approach road to the state highway.

· our vizag site donated rs. 2, 50, 000/- for the construction of community hall under
  company’s csr activities at village pendurthi. the newly constructed community hall
  was inaugurated by mr. k r vishvanath, sr. vice president, hcc mumbai along with mr.
  k v ramana rao, project manager among others.
· our nimmo bazgo hydroelectric power project site organized a pulse polio camp at the
  site dispensary. three female nurses from the government hospital at saspol, two male
  nurses and site medical officer made this event a success.

· our site team at the mughal road project has been deeply appreciated by the locals for
  effecting water supply to padpavan village round the year through the use of hcc

                                                                                         83

  tankers. the total cost was to the tune of rs. 2,70,000 for this effort. further, we spent
  rs. 5,940 in making available first aid facility and free public medical consultations.

· the polavaram project site took up the construction of permanent shed for a hostel
  belonging to an organization for physically challenged children at the devarapalli village.

· the kishanganga hydroelectric-power project team has spent rs. 9,09,000 for supply of
  food items, blankets, warm clothing, social services etc, to the local residents, taking a
  pro-active need-based approach.

· the kashang project has sponsored lunch for students and parents during annual
  events at the local senior secondary school in pangi. the team also organizes medical
  checkup twice every a week. the financial contributions amounted to rs. 4,51,000.

· the chutak hydroelectric power team has donated rs. 3,17,220 for the renovation of
  the ‘imam bara’ in stickhey village and other community development projects.

· our medical facility at the dagacchu (in bhutan) hydropower plant makes available free
  consultations and medicines to the local communities. the project team has also helped
  in the construction of the community school building and participated in tree plantation.
  direct costs incurred for these activities were to the tune of rs. 5,00,000.


gulabchand foundation
the gulabchand foundation is engaged in undertaking a number of corporate social
responsibility activities. in the past year, the foundation has supported, amongst other
causes, cochlear implant surgery for children. this is a surgical procedure to implant a
digital device within the ear to treat profound deafness; this surgery being most effective
in children. we support persons financially for the surgery based on several factors like the
recommendation of doctor, age of the patient, financial status of the parents, parent’s
commitment etc established through home visit, interview with parents, etc. in 2010, rs.
5,12,000 were donated for the ci surgery of four year old boy.

the foundation has helped in making available health services to burn victims below the
poverty line. we have supported the burns and plastic surgery department of btn medical
college and byl nair charitable hospital, in this regard in the form of a donation to the
tune of rs. 1,40,50,000 for purchase of equipments for their clinical skilled laboratory.
through this facility which would serve as a role model in patient care and teaching, we
hope to reach out to a larger population in need of such facilities by producing excellent
surgeons in the field.




                                                                                           84

innovation at hcc
sustainable technology effort:

at hcc, the technology wing is unceasingly focusing on incorporating sustainable
technologies, improvising existing technologies and creating sustainable business value
through multi-disciplinary approach. the technology wing spearheads hcc’s engineering,
innovation, research and construction development activities. dividing its activities into
five primary functions viz. engineering, innovation, construction research and
development, integrated management systems (quality, safety and environment) and
tendering, the technology wing creates value from the stage of wining projects to
executing them. the following two sections describe innovation and construction research
and development efforts.

value engineering through engineering & design:

with high growth demands and speed construction demands and to have cost effective
proposals, the engineering & design works were carried out by national, international
design consultants and in-house design teams by using 2d, 3d modeling & physical
modeling with autocad, staddpro, wallap, phase 2 software. engineering and
design inputs were selected from site investigation and field testing/study to have
continuous improvements in design inputs.
the alternative proposals were developed in the field of hydro-electric projects, transport
projects, water sector projects & special projects from tender stage to execution stage
keeping the vision of sustainable growth of company for which design teams are formed
during tender stage and execution stage. team consists of tendering engineers, design
engineers, planning engineers, construction engineers and external consultant & advisors.
the designs were made more effective and economical from the point of reduction in
construction materials and speedy construction.




             physical model of study of dagachhu hep at innsbruck, austria




                                                                                          85

creation of innovation department

a dedicated innovation forum has been established to drive innovation at hcc. this forum
is placed at the heart of hcc’s organizational map; innovation is central for all the
functions. activities of all the functions are seamlessly integrated with innovation
department. hcc has coined a new name for innovation activity – “innovention” (a fusion
of “innovation” and “invention”).




                                   hcc e&c top management




                       function                                                  function

                                               innovation
                                                 forum

                       function                                                   function




key components of innovention forum


                                  •dedicated forum to facilitate innovention activity
       innovention forum          •forum for taking ideas from seed stage to implementation

                                  •interaction channel for employee and innovention forum
       innovention portal         •idea cpature, sharing, knowledge management


  structured evaluation process   •for taking up good ideas for implementation


                                  •rewarding individual employees and project teams for
            rewards                contributing/implementing innovative ideas


                                  •through e-mails, portal and sms for encouraging active participation of all
        communication              employees

      external idea capture       •by collaborations with universities, apex bodies and clients
           mechanism              •by establishing networks with suppliers and vendors

                                  •through portal
    knowledge management          •by encouraging employees to share project experiences



                                                                                                                 86

objectives of innovention portal

the innovention portal, launched in october 2010, has received an enthusiastic response
from hcc employees. the ideas submitted by them and the innovations executed at the
project sites are short-listed and evaluated by structured evaluation process.

we strongly believe that innovation is a direct function of creativity and motivation. at
hcc, we motivate our employees to contribute to productivity, cost-saving, quality, and
also for innovativeness. out-of-box thinkers are recognized and rewarded. thus, the
innovation culture is nurtured in the company by providing an atmosphere of energy and
excitement which provides high levels of motivation.

to recognize the talent of our employees and provide an incentive for participation in this
program, we present monthly and yearly awards (monetary reward and certificate of
recognition) to employees who submit the most impactful ideas/solutions as well as to the
best innovation team.

    innovation portal
           to make knowledge sources available to the employees

           channel of communication between employees and forum

           for submission of ideas, project experience sharing and project-
           related problems

           for running campaigns and communications

           for portrayal of award winner employees

           to invoke creative thinking


examples of innovation ideas developed by hcc employees

 dry classifier system for crusher-produced fine aggregates


 audtomation of designs by integrating various softwares into one application

 development of small hydro power schemes at hcc project sites to generate electricity that can be used for the
 project

 application of milling and recycling of existing pavements for a highway construction project


 innovative method to control seepage in underground tunnels


 innovative design of a low-cost snow remover




                                                                                                                  87

sustainable construction research and development
research and development (r&d) are becoming key and core drivers of construction
business. the grand challenges of human society are making every civil engineer think –
how to make each infrastructure sustainable right from its inception to execution to
handing over; and from handing over to maintenance to its demolition and reuse. for each
ounce of resource we consume today, we are and will increasingly become accountable to
the contemporary society and coming generations. the r&d department at hcc is driving
its efforts with this motif.

vision and mission

the vision of the r&d department is to assist hcc become a world-class, cost-effective
construction leader. through controlled proactive and responsive undertakings vis-à-vis
construction research and technological development, the r&d department aims to
continually reinforce and strengthen the organization’s ability to meet the current and
future construction challenges.

one of the internationally acknowledged visions that the r&d department is trying to
cultivate is the vision 2025 of the american society of civil engineers (asce):

                                the vision for civil engineering in 2025

                           entrusted by society to create a sustainable world
                                  and enhance the global quality of life,
                           civil engineers serve competently, collaboratively,
                                         and ethically as master:

                           · planners, designers, constructors, and
                                operators of society’s economic and social
                                engine--the built environment;
                           ·   stewards of the natural environment and its
                                resources;
                           ·   innovators and integrators of ideas and
                                technology across the public, private, and
                                academic sectors;
                           ·   managers of risk and uncertainty caused by
                                 natural events, accidents, and other threats;
                                 and
                           ·   leaders in discussions and decisions shaping
                                 public environmental and infrastructure
                                 policy.



in order to meet these goals, we have envisaged embarking upon a seven-fold action plan
that will help us develop these core abilities:




                                                                                          88

 develop a world-class research and technology program

 promote and demonstrate sustainable technology leadership

 facilitate technology transfer

 develop scholarship

 nurture fellowship and outreach

 professional practice and perpetual improvement

 knowledge management



concrete life cycle and its stages: building through an example

concrete is one of the most widely used construction materials. while the availability of
raw materials is rapidly depleting, the capability of existing processes to recycle materials
has remained constant or is not rapidly evolving. the national ready-mixed concrete
association (nrmca) of usa envisions the transformation of the built environment by
improving the way concrete is manufactured and used, in order to achieve an optimum
balance among environmental, social and economic conditions. a structured approach to
overcome this sustainability challenge is to individually address the various lifecycle of
concrete, as shown in the figure below:


                                                            minimize
                                                           energy use



                                         increase
                                          recycle      core line of            reduce
                                                                             emmisssions
                                         content       actions for
                                                       sustainable
                                                        concrete



                                                minimize                conserve
                                                 waste                   water




hcc has begun to embrace such concepts and inducing them in live projects in a phased
manner. following are some of the sustainability strategies our r&d department has been
actively pursuing:




                                                                                            89

   ·   improved concreting practices that eliminate one or two steps completely, leading
       to reduced energy consumption. example alternative concreting ways for dam
       concrete.
   ·   enhanced use of supplementary cementitious materials such as polycarboxylate
       based water reducers.
   ·   judicious selection of equipment for aggregates and their optimal use in concrete.
   ·   concreting that require less curing by balancing between strength gain rate and
       specifications.
   ·   judicious use of chemical admixtures through research and development.
   ·   recycling of concrete and asphalt pavements.
   ·   use of large volumes of pond ash for embankment construction and sub-grade
       stabilization.
   ·   alternative additive materials that reduce section thicknesses while improving the
       performance - and hence the life - of structure.


research & development collaborations
we gain r&d insights and foresights through our close and active associations, partnering
and participation in various national and international industry dialogues.

procuring value

with dramatic changes in the nature of construction technology, it will become critical for
suppliers and manufacturers to propose value-added products and services. hence a part
of our r&d efforts involve the procurement of such ‘value additions’ through coordinated
and planned partnerships with our suppliers. some of the strategies under consideration
include alternative concrete placement techniques, advanced concrete proportioning
methods, alternative and sustainable pavement designs, soil stabilization strategies, and
construction equipment modifications tailored for specific applications.

academic dialogue

as a structured part of our overall research efforts, the r&d department carries out active
academic and research dialogue on concrete technology, technology management and
alternative construction methodologies.

one such event was an industry-academia workshop hosted by hcc in february 2011. the
day-long interaction, the first of its kind to be held in india, brought together leading
experts from both the academic and industry community on a common platform and
offered fresh perspectives on a range of issues related to concrete science and technology.

the discussions were held under six broad themes ─ educational needs of industry and
academia, fundamental research, applied research, domestic and international
collaborations, ongoing research in the industry and industry research needs. reputed
faculty members from the indian institutes of technologies (iits), the indian institute of
science (iisc), bangalore and howard university, usa as well as eminent industry
researchers participated in this event.

                                                                                             90

some of the key outcomes of the discussions include: identification of key areas of basic
and applied concrete research over the next five years, identification of research areas
where industry and academia can collaborate, the need for enhancing industry-academic
interaction through internships, sabbatical research leaves for faculty members, instituting
industrial professorships and sponsored research. to ensure an ongoing engagement and
continuation of such a novel effort, a second meeting on similar lines will be organized by
the iit, kanpur in august 2011.

international conversations

internationally, construction companies, engineering organizations, professional societies
and standardizing bodies are rapidly assimilating sustainability as a key organizational
attribute. at hcc, we firmly believe that benchmarking and learning from international
practices is a critical and sustainable way of learning “best practices”.

as a part of endeavor, hcc has become member of the massachusetts institute of
technology (mit) - led industrial liaison program. the department of civil engineering at
the mit is home to the ‘concrete sustainability hub’, which has been primarily created
through industry-academic collaboration. the primary goal of this interdisciplinary center
is to accelerate emerging breakthroughs in concrete science and engineering and
transferring that science into practice.

in addition, we also regularly invite international experts to address various gatherings as
part of our sustainable capacity building efforts. such dialogues provide a critical
international flavor and insight to our initiatives.

through sustained efforts driven by the objective of establishing sustainable overall
competitiveness, the culture of focused research and development are taking deeper roots
into hcc’s culture.




                                                                                           91

intellectual property
the world intellectual property day was celebrated on april 26, 2011 to highlight the role
of design in the market-place, in society and in shaping the innovations of the future. the
designing function at hcc is shifting the focus from designing for technological
possibilities to designing with an emphasis on ecologically sound living. “designing out
waste” is becoming an inspiration shared by many creators. sustainable design processes
can help lower production costs and reduce environmental impact. this is possible only by
critically analyzing, and innovating, in all processes, bringing in new technologies and
equipments that will improve productivity and quality. hcc has so far completed the
formalities under the patents act 1970 on the following inventions, which are currently
under examination by the patent office:

1) pipe joint leak testing device
2) a system for automatic accounting of fluids in a vessel, container or tank
3) new capping system for testing concrete and rock cores
4) system and method for online monitoring of fuel consumption in automobiles
5) system and method for detecting trespassing below a parked vehicle
6) geo-textile sand container mattresses (gscm) lining for temporary river bed diversion
   channels.

sustainable living means designing that takes into account life cycle cost analysis. with the
establishment of our new innovention and r&d framework, hcc has bright chances of
filing many more patent applications. the underlying basis for hcc’s technology efforts is
to create improvements that our country can be proud of. some of the ways in which is
being addressed include sustainable use of construction materials, local energy generation,
and use of better technologies to improve productivity. to make this happen, hcc
encourages all its employees to actively participate in innovention and r&d activities and
come up with high-value and high-impact innovations.


    case study: ip protection at aditya aluminum project (orissa)

challenges:

a total of 180 potshells were required to be delivered within a time-frame of 15 months for
the aluminum smelter project. as per the contract, the design drawings for these potshells
were to be released to hcc after the client confirmed compliance to hcc’s intellectual
property documents protection setup. our challenge was to implement the solution within
45 days and get required compliance confirmation from the client.

business need:

some of the key client requirements are summarized below:
· a clear audit trail for all the documents. the requirement was so stringent that the client
  also wanted to trace how many printouts were fired for each document and who all have
  access to them.


                                                                                           92

    · to prevent leakage of information from the end-points of desktop/laptop, the desktop and
      laptop needed to be protected for information leakage.

    · this setup had to be isolated from rest of the computer network. only one system in that
      setup should have access to email, while rest of the services like ftp, telnet, remote
      desktop, network sharing had to be blocked.

    · all data pertaining to intellectual property should not be allowed to be stored on local
      desktops.

    · audit trails on who accessed the yellow rooms where the documents were generated and
      printed.


    solutions implemented:

·   in order to generate audit trails for the documents, hcc implemented seclore information
    rights management solution with plug-ins for autocad to protect the drawings. it also
    provided protection for ms word excel, powerpoint, text and jpeg. the concept of seclore
    hot folder was also implemented and policies were created for the use of these folders. the
    strength of this software was that the moment any user stores or creates a document in
    that folder, the policy gets applied to that document. with the help of information rights
    management, control was applied to the edit, copy and print functions on the contents of
    the documents.

·   on the perimeter security for the network, we implemented firewall and network access
    control so that only registered mac address of the pc can only access this network.
    services like ftp, telnet and remote desktop were also controlled with the implementation
    of firewall and network access control. we implemented end point protection to control
    the usage of usb, bluetooth and ir devices. the software also was able to capture snapshot
    of the prints taken from the machine. for server authentication, we implemented the rsa 2
    factor authentication manger for login and logout processes. a system idle time-out policy
    was also defined for desktops and laptops.

·   an access control system which monitors and controls access to these rooms.

·   when certain documents were shared with the client manager for approval, its usage was
    controlled by specifying a document expiry, so that they automatically expire after the
    timeline pre-defined on the server.

    we successfully met the stringent client compliance for ip protection of the design drawings
    by implementing the above solutions.




                                                                                                 93

other group companies


hcc infrastructure company ltd.

a wholly owned subsidiary of hcc ltd., hcc infrastructure is committed to serving
society’s need for sustainable and quality infrastructure development.

since its inception in 2007-08, hcc infrastructure has created a concessions portfolio of
assets worth rs. 5,539 crore. the assets under management include six national highways
authority of india (nhai) road concessions, of which two are operational. these are the
delhi faridabad elevated expressway (nh-2) (dfskywaytm ) and the nirmal (nbl) annuity
(nh-7). assets under development include the dhule palesner (dptl) highway project (nh-
3) and the west bengal (nh-34) highway project.

in addition to its maturing transportation business, hcc infrastructure is also actively
pursuing new business opportunities in power, water, city gas distribution, airports and
urban transport sectors. hcc expects to build a diversified infrastructure asset portfolio in
the coming years.

to achieve high returns on equity while effectively managing risk and maximizing free cash
flow, hcc infrastructure adopts a disciplined and patient investment strategy
complemented by top class construction execution and operations and maintenance (o&m).
each of hcc’s projects meets a high hurdle rate of return, with significant upside
characteristics. the company has also partnered with leading global developers and o&m
providers to bring world-class systems and best practices to india. the company has made
the requisite strategic and financial tie-ups to achieve its growth objectives. during the
year ended 31st march, 2011, the equity holding in various road concession spvs has also
been consolidated to facilitate future fund-raising.


hcc real estate

hcc real estate aims to develop and execute unique high value projects that would help
build sustained communities across india. given the market uncertainties in the indian real
estate sector, especially in the commercial segment, hcc has adopted a cautious approach
in growing the real estate business. the focus has been on consolidating its position in
respect of land titles and other documentation for the land held by the company.

247 park, built by hcc real estate in vikhroli (west) mumbai, has achieved more than 90%
occupancy. during 2010-11, the company converted its partnership firm vikhroli
corporate park into a company called vikhroli corporate park pvt. ltd. (vcppl). in july
2010, vcppl issued further shares to il&fs milestone real estate fund. consequently,
hcc group’s stake has reduced to 26%.

247 park continued to receive awards and recognition in 2010-11, including the
’excellence in commercial segment’ award in the ‘safety norms’ category by the economic
times acetech.

                                                                                           94

hcc real estate has undertaken development of a land parcel owned by hcc at hariyali
village in vikhroli (e), mumbai. this parcel was declared a slum under the slum
rehabilitation act of 1973. the company is developing it through panchkutir developers
ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of hcc. consent has been received from more than 70% of
slum dwellers for the development, and the necessary documentation has been filed with
the statutory authorities seeking an approval for the development on this parcel.

as an extension to the real estate portfolio, hcc had made investments in developing
vineyard near nashik. during 2010-11, the company has decided to go slow in acquiring
further land at charosa wineries and the focus is on developing the existing asset. the
company also got an approval under the bombay tenancy and agricultural lands act of
1948 declaring the charosa wineries project as ‘wine tourism’. this will allow the
development of a separate stream of business from the property.


integrated urban development and management – lavasa

as free india’s planned hill city, lavasa offers a wide range of residential and commercial
facilities, tie-ups with premier, national and international educational institutions, an
extensive range of tourist activities, family entertainment opportunities and several
business avenues across a range of industries. 2010-11 saw several developments at
lavasa.

in the hospitality space, accor hospitality launched two of its brands including the mercure
lavasa and the 1500 plenary capacity lavasa international convention centre. novotel
and pullman, also accor brands are in the process of being built, while hilton, comfort inn,
days inn, oakwood, jukaso, langham place and eaton, amongst others, are slated to
follow in quick succession.

on the retail front, a significant area has already been leased. restaurants like american
diner, granma’s homemade patisserie, brewberrys -the coffee bar, chor bizzare, subway
and oriental octopus, past times pub, tabakh, pizzavala, hungry hippo and fruity bat
have commenced operations.

on the education front, 2010-11 saw the launch of christel house lavasa. ecole hoteliere
lavasa started its second batch and academic certification from ecole hoteliere lausanne
has now been received to conduct masters programs. next in the pipeline this year for
opening is le mont high school lavasa by educomp for an ib school and eurokids and birla
edutech with primary and pre-primary schools. professional and executive education took
off at lavasa in a big way with massachusetts institute of technology (mit) having
conducted their first program on airport and airline systems, planning and management.

my city technology, a company promoted by lavasa, cisco and wipro to develop it
infrastructure, also began its operations in 2010-11.

there was continuous stress on creating awareness through marketing initiatives,
primarily by exposing the city to a wider audience through events. a television series called


                                                                                              95

‘urban longings’ was aired to highlight the need for planned new cities. this was
supplemented by a series of articles by personalities like dr. apj abdul kalam, who shared
their ideas of a ‘future city’. events like ‘literature live’ and lavasa mifta awards brought
the city closer to arts and culture. the ‘city planning and governance summit’ in
november 2010 brought international experts on city governance and sustainability to
lavasa, where they shared their expertise with the delegates.

on the sales front, the company has sold out all the residential units in dasve and
handover of the units commenced in the first quarter of 2010. total corporate land sales to
institutions has been over 244.11 acres and leased area is 43 acres. prominent names like
state bank of india, birla edutech, ryan international, euro school, ab hotels (radisson)
among others are the buyers/ lessees. the company also leased out 39,784 sq ft of
office space in the first commercial building at dasve named 247 business square.

while operational progress was on track, construction operations have been stalled since
25th november, 2010, after the ministry of environment and forests (moef) issued ‘stop-
work’ notice to the company for alleged violation of environmental norms. there continues
to be some policy confusion, unclear interpretation of terms and the matter remains sub-
judice. hcc is confident that a solution to this matter will be in place in the near future.


karl steiner ag, switzerland

in may 2010, hcc through its wholly owned subsidiary hcc mauritius enterprises limited
acquired a controlling interest in karl steiner ag, switzerland (ksag). with the
subscription of newly issued shares of ksag in consideration for a chf 35 million cash
investment, hcc now owns 66% stake in ksag. the acquisition of ksag is the company’s
first international acquisition and provides hcc with access to a rich experience of
constructing world-class integrated buildings.

ksag is a leading general contracting company in switzerland, specialized in turnkey
development of new buildings and refurbishments, and offers services in all facets of real
estate development and construction. as per the acquisition agreement, in 2014, ksag’s
sole minority shareholder will sell his remaining shares to the company at a pre-agreed
price based on ksag’s earnings achieved between 2010 and 2013.

pursuant to the consolidated igaap financial statement of ksag, the revenue of ksag
amounted to chf 597.40 million and the profit before tax amounted to chf 2.32 million in
the period from 5th may, 2010 (date of acquisition of ksag) to 31st march, 2011 (11
months).

during 2010-11, ksag signed two big projects in switzerland: project skykey, a large
scale commercial building, and project urbahn, an integrated development project, with
contract values of chf 265 million and chf 107 million respectively. in march 2011, the
order backlog of ksag amounted to chf 1,018 million.

in addition, ksag has been awarded 6 contracts with a value of chf 410 million, for which
contracts are yet to be signed. these contracts are expected to be signed during 2011-12.


                                                                                           96

during 2010-11, ksag has re-organized its operations. in order to effectively monitor its
business, switzerland’s east region has been divided into two regions, namely, the region
‘centre’ and the region ‘east’. ksag has created central functions, such as the technical
department, procurement and monitoring to support projects with their expertise.


highbar technologies

to leverage the expertise developed in providing in-house it services and cater to the it
needs of the construction industry, on 1st april, 2010, hcc hived off its it department into
a separate company called highbar technologies. the core team comprises it and
infrastructure professionals who have amalgamated the legacy of domain knowledge in the
infrastructure business with information technology. highbar focuses on it implementation
initiatives from a business transformation perspective rather than technology
implementation perspective.

in its very first year of operations, highbar was able to compete against well-established
industry players to serve 17 new customers. with this, the total customer base increased
to 43. a testimony of highbar’s delivery capabilities is the fact that it continues to secure
repeat business and customers on reference. to extend its footprints to the infrastructure
industry in the middle east, highbar technologies has incorporated a subsidiary in dubai,
named ‘highbar technologies fz-llc’. highbar has also bagged its first customer in the
middle east. highbar technologies has developed a strategic alliance with sap as ‘service
partner’. gartner, the world’s leading it research and advisory company, recognizes
highbar as ‘vendors to watch’ in indian erp space and attributes its rapid growth to domain
capability and knowledge.

highbar continues to support hcc in its it usage. today, the sap erp is well established in
hcc’s engineering and construction division at the corporate head office and in 61
projects, as well as in group companies and subsidiaries including hcc infrastructure, hcc
real estate and lavasa corporation. sap document management system (dms) is now
operational at nine critical departments within hcc. more than 300 vendors including
suppliers, sub-contractors, transporters and service providers use the supplier portal for
collaborating and transacting with hcc on a daily basis.

hcc implemented sap crm for enabling a better hit ratio, increased market share and
better profit margins, in january 2011. this will provide integrated information
management between sales, business development, regional offices and marketing for
bringing efficiency in the business processes. to ensure sustained productivity advantage,
an “online time cycle monitoring system” has been put in place, which improves
efficiencies of cyclical processes of construction operations and is being used across 13
project sites. an ‘innovention’ portal has also been launched to promote innovation at hcc.

all the it applications are supported at the back end by a rugged and scalable it
infrastructure comprising state-of-the-art wide area network and a well connected data
centre. it systems for the newly acquired company karl steiner ag are also in the process
of getting integrated with the overall hcc group it architecture.



                                                                                            97

disclosures on management approach


economic indicators

hcc operates a portfolio of diverse but integrated businesses, each having different
markets, requiring different skill sets and operating under varying risk return profiles. the
entire gamut of activities is unified under the hcc value chain. engineering and
construction, our core business, focuses on transportation, water solutions, hydro power
and nuclear power projects.

as part of our growth strategy, our business has been extended to offering complete
engineering, procurement and construction (epc) services, a delivery model that the
company is looking to strengthen further. we have tied up with international players to win
strategic projects in the epc space, including those in the emerging business lines.

the past year witnessed a slowdown in new project development in the construction
sector. inflationary pressure, high input costs and interest costs, environmental and safety
concerns about planned projects, and regulatory uncertainties were other factors that
affected our financial performance.

we have robust controls in place at the board of directors and management levels to
monitor and effectively supervise our financial reporting, risk management and business
planning. the board of directors play an active role in fulfilling its fiduciary obligations to
shareholders by efficiently overseeing management functions to ensure their effectiveness
in delivering shareholder value. the management assumes overall responsibility for
developing the company’s strategic goals and executing the functional operations of the
business. this governance framework is made effective through an efficient system of
timely disclosures and transparent business practices.

we have established a well-documented and robust risk management framework. under
this framework, risks are identified across all business processes of the company on a
continuous basis. once identified, each risk is mapped to the concerned department for
further action. the framework consists of various specified procedures to manage our
risks.

it is our continuous endeavor to source our suppliers and workforce from the local
communities surrounding our project sites thereby contributing to local economical well-
being.


environmental indicators

given our commitment to build responsible infrastructure, one of our major sustainability
priorities is to design and build structures in an environmentally responsible manner. the
hcc corporate environmental policy clearly conveys our commitment of improving our
performance on various environmental aspects such as prevention and control of pollution,


                                                                                             98

waste minimization, conservation of natural resources, compliance of all applicable
environmental regulations, and creation of environmental awareness.

our integrated management system (ims) adheres to the requirements of iso 14001:
2004 environmental management systems, iso 9001: 2008 quality management systems,
and bs ohsas 18001: 2007 occupational, health and safety systems. during november-
december 2010, m/s. tuv nord, the certifying agency, conducted a recertification audit
to verify the status of our compliance to the requirements of these standards. the hcc
management system comprises of a number of policies and procedures that are regularly
revised by our top management, and communicated to and implemented across all our
project locations.

given the fact construction activity is water and natural resource-intensive, continued
availability of high-quality, low-cost and locally-sourced supply of raw materials will
become a critical challenge in the future. since we execute large and technically complex
construction projects in geographically challenging locations, we also recognize the impact
of unpredictable weather-related events (such as drought, cyclones, etc) arising due to the
global climate change on our operations as a major environmental risk going forward.

reduction in the water consumption at our project sites annually by ten percent is one of
our major environmental goals. it is in line with our ultimate objective of achieving water-
neutrality and is strongly supported by our top decision-makers. we are in the process of
introducing water flow meters across our project sites in order to measure and track our
water consumption footprint. our commitment to water sustainability is further
exemplified by the third successful communication on progress (cop-water) we published
in 2011 to meet our un global compact ceo water mandate obligations.

we have also introduced several changes in our materials procuring practices to ensure
optimal use of critical natural resources. the material and cost savings thus realized are
being recorded and tracked by our procurement department. use of latest technology and
engineering innovations developed through our employee-driven innovention forum further
help us meet our goal of reuse and recycling of our materials. environmental, health and
safety awareness has become a major area of focus in our workforce training programs
across all project sites. structured training modules, dedicated in-house and external
faculty, and pre- and post-testing of employees ensure the effectiveness of our training
programs.


labor practices, decent work and human rights indicators

we are committed to the creation and retention of a world-class workforce to help us in our
mission of building responsible infrastructure in the country.

learning and development continues to be our focus area in our human resources policies.
in addition to organizing in-house customized programs in focus areas, teams were
nominated for national and international level seminars for skill and knowledge
enhancement. we continue to focus on bringing in talent into the organization at the
project and corporate levels. a recruitment tracking tool has also been developed to


                                                                                           99

streamline the manpower budgeting and approval process. in addition, a planned
performance management process was implemented and concluded in the reporting year.

we attach the utmost importance to the occupational health and safety of our employees
and project sites. in the past year, we enhanced our safety and health related trainings at
all our project sites for our employees, contract workers and also members of the
surrounding communities. our emphasis on creating safe and healthy workplaces has
earned us numerous accolades and recognitions in the past year. we are committed to
achieve our stated corporate goal of zero reportable injury across all our operations.

we are committed to fair labor practices and are in compliance with all local laws and
industry best practices. respect for diversity and human rights is intrinsic to our company
philosophy and culture. in this regard, we go beyond legal requirements and follow global
best practices, including the un global compact on principle of labor standards and human
rights. we follow a zero-tolerance approach on employee discrimination and child labor
issues. to this end, we strictly enforce the age verification of all our employees and
contract laborers at all our project sites.


society indicators

at hcc, business goes beyond efficient project execution. our corporate social
responsibility (csr) activities build an important bridge between business operations and
social commitments that help us in our mission of responsible infrastructure development.

in the past year, we continued with our long tradition of contributing to and investing in
communities around our project sites. our csr initiatives fall under the five categories of
education, hiv/aids awareness, water conservation, disaster response and community
development. our community development initiatives are managed at the project level
while the other four csr mandates are managed at the enterprise level and have specified
goals and targets. we continually refine our csr efforts by assessing the effectiveness of
our ongoing initiatives and carrying out needs-assessment in the communities we serve.

our csr commitment was amply reflected in the disaster response and rebuilding efforts
carried out by our workforce in the wake of the leh floods in the past year. we were also
part of the steering committee in the creation disaster resource partnerships – built on
the drn model - a new private-public partnership model for disaster response.

as part of our hiv/aids workplace intervention program, we have created an expanded
pool of trained master trainer and peer educator pools in the past year. this has helped us
internalize our employee sensitization and training needs.

in line with our organizational ethics, we continue to proactively reinforce anti-corruption
and anti-competitive behavior and comply with all relevant legal requirements in this
respect.

we recognize the importance of joint efforts through collective action, and have
historically played a role in the public policy arena. in the past reporting year, we were


                                                                                             100

involved in thought leadership, articulation of ideas and promotion of actions in partnership
with the civil society, regulatory agencies, corporate groups and the academia. we also
participated in various policy advocacy forums at the local, national and international
levels.


product responsibility indicators

although we do not have any direct impacts on our customers through our products and
services, we are committed to the creation of responsible and high-quality infrastructure
for all end users. we continually engage with our customers to understand their
expectations and gain feedback to ensure customer satisfaction.

our projects are in compliance with all relevant statutory requirements and best industry
practices pertaining to workplace health and safety

over the past year, an international firm was engaged to study our project management
functions and recommended best-in-class processes. they have concluded the study and
relevant recommendations are being implemented in our pilot projects.

we continue with our initiatives to enhance and promote the ‘hcc’ brand and its associated
values. in the reporting year, our brand had significant presence in about 15 key business
and industry events and expositions, where we showcased our wide ranging expertise and
experience. we have also engaged a leading brand consultant to develop a special brand
engagement program which will involve all company staff in taking ownership of the brand
and assimilating the brand values.

in continuing with our close customer engagement, we carried out a comprehensive survey
of about fifty current and prospective clients across various business sectors in the
reporting year. this ‘voice of customer’ program helped us understand the various
customer concerns about project implementation and other industry issues. the survey
revealed an overall good perception of the hcc brand among our existing clients. it also
gave us a good idea of the future business potential and infrastructure development
activity expected to happen in the next few years. the feedback so received is being
actively taken into consideration while developing our organizational business strategy.

we have also adopted a concept of ‘cycle time monitoring’ so as to continually monitor the
performance of the projects and take appropriate mid-term course corrections.




                                                                                         101

                                            g3 content index
    application level a+                           assured by ernst & young (india)pvt. ltd.
                                            1. strategy and analysis
profile      description          reported     cross-reference /      if applicable,      reason     explanation
disclosure                                     direct answer          indicate the part   for
                                                                      not reported        omission

   1.1       statement from         fully      4                                                     from the
             the most senior                                                                         chairman
             decision-maker of                                                                       and
             the organization.                                                                       managing
                                                                                                     director’s
                                                                                                     desk
   1.2       description of key     fully      4 – 8, 40 (risk                                       dwelt upon in
             impacts, risks,                   management)                                           the “from the
             and opportunities.                                                                      chairman
                                                                                                     and
                                                                                                     managing
                                                                                                     director’s
                                                                                                     desk” section
                                                                                                     and risk
                                                                                                     management
                                            2. organizational profile
   2.1       name of the            fully      hindustan
             organization.                     construction
                                               company
   2.2       primary brands,        fully      11-12
             products, and/or                  (organizational
             services.                         profile), 13
                                               (business lines
                                               under e&c)
   2.3       operational            fully      11-12
             structure of the                  (organizational
             organization,                     profile), 13
             including main                    (business lines
             divisions,                        under e&c), 95
             operating                         (other group
             companies,                        companies - hcc
             subsidiaries, and                 infrastructure and
             joint ventures.                   hcc real estate)
                                               96 (lavasa), 97
                                               (karl steiner ag),
                                               98 (highbar
                                               technologies)
   2.4       location of            fully      back cover
             organization's
             headquarters.
   2.5       number of              fully      the projects in
             countries where                   scope are located in
             the organization                  india and bhutan
             operates, and                     only
             names of
             countries with
             either major
             operations or that
             are specifically
             relevant to the
             sustainability

                                                                                                             102

       issues covered in
       the report.
2.6    nature of             fully     18
       ownership and
       legal form.
2.7    markets served        fully     11- 13
       (including
       geographic
       breakdown,
       sectors served,
       and types of
       customers/benefic
       iaries).
2.8    scale of the          fully     42 (under economic
       reporting                       performance), 43
       organization.                   (under market
                                       capitalization), 69
                                       (under employees).
                                       for further details,
                                       please refer our
                                       annual report
                                       available at
                                       http://www.hccindia.
                                       com/hcc_admin/dat
                                       a_content/invester_
                                       pdf/annual_report_
                                       2010-11.pdf - pg.
                                       21 (under financial
                                       review, pg. 41
                                       (under
                                       dematerialization of
                                       shares & liquidity),
                                       pg. 43 (under
                                       details regarding
                                       listing &
                                       redemption of debt
                                       securities), pg. 82-
                                       83 (under balance
                                       sheet), pg. 102
                                       (under cash flow
                                       statement)
2.9    significant           fully     no significant
       changes during                  changes in the
       the reporting                   reporting entity,
       period regarding                including
       size, structure, or             ownership, during
       ownership.                      the reporting period
2.10   awards received       fully     24
       in the reporting
       period.
                                     3. report parameters
3.1    reporting period      fully     1st april 2010 to
       (e.g.,                          31st march 2011
       fiscal/calendar
       year) for
       information
       provided.
3.2    date of most          fully     2009-10
       recent previous
       report (if any).
3.3    reporting cycle       fully     annual


                                                              103

      (annual, biennial,
      etc.)
3.4   contact point for     fully   3
      questions
      regarding the
      report or its
      contents.
3.5   process for           fully   20 (projects in
      defining report               scope), 35
      content.                      (materiality)
3.6   boundary of the       fully   3,11- 13
      report (e.g.,
      countries,
      divisions,
      subsidiaries,
      leased facilities,
      joint ventures,
      suppliers). see
      gri boundary
      protocol for
      further guidance.
3.7   state any specific    fully   exclusion of specific
      limitations on the            projects/ locations/
      scope or                      entities mentioned
      boundary of the               throughout the
      report (see                   report wherever
      completeness                  applicable
      principle for
      explanation of
      scope).
3.8   basis for reporting   fully   11 – 13, 20
      on joint ventures,            (disclaimer given
      subsidiaries,                 below the table)
      leased facilities,
      outsourced
      operations, and
      other entities that
      can significantly
      affect
      comparability from
      period to period
      and/or between
      organizations.
3.9   data                  fully   3
      measurement
      techniques and
      the bases of
      calculations,
      including
      assumptions and
      techniques
      underlying
      estimations
      applied to the
      compilation of the
      indicators and
      other information
      in the report.
      explain any
      decisions not to
      apply, or to
      substantially

                                                            104

       diverge from, the
       gri indicator
       protocols.
3.10   explanation of the    fully   during the reporting
       effect of any re-             period, there were
       statements of                 no mergers or
       information                   acquisitions and
       provided in earlier           thus no
       reports, and the              restatements to this
       reasons for such              effect.
       re-statement
       (e.g.,mergers/acq
       uisitions, change
       of base
       years/periods,
       nature of
       business,
       measurement
       methods).
3.11   significant           fully   11 – 13, 20
       changes from                  (disclaimer given
       previous reporting            below the table)
       periods in the
       scope, boundary,
       or measurement
       methods applied
       in the report.
3.12   table identifying     fully   103 - 127
       the location of the
       standard
       disclosures in the
       report.
3.13   policy and current    fully   3
       practice with
       regard to seeking
       external
       assurance for the
       report.
                      4. governance, commitments, and engagement
4.1    governance            fully   36 (board of
       structure of the              directors), 37 -39
       organization,                 (board meetings/
       including                     board level
       committees under              committees), for
       the highest                   details of the
       governance body               composition of the
       responsible for               board committees,
       specific tasks,               please refer our
       such as setting               annual report
       strategy or                   available at
       organizational                http://www.hccindia.
       oversight.                    com/hcc_admin/dat
                                     a_content/invester_
                                     pdf/annual_report_
                                     2010-11.pdf
4.2    indicate whether      fully   36
       the chair of the
       highest
       governance body
       is also an
       executive officer.

                                                                   105

4.3   for organizations     fully   36
      that have a unitary
      board structure,
      state the number
      of members of the
      highest
      governance body
      that are
      independent
      and/or non-
      executive
      members.
4.4   mechanisms for        fully   38 (shareholders/
      shareholders and              investor grievance
      employees to                  committee)
      provide
      recommendations
      or direction to the
      highest
      governance body.
4.5   linkage between       fully   no linkage at the
      compensation for              moment
      members of the
      highest
      governance body,
      senior managers,
      and executives
      (including
      departure
      arrangements),
      and the
      organization's
      performance
      (including social
      and environmental
      performance).
4.6   processes in          fully   37
      place for the
      highest
      governance body
      to ensure conflicts
      of interest are
      avoided.
4.7   process for           fully   currently there is no
      determining the               clear process for
      qualifications and            the board to guide
      expertise of the              the organization of
      members of the                esg issues
      highest
      governance body
      for guiding the
      organization's
      strategy on
      economic,
      environmental,
      and social topics.
4.8   internally            fully   21-22 (vision,
      developed                     mission, values)
      statements of                 37 (code of
      mission or values,            conduct)
      codes of conduct,
      and principles

                                                            106

       relevant to
       economic,
       environmental,
       and social
       performance and
       the status of their
       implementation.
4.9    procedures of the      fully   currently there is no
       highest                        defined oversight on
       governance body                our esg
       for overseeing the             performance by our
       organization's                 highest governance
       identification and             body
       management of
       economic,
       environmental,
       and social
       performance,
       including relevant
       risks and
       opportunities, and
       adherence or
       compliance with
       internationally
       agreed standards,
       codes of conduct,
       and principles.
4.10   processes for          fully   currently there is no
       evaluating the                 defined oversight on
       highest                        our esg
       governance                     performance by our
       body's own                     highest governance
       performance,                   body
       particularly with
       respect to
       economic,
       environmental,
       and social
       performance.
4.11   explanation of         fully   39                      last
       whether and how                                        paragraph
       the precautionary                                      under “risk
       approach or                                            managemen
       principle is                                           t’- reference
       addressed by the                                       to hirac
       organization.                                          methodology
4.12   externally             fully   39 – 40
       developed                      (management
       economic,                      systems)
       environmental,                 50 (un ceo water
       and social                     mandate)
       charters,                      57-58 (ungc
       principles, or other
       initiatives to which
       the organization
       subscribes or
       endorses.
4.13   memberships in         fully   23 (professional
       associations (such             memberships)
       as industry                    63 (cress
       associations)
       and/or

                                                                      107

            national/internatio
            nal advocacy
            organizations in
            which the
            organization: *
            has positions in
            governance
            bodies; *
            participates in
            projects or
            committees; *
            provides
            substantive
            funding beyond
            routine
            membership dues;
            or * views
            membership as
            strategic.

 4.14       list of stakeholder   fully   33-34
            groups engaged
            by the
            organization.
 4.15       basis for             fully   27
            identification and
            selection of
            stakeholders with
            whom to engage.
 4.16       approaches to         fully   33-34
            stakeholder
            engagement,
            including
            frequency of
            engagement by
            type and by
            stakeholder
            group.
 4.17       key topics and        fully   33-34
            concerns that
            have been raised
            through
            stakeholder
            engagement, and
            how the
            organization has
            responded to
            those key topics
            and concerns,
            including through
            its reporting.
        standard disclosures part ii: disclosures on management approach (dmas)
dma ec      disclosure on         fully    99 (ec dma)
            management
            approach ec
aspects     economic              fully    42 (details of
            performance                   economic
                                          performance),99
            market presence       fully    gri content
                                          index(standard
                                          disclosure-2.5),99


                                                                                  108

          indirect economic    fully      99                             our
          impacts                                                        spending on
                                                                         development
                                                                         of
                                                                         infrastructur
                                                                         e provided
                                                                         primarily for
                                                                         the public
                                                                         benefit was
                                                                         on need
                                                                         based
                                                                         interventions
                                                                         , determined
                                                                         locally at
                                                                         project sites.

dma en    disclosure on       partially   99-100 (en dma)
          management
          approach en
aspects   materials            fully      100                            conservatio
                                                                         n of natural
                                                                         resources

          energy               fully      99-100                         prevention &
                                                                         control of
                                                                         pollution;
                                                                         compliance
                                                                         to all
                                                                         applicable
                                                                         regulations;
                                                                         use of latest
                                                                         technology
                                                                         and
                                                                         engineering
                                                                         innovations;

          water                fully      100                            paragraph 3
                                                                         on page 100

          biodiversity          not                            not       none of our
                                                            applicable   activities,
                                                                         products,
                                                                         and services
                                                                         are
                                                                         recognized
                                                                         to have
                                                                         significant
                                                                         impacts on
                                                                         biodiversity
                                                                         in protected
                                                                         areas and
                                                                         areas of
                                                                         high
                                                                         biodiversity
                                                                         value
                                                                         outside
                                                                         protected
                                                                         areas.
          emissions,           fully      100
          effluents and
          waste


                                                                                  109

          products and        not                             not       as a
          services                                          reported    construction
                                                                        company,
                                                                        we do not
                                                                        manufacture
                                                                        any
                                                                        products.
                                                                        we have
                                                                        however
                                                                        included
                                                                        initiatives to
                                                                        use
                                                                        environment
                                                                        al friendly
                                                                        materials
                                                                        wherever
                                                                        possible.
                                                                        we do not
                                                                        sell any
                                                                        products
                                                                        directly to
                                                                        the
                                                                        consumers.
          compliance          fully   100                               first
                                                                        sentence on
                                                                        pg. 100
                                                                        followed by
                                                                        paragraph
                                                                        on ims
                                                                        systems

          transport           not                             not       employee
                                                            available   travel is
                                                                        being
                                                                        tracked and
                                                                        will be
                                                                        reported
                                                                        from the
                                                                        next
                                                                        reporting
                                                                        cycle
                                                                        2012
          overall             fully   99-100

dma la    disclosure on       fully   100-101
          management
          approach la
aspects   employment          fully   100

          labor/manageme      fully   69 (last paragraph-
          nt relations                workmen and
                                      collective
                                      bargaining rights)
          occupational        fully   101                               at the
          health and safety                                             project level,
                                                                        all hse
                                                                        committees
                                                                        have a 1:1
                                                                        managemen
                                                                        t: non-
                                                                        managemen
                                                                        t

                                                                                 110

                                                                              representati
                                                                              on as per
                                                                              the
                                                                              requirement
                                                                              s laid out in
                                                                              the
                                                                              factories
                                                                              act
          training and          fully      100
          education
          diversity and         fully      101 (last paragraph
          equal opportunity                in la dma)
dma hr    disclosure on        partially   100-101
          management
          approach hr
aspects   investment and        fully      100-101, currently,
          procurement                      our investment
          practices                        agreements do not
                                           human rights
                                           clauses (gri
                                           content index)
          non-                  fully      101
          discrimination
          freedom of             not                                not       none of our
          association and                                        applicable   operations
          collective                                                          run any risk
          bargaining                                                          to the right
                                                                              of freedom
                                                                              of
                                                                              association
                                                                              and
                                                                              collective
                                                                              bargaining
          child labor           fully      101

          forced and            fully      101 (adherence to
          compulsory labor                 ungc principle of
                                           labor standards)
          security practices    fully      101 , gri content                  our security
                                           index                              personnel
                                                                              enforce the
                                                                              checks at
                                                                              the gate at
                                                                              all our
                                                                              project sites
                                                                              for all
                                                                              employees
                                                                              and contract
                                                                              laborers
          indigenous rights      not                                not       our
                                                                 applicable   operations
                                                                              do not
                                                                              impinge on
                                                                              the rights of
                                                                              the
                                                                              indigenous
                                                                              people
dma so    disclosure on         fully      101-102 (so dma)
          management
          approach so



                                                                                       111

aspects   community           fully      101 and same page
                                         nos. as those
                                         mentioned against
                                         so 1 in gri
                                         content index
          corruption          fully      101 , pg. 37 (code      we have not
                                         of conduct),            analyzed
                                                                 any of our
                                                                 business
                                                                 units for
                                                                 corruption
                                                                 related risks
                                                                 and there
                                                                 were no
                                                                 instances of
                                                                 corruption in
                                                                 the
                                                                 organization
                                                                 during the
                                                                 reporting
                                                                 period
          public policy       fully      101-102

          anti-competitive    fully      101
          behavior
          compliance          fully      101

dma pr    disclosure on      partially   102
          management
          approach pr
aspects   customer health     fully      102 (first para under
          and safety                     pr dma)
          product and         fully      not applicable- gri     as a
          service labeling               content index           construction
                                                                 company,
                                                                 the product
                                                                 information
                                                                 related
                                                                 indicator is
                                                                 not relevant
                                                                 to us as we
                                                                 do not
                                                                 manufacture
                                                                 a ‘product’.

          marketing           fully      102 ( hcc brand         the
          communications                 guidelines)             corporate
                                                                 communicati
                                                                 ons
                                                                 practices of
                                                                 hcc
                                                                 conform to
                                                                 the laws and
                                                                 acts that
                                                                 govern
                                                                 corporate
                                                                 advertising,
                                                                 promotion
                                                                 and
                                                                 sponsorship




                                                                         112

      customer privacy     not                                    not       we do not
                                                               applicable   sell any
                                                                            products
                                                                            directly to
                                                                            the
                                                                            consumers.

      compliance           fully   102

             standard disclosures part iii: performance indicators
                                         economic
ec1   direct economic      fully   42
      value generated
      and distributed,
      including
      revenues,
      operating costs,
      employee
      compensation,
      donations and
      other community
      investments,
      retained earnings,
      and payments to
      capital providers
      and governments
ec2   financial            not                                   not        we have not
      implications and                                         available    yet
      other risks and                                                       quantified
      opportunities for                                                     the financial
      the organization's                                                    implications
      activities due to                                                     of climate
      climate change.                                                       change on
                                                                            our
                                                                            business.
                                                                            however,
                                                                            we have
                                                                            started to
                                                                            put systems
                                                                            in place to
                                                                            quantify the
                                                                            same. we
                                                                            have already
                                                                            started to
                                                                            track
                                                                            employee
                                                                            air- travel at
                                                                            head office.
                                                                            going
                                                                            ahead, we
                                                                            will work on

                                                                                     113

                                                           understandi
                                                           ng and
                                                           quantifying
                                                           the financial
                                                           impacts of
                                                           climate
                                                           change on
                                                           our
                                                           organization.
                                                           we plan to
                                                           report on
                                                           this indicator
                                                           by 2012


ec3   coverage of the      fully   70                      for details
      organization's                                       of the
      defined benefit                                      composition
      plan obligations.                                    of the board
                                                           committees,
                                                           please refer
                                                           our annual
                                                           report
                                                           available at
                                                           http://www.h
                                                           ccindia.com/
                                                           hcc_admin/d
                                                           ata_content/i
                                                           nvester_pdf/
                                                           annual_rep
                                                           ort_2010-
                                                           11.pdf
ec4   significant          fully   42 (assistance from
      financial                    export credit
      assistance                   agencies), we do
      received from                not receive
      government.                  significant financial
                                   assistance from the
                                   government. the
                                   government is not
                                   present in the
                                   shareholding
                                   structure
ec5   range of ratios of   fully   for all sites
      standard entry               reported on, we
      level wage                   have met or
      compared to local            exceeded the local
      minimum wage at              wage requirement.
      significant                  we have exceeded
      locations of                 by over 20% at 17
      operation.                   of our sites across
                                   skill levels.
ec6   policy, practices,   fully   43-44
      and proportion of
      spending on
      locally-based
      suppliers at
      significant
      locations of
      operation.



                                                                    114

ec7   procedures for         fully   99                    dwelt upon
      local hiring and                                     in the
      proportion of                                        disclosure
      senior                                               on
      management                                           managemen
      hired from the                                       t approach
      local community                                      ec
      at significant
      locations of
      operation.
ec8   development and        fully   84-85 (section        our
      impact of                      starting below the    spending on
      infrastructure                 pictures), gri        development
      investments and                content index         of
      services provided                                    infrastructur
      primarily for public                                 e provided
      benefit through                                      primarily for
      commercial, in-                                      the public
      kind, or probono                                     benefit was
      engagement.                                          on need
                                                           based
                                                           interventions
                                                           , determined
                                                           locally at
                                                           project sites.
ec9   understanding          not
      and describing
      significant indirect
      economic
      impacts, including
      the extent of
      impacts.
                                      environmental
en1   materials used by      fully   46
      weight or volume.
en2   percentage of          fully   46
      materials used
      that are recycled
      input materials.
en3   direct energy          fully   46-47, total energy
      consumption by                 consumption =
                                            8
      primary energy                 3.2*10 gj (all from
      source.                        non-renewable
                                     sources: energy
                                     from diesel =
                                     3.1*108 gj, energy
                                     from atf = 1.6*107
                                     gj)
en4   indirect energy        fully   46-47, electricity
      consumption by                 purchased from grid
      primary source.                = 9.2*104 gj (all
                                     indirect energy
                                     consumption from
                                     non-renewable
                                     sources)
en5   energy saved due       fully   47-48
      to conservation
      and efficiency
      improvements.
en6   initiatives to         not
      provide energy-

                                                                    115

       efficient or
       renewable energy
       based products
       and services, and
       reductions in
       energy
       requirements as a
       result of these
       initiatives.


en7    initiatives to        not
       reduce indirect
       energy
       consumption and
       reductions
       achieved.
en8    total water           fully   52
       withdrawal by
       source.
en9    water sources         not
       significantly
       affected by
       withdrawal of
       water.
en10   percentage and        fully   52
       total volume of
       water recycled
       and reused.
en11   location and size     fully   gri content index   none of our
       of land owned,                                    project sites
       leased, managed                                   qualify as
       in, or adjacent to,                               per stated
       protected areas                                   criteria
       and areas of high
       biodiversity value
       outside protected
       areas.
en12   description of        fully   gri content index   none of our
       significant impacts                               project sites
       of activities,                                    qualify as
       products, and                                     per stated
       services on                                       criteria
       biodiversity in
       protected areas
       and areas of high
       biodiversity value
       outside protected
       areas.
en13   habitats protected    not
       or restored.
en14   strategies, current   not
       actions, and future
       plans for
       managing impacts
       on biodiversity.
en15   number of iucn        not
       red list species
       and national
       conservation list
       species with
       habitats in areas

                                                                  116

       affected by
       operations, by
       level of extinction
       risk.
en16   total direct and      fully   47, gri content     using
       indirect                      index               emission
       greenhouse gas                                    factors
       emissions by                                      (ipcc
       weight.                                           guidelines)
                                                         for ghgs
                                                         (co2, ch4,
                                                         n2o) for
                                                         fuels used
                                                         (such as
                                                         atf,
                                                         diesel), we
                                                         have
                                                         established
                                                         the
                                                         emissions
                                                         from direct
                                                         energy
                                                         consumption
                                                         . for india,
                                                         an emission
                                                         factor of
                                                         0.81 tons
                                                         co2e per
                                                         mwh of
                                                         power
                                                         generated
                                                         has been
                                                         used for
                                                         establishing
                                                         the emission
                                                         for indirect
                                                         energy
                                                         consumption
                                                         , as per
                                                         unfccc
                                                         recommend
                                                         ation.
en17   other relevant        fully   gri content index   we plan to
       indirect                                          enhance our
       greenhouse gas                                    scope to
       emissions by                                      include air
       weight.                                           emissions
                                                         from
                                                         employee
                                                         travel going
                                                         forward. we
                                                         should be
                                                         able to track
                                                         this
                                                         successfully
                                                         by 2012.

en18   initiatives to        not
       reduce
       greenhouse gas
       emissions and
       reductions

                                                                 117

       achieved.
en19   emissions of         fully      gri content index                we do not
       ozone-depleting                                                  use any
       substances by                                                    ods
       weight.                                                          substances
                                                                        in our
                                                                        operations
en20   nox, sox, and        fully      gri content index                within
       other significant                                                stipulated
       air emissions by                                                 limits, but
       type and weight.                                                 exact values
                                                                        would be
                                                                        reported by
                                                                        2012
en21   total water         partially   gri content index                our water
       discharge by                                                     discharge at
       quality and                                                      all sites are
       destination.                                                     in
                                                                        accordance
                                                                        with the
                                                                        consented
                                                                        values,
                                                                        where
                                                                        specified by
                                                                        pollution
                                                                        control
                                                                        boards in
                                                                        'consent to
                                                                        operate' or
                                                                        water
                                                                        consents.
                                                                        this is
                                                                        allocated to
                                                                        us as per
                                                                        our planned
                                                                        water
                                                                        discharge
                                                                        we provide
                                                                        in
                                                                        applications
                                                                        as
                                                                        estimates.

                                                                        further,
                                                                        none of the
                                                                        water
                                                                        discharged
                                                                        from any of
                                                                        the hcc
                                                                        operations is
                                                                        reused by
                                                                        any other
                                                                        organization.
en22   total weight of     partial     48                     not        we do not
       waste by type and                                   applicable   report on
       disposal method.                                                 weight of all
                                                                        wastes since
                                                                        wastes such
                                                                        as tyres,
                                                                        cement
                                                                        bags,
                                                                        batteries,

                                                                                 118

                                                           non-refillable
                                                           containers
                                                           etc are
                                                           disposed off
                                                           through
                                                           waste
                                                           disposal
                                                           contractors
                                                           or stored
                                                           onsite until
                                                           responsible
                                                           disposal, are
                                                           not
                                                           reportable in
                                                           tonnes as
                                                           they are
                                                           counted as
                                                           numbers, or
                                                           measured
                                                           as volumes.
                                                           we comply
                                                           with all
                                                           relevant
                                                           regulations
                                                           with respect
                                                           to waste
                                                           disposal,
                                                           and the
                                                           actual
                                                           quantity
                                                           disposed is
                                                           tracked
                                                           regularly in
                                                           our systems.
en23   total number and        fully   gri content index   no
       volume of                                           significant
       significant spills.                                 spills in the
                                                           reporting
                                                           period
en24   weight of               not
       transported,
       imported,
       exported, or
       treated waste
       deemed
       hazardous under
       the terms of the
       basel convention
       annex i, ii, iii, and
       viii, and
       percentage of
       transported waste
       shipped
       internationally.
en25   identity, size,         not
       protected status,
       and biodiversity
       value of water
       bodies and related
       habitats
       significantly
       affected by the

                                                                    119

       reporting
       organization's
       discharges of
       water and runoff.
en26   initiatives to       fully   not applicable         not       as a
       mitigate                                         applicable   construction
       environmental                                                 company,
       impacts of                                                    we do not
       products and                                                  manufacture
       services, and                                                 any
       extent of impact                                              products.
       mitigation.                                                   we have
                                                                     however
                                                                     included
                                                                     initiatives to
                                                                     use
                                                                     environment
                                                                     al friendly
                                                                     materials
                                                                     wherever
                                                                     possible.
en27   percentage of        fully   not applicable         not       we do not
       products sold and                                applicable   sell any
       their packaging                                               products
       materials that are                                            directly to
       reclaimed by                                                  the
       category.                                                     consumers.
                                                                     we are a
                                                                     b2b
                                                                     company
en28   monetary value of    fully   gri content index                no such
       significant fines                                             fines or
       and total number                                              sanctions
       of non-monetary                                               during the
       sanctions for non-                                            reporting
       compliance with                                               period
       environmental
       laws and
       regulations.
en29   significant          not
       environmental
       impacts of
       transporting
       products and
       other goods and
       materials used for
       the organization's
       operations, and
       transporting
       members of the
       workforce.
en30   total                fully   48
       environmental
       protection
       expenditures and
       investments by
       type.




                                                                              120

                           social: labor practices and decent work
la1   total workforce by      fully   69-70                          given the
      employment type,                                               mobility of
      employment                                                     workforce
      contract, and                                                  across
      region.                                                        project sites,
                                                                     currently we
                                                                     have not
                                                                     reported on
                                                                     regional
                                                                     break up.
la2   total number and        fully   69-70                          given the
      rate of employee                                               mobility of
      turnover by age                                                workforce
      group, gender,                                                 across
      and region.                                                    project sites,
                                                                     currently we
                                                                     have not
                                                                     reported on
                                                                     regional
                                                                     break up.
la3   benefits provided       fully   70
      to full-time
      employees that
      are not provided
      to temporary or
      part-time
      employees, by
      major operations.
la4   percentage of           fully   69
      employees
      covered by
      collective
      bargaining
      agreements.
la5   minimum notice          fully   gri content                    no such
      period(s)                       index                          changes
      regarding                                                      during the
      significant                                                    reporting
      operational                                                    period.
      changes,                                                       as
      including whether                                              prescribed
      it is specified in                                             under the
      collective                                                     industrial
      agreements.                                                    disputes
                                                                     act, 1947,
                                                                     21 days
                                                                     notice period
                                                                     is given
la6   percentage of           fully   at the project
      total workforce                 level, all hse
      represented in                  committees have
      formal joint                    a 1:1
      management-                     management:
      worker health and               non-management
      safety committees               representation as
      that help monitor               per the
      and advise on                   requirements laid
      occupational                    out in the
      health and safety               factories act
      programs.


                                                                              121

la7    rates of injury,      fully   72-73
       occupational
       diseases, lost
       days, and
       absenteeism, and
       number of work-
       related fatalities
       by region.
la8    education,            fully   78-79         hiv aids
       training,                                   awareness
       counseling,
       prevention, and
       risk-control
       programs in place
       to assist
       workforce
       members, their
       families, or
       community
       members
       regarding serious
       diseases.
la9    health and safety     not
       topics covered in
       formal
       agreements with
       trade unions.
la10   average hours of      fully   73
       training per year
       per employee by
       employee
       category.
la11   programs for skills   fully   71
       management and
       lifelong learning
       that support the
       continued
       employability of
       employees and
       assist them in
       managing career
       endings.
la12   percentage of         fully   gri content   all
       employees                     index         permanent
       receiving regular                           employees
       performance and                             receive
       career                                      performance
       development                                 feedback
       reviews.                                    annually.

la13   composition of        fully   gri content   details on
       governance                    index         this are
       bodies and                                  provided in
       breakdown of                                the annual


                                                           122

       employees per                                        report. it
       category                                             can be
       according to                                         accessed on
       gender, age                                          http://www.
       group, minority                                      hccindia.co
       group                                                m/hcc_admi
       membership, and                                      n/data_cont
       other indicators of                                  ent/invester_
       diversity.                                           pdf/annual_
                                                            report_201
                                                            0-11.pdf.
                                                            minority
                                                            group
                                                            representati
                                                            on is not
                                                            undertaken.
la14   ratio of basic        fully     gri content          no
       salary of men to                index                discriminatio
       women by                                             n in
       employee                                             remuneratio
       category.                                            n of
                                                            employees
                                                            based on
                                                            gender. this
                                                            is a part of
                                                            our code of
                                                            conduct.
                                     social: human rights
hr1    percentage and        fully     gri content index    currently,
       total number of                                      our
       significant                                          investment
       investment                                           agreements
       agreements that                                      do not
       include human                                        human
       rights clauses or                                    rights
       that have                                            clauses.
       undergone human
       rights screening.
hr2    percentage of         fully     gri content index    we have not
       significant                                          conducted
       suppliers and                                        any human
       contractors that                                     rights
       have undergone                                       assessment
       screening on                                         of our
       human rights and                                     suppliers
       actions taken.                                       and
                                                            contractors
                                                            so far.
hr3    total hours of        not
       employee training
       on policies and
       procedures
       concerning
       aspects of human
       rights that are
       relevant to
       operations,
       including the
       percentage of
       employees
       trained.


                                                                    123

hr4   total number of        fully   gri content index                  no incidents
      incidents of                                                      of
      discrimination and                                                discriminatio
      actions taken.                                                    n have been
                                                                        reported
                                                                        during the
                                                                        reporting
                                                                        period.
hr5   operations             fully   not applicable           not       none of our
      identified in which                                  applicable   operations
      the right to                                                      run this risk
      exercise freedom
      of association and
      collective
      bargaining may be
      at significant risk,
      and actions taken
      to support these
      rights.
hr6   operations             fully   101 (disclosure to                 our
      identified as                  management                         contracts
      having significant             approach la – last                 forbid child
      risk for incidents             paragraph before                   labor while
      of child labor, and            society indicators)                hiring labor
      measures taken to                                                 at sites.
      contribute to the                                                 further,
      elimination of child                                              there are
      labor.                                                            checks at
                                                                        every site at
                                                                        the entry
                                                                        point. when
                                                                        suspected,
                                                                        identity proof
                                                                        is asked for.
hr7   operations             fully   101
      identified as
      having significant
      risk for incidents
      of forced or
      compulsory labor,
      and measures to
      contribute to the
      elimination of
      forced or
      compulsory labor.
hr8   percentage of          not
      security personnel
      trained in the
      organization's
      policies or
      procedures
      concerning
      aspects of human
      rights that are
      relevant to
      operations.
hr9   total number of        not
      incidents of
      violations

                                                                                 124

      involving rights of
      indigenous people
      and actions taken.
                                     social: society
so1   nature, scope,        fully   8 (second last          during
      and effectiveness             paragraph - from        operations,
      of any programs               the cmd’s desk for      apart from
      and practices that            entry and operation     our flagship
      assess and                    strategy).              programs of
      manage the                    for operations- 64-     hiv/ aids
      impacts of                    65 (water initiatives   awareness
      operations on                 at kihim)               and drn, as
      communities,                  77 (5 areas of          mentioned in
      including entering,           corporate               ‘beyond
      operating, and                stewardship)            bread’, the
      exiting.                      78 (hiv/ aids           sustainable
                                    awareness)              developmen
                                    79 (disaster            t report
                                    response network)       2009-10, we
                                                            have 5 key
                                                            areas we
                                                            work on
                                                            ([page 76).
so2   percentage and        fully   gri content index       we have not
      total number of                                       analyzed our
      business units                                        business
      analyzed for risks                                    units for
      related to                                            corruption
      corruption.                                           related risks

so3   percentage of         fully   37                      code of
      employees trained                                     conduct
      in organization's                                     under
      anti-corruption                                       corporate
      policies and                                          governance
      procedures.                                           covers this
                                                            clause

so4   actions taken in      fully   gri content index       in this
      response to                                           reporting
      incidents of                                          year, there
      corruption.                                           were no
                                                            reported
                                                            incidents of
                                                            corruption in
                                                            the
                                                            organization




                                                                     125

so5   public policy      fully   56 (world economic
      positions and              forum’s annual
      participation in           meeting 2011)
      public policy              57 (world ceo
      development                forum on
      and lobbying.              sustainable
                                 development, 6th
                                 national convention
                                 of ungc)
                                 58 (water resource
                                 group phase ii
                                 session 2010,
                                 aquatech india
                                 2011)
                                 59 (india water
                                 forum 2011, teri’s
                                 stakeholder
                                 dialogue)
                                 60 (ungc week
                                 2011)
                                 61 (wwf water
                                 stewardship
                                 workshop)
                                 62 (ungc leaders
                                 summit 2010)
                                 63 (gri cress
                                 final meeting 2011)
so6   total value of     not
      financial and
      in-kind
      contributions to
      political
      parties,
      politicians, and
      related
      institutions by
      country.
so7   total number       not
      of legal actions
      for anti-
      competitive
      behavior, anti-
      trust, and
      monopoly
      practices and
      their
      outcomes.
so8   monetary           fully   gri content index     no fines paid
      value of                                         for legal non-
      significant                                      compliance
      fines and total                                  during the
      number of non-                                   reporting
      monetary                                         period. the
      sanctions for                                    head of hr
                                                       issues a
      non-
                                                       certificate on
      compliance
                                                       achieving
      with laws and                                    compliance
      regulations.                                     every
                                                       quarter.




                                                                126

                              social: product responsibility
pr1   life cycle stages      fully   not applicable            as a
      in which health                                          construction
      and safety                                               company,
      impacts of                                               we do not
      products and                                             manufacture
      services are                                             products or
      assessed for                                             deliver direct
      improvement, and                                         services. we
      percentage of                                            ensure that
      significant                                              our
      products and                                             structures
      services                                                 are safe
      categories subject                                       from the
      to such                                                  design up to
      procedures.                                              completion
                                                               stage,
                                                               though we
                                                               do not carry
                                                               out life cycle
                                                               assessment
                                                               s at this
                                                               point
pr2   total number of        fully   no incidents of non
      incidents of non-              compliance during
      compliance with                the reporting period.
      regulations and
      voluntary codes
      concerning health
      and safety
      impacts of
      products and
      services during
      their life cycle, by
      type of outcomes.
pr3   type of product        fully   not applicable            as a
      and service                                              construction
      information                                              company,
      required by                                              this indicator
      procedures, and                                          is not
      percentage of                                            relevant to
      significant                                              us as we do
      products and                                             not
      services subject to                                      manufacture
      such information                                         a ‘product’.
      requirements
pr4   total number of        not
      incidents of non-
      compliance with
      regulations and
      voluntary codes
      concerning
      product and
      service
      information and
      labeling, by type
      of outcomes.
pr5   practices related      fully   27-28
      to customer
      satisfaction,
      including results


                                                                        127

      of surveys
      measuring
      customer
      satisfaction.
pr6   programs for        fully   gri content index   the
      adherence to                                    corporate
      laws, standards,                                communicati
      and voluntary                                   ons
      codes related to                                practices of
      marketing                                       hcc
      communications,                                 conform to
      including                                       the laws and
      advertising,                                    acts that
      promotion, and                                  govern
      sponsorship.                                    corporate
                                                      advertising,
                                                      promotion
                                                      and
                                                      sponsorship.

pr7   total number of     not
      incidents of non-
      compliance with
      regulations and
      voluntary codes
      concerning
      marketing
      communications,
      including
      advertising,
      promotion, and
      sponsorship by
      type of outcomes.
pr8   total number of     not
      substantiated
      complaints
      regarding
      breaches of
      customer privacy
      and losses of
      customer data.
pr9   monetary value of   fully   gri content index   no such
      significant fines                               fines paid
      for non-                                        during the
      compliance with                                 reporting
      laws and                                        period.
      regulations
      concerning the
      provision and use
      of products and
      services.




                                                              128

                                                                            ernst & young pvt. ltd.
                                                                            3rd floor, block ‘c’
                                                                            22 camac road
                                                                            kolkata-700016, india
                                                                            tel: +91 33 6615 3400
                                                                            fax:+91 33 2281 7750
                                                                            www.ey.com/india


                          independent assurance statement


the management and board of directors
hindustan construction company limited
mumbai, india.


our engagement
ernst & young pvt. ltd. (“ey”) was retained by hindustan construction company
ltd.(“company”) to provide an independent assurance on its corporate sustainability report
titled ‘responsible infrastructure’ for its engineering and construction business for the financial
year 2010-11 (the “report”).

the company’s management is responsible for the contents of the report, identification of key
issues, engagement with stakeholders and its presentation. ey’s responsibility is to provide
independent assurance on the report content as described in the scope of assurance.

our responsibility in performing our assurance activities is to the management of the company
only, and in accordance with the terms of reference agreed with the company. we do not
therefore accept or assume any responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person or
organization. any dependence that any such third party may place on the report is entirely at its
own risk. the assurance report should not be taken as a basis for interpreting the company’s
overall performance, except for the aspects mentioned in the scope below.

scope of assurance
the scope of assurance covers the following aspects of the report:
   · data and information related to the company’s sustainability performance for the period
      1 april 2010 to 31 march 2011;
   · review of sustainability data and information covering the company’s four business
      units under the engineering and construction business;
          - transportation business unit,
          - water solutions business unit,
          - hydro power business unit, and
          - nuclear power and special projects business unit
   · the company’s internal policies, protocols and processes related to collection and
      collation of sustainability performance data.

exclusions
the assurance scope excludes:
   ·  operations of the company other than the engineering and construction business;
   ·  aspects of the report other than those mentioned above;




                                                                                                      129

       ·   data and information outside the defined reporting period (1 april 2010 to 31 march
           2011);
       ·   the company’s statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration,
           expectation, aim or future intention;
       ·   review of the ‘economic performance indicators’ included in the report which, we
           understand, are derived from the company’s audited annual report fy 2010-11.

level of assurance and criteria used
the assurance engagement was planned and performed in accordance with international
federation of accountants’ international standard for assurance engagements other than
audits or reviews of historical financial information (isae 3000). our evidence-gathering
procedures were designed to obtain a ‘limited’ level of assurance (as set out in isae 3000) on
reporting principles, as well as sustainability performance indicators as per gri 2006 (gri g3)
guidelines.

our review methodology
the performance of our engagement involved the following key steps:
   · interviews at the company’s corporate office with engineering and construction
      business heads, function heads and key personnel to understand the sustainability
      vision, mechanism for management of key sustainability issues and engagement with
      key stakeholders;
   · visits to three sites covering three out of the company’s four business units as
      mentioned in the ‘scope of assurance’ above;
          o transportation business unit at kolkata elevated corridor project, kolkata, west
              bengal;
          o water solutions business unit at maroshi ruparel tunnel project, mumbai,
              maharashtra; and
          o hydro power business unit at teesta hydro-electric power project stage vi lot
              iv, sikkim
   · review of relevant documents and systems for gathering, analyzing and aggregating
      sustainability performance data for the reporting period;
   · evidencing support of claims made in the report regarding the company’s sustainability
      performance.
   · review of selected qualitative statements and sample case studies in various sections of
      the report;

observations
our key observations are as follows:
• the company has continued to demonstrate its commitment to sustainability by publishing
   its second sustainability report at the gri g3 a+ level and its third communication on
   progress (cop) to the un ceo water mandate in a row;5
• the company has an occupational health & safety (oh & s) reporting system which
   records first aid incidence rate and environmental incidents. hcc could report these
   statistics in addition to the injury rate, fatalities, severity and frequency rate henceforth;




5
    this year, the sustainability report also contains the cop to the un ceo water mandate

                                                                                             130

•   the company has taken the following concrete actions to strengthen its water management
         o installation of flow meters to track water usage at project sites as witnessed at all
            three sites visited
         o construction of water treatment facilities as evidenced at kolkata elevated corridor
            project site
•   a certain amount of data changed during the process of review. the company is still in the
    process of establishing indicator protocols and streamlining data compilation for key
    performance indicators such as air emissions, waste;
•   the company has continued to report on issues identified as material in its previous
    sustainability report (‘beyond bread’, 2009-10). these views on materiality continue to
    remain internal to a large extent, and the company could incorporate materiality analysis by
    external stakeholders in the future;
•   given the presence of its project sites across the country, the company’s current definition
    for local suppliers includes all those entities that are located within india. going forward, the
    company might consider suppliers operating in and around the project sites specifically as
    local.

our conclusion

on the basis of our review scope and methodology, nothing has come to our attention that
would cause us not to believe that the report presents the company’s triple-bottom-line
performance in material respect.

our assurance team
our assurance team, comprising of multidisciplinary professionals, has been drawn from our
climate change and sustainability services, and undertakes similar engagements with various
indian and international companies. as an assurance provider, ey is required to comply with the
independence requirements set out in international federation of accountants (ifac) code of
ethics for professional accountants. ey’s independence policies and procedures ensure
compliance with the code.


for ernst & young private limited




sudipta das
partner
dated: 28th september 2011
kolkata


                                                                                                 131

hindustan construction co. ltd.
hincon house
lal bahadur shastri marg
vikhroli (west)
mumbai 400083
india
tel.: +91 22 2577 5959
fax: +91 22 2577 7568


www.hccindia.com




                                  132
