      2015 annual and csr report




mining
experience

table of
contents
our company                       6
business and financial review    20
csr approach                     30
our people                       49
social impact                    59
environment                      80
csr performance data            100

about this report   151

contact us          156

glossary            157

mining
experience
hudbay understands every phase of the mining cycle. founded in 1927, the company has benefited
from and endured every opportunity and challenge this industry can present. between 2010 and
2015, we met the test of simultaneously developing what are now three outstanding mines. today,
our low-cost metals production and growth potential position us for continued success as a solid
investment and a reliable partner everywhere we operate.



recently celebrated                                     revenue by significant
                                                        metal type1


            100th
         anniversary
    of the discovery of the flin flon deposit




                                                        1. based on 2015 annual gross revenue before
                                                        deduction of treatment and refining charges and
                                                        pre-production revenue and including unrealized
                                                        gains and losses related to non-hedge derivative
                                                        contracts.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                        1

case study




maintaining safety and controlling costs in manitoba

in underground mines, like hudbay’s reed operation in northern manitoba, wire-mesh
screens are bolted to the walls and ceiling to help prevent rock falls and cave-ins. the
screens are held in place by plates, attached by lengths of rebar. mining activities like
underground blasting can lead to rocks falling or shifting behind the screens, which causes
them to bend outward or “bag”. to minimize “bagging” at reed, the rebar securing the
plates is driven into the rock face in a pattern like the “five” side on a die. it’s effective, but
expensive, with each length of rebar costing approximately c$14. after thorough research
and testing, miners at reed determined they could use a mechanical bolt instead of a
longer piece of rebar for the centre, while still employing the “five” dice pattern that had
been so effective. this one change will translate into annual savings of c$180,000 while
maintaining our high safety standards. it’s a perfect example of continuous improvement
at work, and has since been implemented at hudbay’s 777 mine as well.

overall, continuous improvement and cost optimization initiatives contributed to more
than c$4 million in savings in 2015, while maintaining or improving our operating
standards. additional savings of c$15 million in the manitoba operations are planned in
2016.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                               2

case study




constancia expands transport fleet in response to production
ramp-up and transportation challenges

through enviable performance, the team at constancia ramped up to full production far
more quickly than anticipated. during the same period, the peru ministry of transportation
was carrying out a major construction program that closed off traffic for seven hours per
day on a 60-kilometre section of the 470-kilometre route from the mine to the port at
matarani. consequently, a backlog of copper concentrate built up at the site in the fall of
2015. to reduce the backlog, a much larger fleet of trucks and drivers was needed to get
concentrate to the port. transport companies across peru were contracted, and a team of
contractors and subcontractors was soon assembled. however, it became clear that work
needed to be done to ensure that the new drivers understood and acted in accordance
with hudbay’s safety expectations.

experienced instructors were hired to provide training, verify skills and periodically assess
driver performance. the drivers were educated in the principles of defensive driving,
including self-monitoring for fatigue and aggressive driving. we added control points for
checking driver compliance and allowing drivers to rest if tired. trucks were linked to a gps
monitoring system that tracked location as well as driving speed. we also explored
alternative routes to bypass road construction, but these secondary roads through the
andes proved unsuitable for the safe operation of transport trucks.

although hudbay represented less than one-third of the heavy truck traffic on most of the
route, more communities took notice of our operations, particularly on the unpaved
sections of the route, as the number of trips increased. constancia’s community relations
team contacted local leaders, held public meetings, informed people about routes and
timing, and explained measures put in place to mitigate the impact of increased traffic (like
watering gravel roads to control dust).




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                             3

to provide further opportunities for local communities to benefit economically from our
move into operations, we also worked with committees for development in uchucarco and
chilloroya to help them purchase 25 trucks, which they could rent to contractors hauling
constancia concentrate to matarani.

through our efforts to increase transportation capacity and safety, all of the excess
concentrate inventory was moved to port and sold by the end of 2015.



case study




arizona business unit builds ties with the community

hudbay has a lot of experience in building close ties with the communities near our mining
operations – we’ve been doing it for almost 100 years. in 2014, we acquired the rosemont
project. located in pima county, arizona, approximately 50 miles (80 kilometres)
southwest of tucson, rosemont has the potential to be one of the largest copper mines in
the us. soon after the acquisition was completed, the head of our arizona business unit,
pat merrin, moved to tucson with his family, and worked to demonstrate that hudbay is
committed to building the right mine, the right way, and that good community relations
are an essential part of that vision.

while rosemont is still in the permitting phase, we’ve had a team on the ground for two
years, and have hired local people for a number of key roles. we’ve also put in place a
community relations (cr) strategic plan with a stated mission to build meaningful
relationships with stakeholders based on integrity and mutual respect. our efforts in this
area range from detailed protocols for cr and government relations; building local
relationships through engagement initiatives, such as site tours; implementing a robust
corporate contributions program; and doing simple things, like financially supporting and
taking part in local events.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                          4

we hope to complete permitting in 2016. once the construction phase of the project is
initiated, business unit lead pat merrin notes, “we need to build not just a profitable mine,
but a good mine… one that people respect, trust and see as a valuable addition to their
community.”




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                             5

our
company
hudbay is an integrated mining company that produces copper concentrate
(containing copper, gold and silver) and zinc metal. we are headquartered in
toronto, ontario, canada, and listed on the toronto stock exchange, new york
stock exchange and bolsa de valores de lima under the symbol “hbm”.

1     manitoba

lalor
  100% ownership
  long-life, underground zinc/copper/gold mine
  stall lake concentrator processes lalor ore

777
  100% ownership
  underground copper/zinc/gold/silver mine
  flin flon concentrator
  hydrometallurgical zinc plant

reed
  70% ownership
  underground copper mine


2     arizona

rosemont
  92.05% ownership*
  open pit copper project


3     peru

constancia
  100% ownership
  open pit copper mine and concentrator
  commercial production achieved in 2015

* our ownership in rosemont is subject to an earn-in agreement with united copper and moly llc (ucm) pursuant to which ucm has earned 7.95%
interest in the project and may earn up to a 20% interest.




hudbay       2015 annual and csr report                                                                                                       6

our company
ceo
message
2015 was a year of transition and important growth accomplishments for hudbay. in my first letter as
chief executive officer, i’m pleased to report that 2015 was also a year that confirmed the strengths
of our strategy and our people.

when hudbay successfully ramped up to full commercial production at constancia, it completed the
transition from a company that had been focused on development to one focused on optimizing
production and processes at operating mines. as we reported early this year, copper sales volumes
from our mines – constancia, lalor, reed and 777 – increased 850% year-over-year in the fourth
quarter of 2015. this is a remarkable achievement by any measure and in any market conditions.

experience managing the mining cycle
the impact of this strong performance was in stark contrast to the low price environment that
affected the entire commodity market. at the same time, it demonstrated why we focused on
bringing lalor and constancia, in particular, into production. high-quality, long-life, low-cost mines
enable hudbay to perform even in the tough times, and position us to capitalize on opportunity
when, as it always does, the cycle follows its natural path to metal price increases.




                                                 copper sales volumes from our mines –
                                                 constancia, lalor, reed and 777 – increased
                                                 850% year-over-year in the fourth quarter of
                                                 2015. this is a remarkable achievement by any
                                                 measure and in any market conditions.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                      7

in response to deteriorating commodity prices, we launched an extensive review of all of our
operations as part of a company-wide efficiency improvement initiative. this review delivered
expected 2016 capital expenditure and operating cost reductions of more than $100 million,
compared to 2016 guidance, with no effect on our production guidance. it is important to make clear
that pursuing and implementing these savings had no impact on safety. safety is never negotiable.

in early 2016, hudbay also announced amendments to our credit facility. we received commitments
from lenders under our two secured credit facilities to consolidate the lender groups and restructure
the two facilities with more flexible financial covenants and longer maturity dates. not only does our
success in this renegotiation enhance our liquidity position, but it is also a clear indication that the
market recognizes hudbay’s strengths and it leaves us well positioned to respond to the current
price environment.

meeting challenges
given the size, location and complexity of the project, the ramp-up to commercial production at
constancia went remarkably smoothly, but inevitably, there were challenges. in fall 2015, driven in
part by strong ramp-up performance, we experienced a build-up of copper concentrate inventory at
the mine site. in response, a larger fleet was quickly certified, the range of routes to the port at
matarani optimized, and by the end of 2015, the entire excess inventory had been transported to
port and sold.

hudbay manitoba’s collective agreements with the seven unions expired on december 31, 2014. we
were unable to establish an agreement with one union, which subsequently went on strike in
may 2015. work proceeded under a contingency plan, and a new three-year collective agreement
was finalized in august 2015.

our acquisition of the new britannia mine and mill (nbm mill), in may 2015, is an example of
imaginative near-term cost control and strategic long-term thinking. though it is currently on care
and maintenance, the nbm mill can be refurbished more quickly and more cost-effectively than
building a new concentrator, as was initially planned for lalor. at the same time, it offers a range of
functionality that gives us considerable flexibility in processing copper and gold from lalor.

mindful of our responsibilities
an organization-wide commitment to corporate social responsibility (csr) has been essential to the
achievements of the last five years, and will help sustain hudbay through the ups and downs of the
commodity cycle. at all times, while taking steps to drive efficiency and optimize performance, we
remain mindful of our responsibilities to our employees, our communities and the environment. csr
is very much like safety in this respect.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                        8

csr makes a key contribution to productivity and efficiency at all of our operations, including our
2016 priorities to achieve iso 14001 (environmental) and ohsas 18001 (health and safety)
certification at constancia, and to adopt the mining association of canada’s towards sustainable
mining initiative, the voluntary principles on security and human rights, and other international best
practice standards.

this past year, we also strengthened our policies and procedures with respect to anti-corruption, and
took measurable steps to ensure they are widely understood throughout hudbay.

as already mentioned, safety remained our top priority. our overall lost time accident (lta)
frequency was 0.3 per 200,000 hours worked in 2015. while not on par with our record 2014
performance of 0.1, it was still a strong year for safety.

connected to communities
building strong relationships with the communities near our operations is a defining characteristic of
hudbay, and has been since its founding almost 90 years ago. local residents must benefit from our
activities. this includes hiring people from nearby communities to work at our operations, which can
involve helping them upgrade their existing skills or teaching them new ones. at constancia, hudbay
peru employed more than 400 local people in 2015, and our manitoba subsidiary created 160 new
jobs, primarily at lalor.

along with providing employment, we contribute to local development through the goods and
services we purchase from local businesses, and through the taxes and royalties we pay on our
activities. this year, hudbay peru completed its first project under an innovative program that allows
companies to pay up to half their income tax through contributions to public infrastructure projects.
these funds financed the building of an irrigation system in the district of livitaca.

reflecting our commitment to openness and transparency, we pursued community outreach
initiatives at all of our operations and projects, keeping people informed of our activities and helping
them understand how they can engage and work with us. this included particular efforts focused on
aboriginal communities near our operations, where we continually work to build new relationships
and strengthen existing ties.

we marked our longest-standing community relationship throughout 2015 by commemorating the
100th anniversary of the discovery of the flin flon deposit. please visit the interactive centennial
museum on our website for a historic look at this milestone and its impact on our company and the
northern manitoba region.




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                                                   9

a sustainable approach
hudbay is committed to mitigating impacts at its operations, while contributing to regional
sustainability. our efforts in manitoba include an ongoing commitment to boreal woodland caribou
conservation, while in peru they include species rescue and relocation initiatives, revegetation
programs using regionally appropriate seedlings grown by local community members, and wetlands
management.

environmental studies at rosemont in arizona have been ongoing for the last several years. the data
from these studies has been used in developing management and mitigation plans that should help
to establish rosemont as a leader in environmental practice.

a strong foundation
hudbay is guided by experience, so in the current challenging market, our focus will be on process
optimization and cost efficiency. but experience also tells us there are few companies in the sector
as strongly positioned as hudbay to deliver long-term growth in performance and value.

in 2016, rosemont copper company, our arizona subsidiary, will continue work on the rosemont
permitting process and feasibility study to position it as one of the best shovel-ready projects in the
industry, ready to move forward when the economics for development improve. at constancia, even
after its first full year of commercial operation, the potential of this high-value, long-life asset
continues to impress.

the same is true in manitoba, where the foundation provided at lalor ensures that we will continue
to operate in the region well beyond the 100th anniversary in 2015 of the discovery of the original
flin flon deposit. despite our best efforts, including the exploration of the war baby claim in 2015, in
a matter of years, 777 will reach the end of its life as an operating mine. a priority for hudbay in 2016
will be working with our colleagues and with the community in flin flon to help ensure a smooth and
effective social and economic transition. at the same time, i cannot overstate that our commitment
to manitoba remains strong and our connection to flin flon will endure.

we intend to grow our company via exploration and development of projects already in our control,
like rosemont, while also keeping an eye on acquisition opportunities that fit our strategic criteria. in
order to successfully achieve these initiatives, we recognize the need to have strong operating and
management teams, which is why we will continue to develop leadership programs to maintain
uniform high leadership capability within hudbay. above all, we value the safety and well-being of all
our employees and the communities where we operate, and maintaining or improving our safety
performance and strong relationships with our local communities will remain top priorities for the
company.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                       10

i would like to thank the board for the confidence they have shown in me, and i want to thank my
colleagues throughout hudbay for the support they have extended to me in my new role. the theme
of this year’s report is mining experience, because it captures how hudbay benefits from a depth of
experience and a knowledge of mining that combine to give us a truly unique advantage.

i invite you to review our report and our websites to find out more about hudbay’s achievements in
2015, and our priorities for the years ahead.

sincerely,




alan hair
president and chief executive officer




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                   11

our company
corporate
governance
hudbay’s board of directors and management team believe that good governance supports the
company’s strong performance and long-term success, providing oversight and accountability,
strengthening internal and external processes, and helping secure the confidence and trust of our
many stakeholders.

the board oversees the company’s business and provides guidance to management to help meet
corporate objectives and maximize shareholder value. the board fulfills its responsibilities directly
and through its five committees:

  audit committee

  compensation committee

  corporate governance and nominating committee

  environmental, health, safety and sustainability committee

  technical committee

board members are selected based on criteria that include: judgment, character, expertise, skills and
knowledge useful to the oversight of the company’s business; diversity of viewpoints, backgrounds,
experiences and other demographics including gender; business or other relevant experience; and
the overall composition of the board.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                     12

board of directors




   w. warren holmes*                      alan hair           igor gonzales*

         chairman                     president and chief        technical
        corporate                      executive officer        committee,
      governance and                                          environmental,
        nominating                                           health, safety and
     committee (chair)                                         sustainability
                                                                committee




    tom a. goodman                    alan r. hibben*       sarah b. kavanagh*

      environmental,                    compensation         audit committee
    health, safety and                committee (chair),     (chair), corporate
       sustainability                     corporate           governance and
    committee (chair),                 governance and           nominating
     audit committee                     nominating             committee
                                         committee




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                               13

       alan j. lenczner*                 kenneth g. stowe*     michael t. waites*

        audit committee,                 technical committee    audit committee,
         compensation                           (chair),       technical committee
          committee                         environmental,
                                          health, safety and
                                             sustainability
                                              committee




       carin s. knickel*

         compensation
           committee,
         environmental,
        health, safety and
          sustainability
           committee

* independent




hudbay      2015 annual and csr report                                               14

our company
business
conduct
operating openly, fairly and with integrity is the proper way to run our business and the right way to
treat our stakeholders.

hudbay employees and contractors are expected to uphold high standards of honesty and integrity.
our code of business conduct and ethics (the “code”) and related policies set out principles for
directors, officers and employees on matters like compliance with law, conflicts of interest,
confidential information, protection and proper use of hudbay assets, and the reporting of illegal
and unethical behaviour. we recognize that bribery and corruption pose risks wherever we operate,
and we want to be very clear about our standards and expectations.

on joining the company, all board members and employees must sign a declaration confirming that
they understand and will comply with the code. the board requires every director and executive
officer to disclose any direct or indirect conflict of interest, and to confirm compliance with the code
annually. formal, annual confirmation of compliance with the code is also required from all
employees above the manager level and those dealing with money or government officials.

employees and contractors working at constancia are also expected to abide by a code of conduct
and social protocol based on the corporate code and local community commitments. a plain
language booklet and a video inform all workers at the site about the obligations under the
constancia code.

hudbay’s legal department is responsible for providing compliance training on the code of business
conduct and ethics and related policies, and on the canadian corruption of foreign public officials act
(cfpoa) and the us foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa), to specific groups or across the organization
as it deems appropriate. the focus on anti-bribery and anti-corruption was expanded in 2015 to
include an online training component.

we encourage employees who become aware of a real or potential conflict or departure from the
code to bring it to the attention of a supervisor or department head. the board has adopted a
whistleblower policy for employees to report concerns regarding, among other things, violations of
the code or anti-bribery legislation or concerns related to financial statement disclosure issues,
accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters. hudbay has a third-party managed
ethics hotline that allows individuals to report any concerns about inappropriate business conduct
confidentially and anonymously by phone, website (http://www.clearviewconnects.com) or mail.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                    15

2015 performance highlights

  we strengthened our anti-corruption policies and procedures in multiple ways including:
     developing a statement on anti-corruption, which is posted to our website;

     making a “how to say no” video training series on bribery and corruption available to all
     employees through our corporate intranet;

     ensuring that select employees complete an online training program on anti-bribery and
     anti-corruption;

     revising all contract templates to prohibit bribery and corrupt activities;

     modifying the vendor onboarding process to ensure that employees consider a series of
     questions related to anti-bribery and anti-corruption and, in certain cases, obtain due diligence
     reports before engaging vendors; and

     broadening the scope of employees across the organization who receive anti-bribery and
     anti-corruption training.

  ethics and anti-corruption training:
     10 board members (100%) received ethics and anti-corruption training.

     360 employees were trained in anti-corruption policies, representing 21% of the workforce and
     91% of those who were required to receive training because of their role.

  the majority of complaints received through our third-party whistleblower reporting service
  involve operational matters and employee relations. thirty-four incidents were reported in 2015,
  all of which were investigated and resolved with corrective action where necessary. while none of
  these incidents involved significant allegations of fraud or violations of our code of business
  conduct and ethics, there were issues related to business, health, safety and environmental
  practices; inappropriate behaviour or violation of a company policy or procedure; and conflicts of
  interest.


to report
an issue

there are a number of avenues available to people who wish to make inquiries on ethical and lawful
behaviour, and on matters related to organizational integrity, as well as to register a concern about
hudbay’s activities:

  contact our board of directors by mail or email at chairman@hudbay.com.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                      16

  to make a confidential report to the chair of hudbay’s audit committee about a perceived
  violation of the company’s internal and accounting controls, auditing matters or violations of the
  company’s code of business conduct and ethics, call +1 877 457-7318 or visit
  www.clearviewconnects.com. reports are handled under our whistleblower policy, and the chair
  of the audit committee is responsible for ensuring that they are appropriately investigated.

  the office of the extractive sector corporate social responsibility (csr) counsellor is a resource
  available for constructively resolving conflicts between project-affected communities and
  canadian extractive sector companies outside of canada. the csr counsellor can be reached by
  email at csr-counsellor@international.gc.ca or by telephone at +1 343 203-6735.

  canada’s national contact point (ncp) for the organisation for economic co-operation and
  development (oecd) provides a forum where multinational enterprises, canadian businesses,
  non-governmental organizations and labour organizations can voice their views and concerns.
  canada’s ncp can be reached by email at ncp.pcn@international.gc.ca or by telephone at
  +1 343 203-2341.

  the majority of complaints received through our third-party whistleblower reporting service
  involve operational matters and employee relations. thirty-four incidents were reported in 2015,
  all of which were investigated and resolved with corrective action where necessary. while none of
  these incidents involved significant allegations of fraud or violations of our code of business
  conduct and ethics, there were issues related to business, health, safety and environmental
  practices; inappropriate behaviour or violation of a company policy or procedure; and conflicts of
  interest.

we also have grievance processes set up at our projects and operating sites to address community
concerns. see community relations for details.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                    17

our company
management
team
our experienced management team is responsible for establishing and implementing the company’s
long-range goals, strategies, plans and policies, subject to the board’s direction and oversight.




           alan hair                       david bryson                     cashel meagher

     president and chief               senior vice president              senior vice president
      executive officer                 and chief financial               and chief operating
                                              officer                            officer




           eric caba                       david clarry                    patrick donnelly

    vice president, south                  vice president,                 vice president and
      america business                    corporate social                  general counsel
            unit                           responsibility




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                 18

         jon douglas                   elizabeth gitajn        eugene lei

    vice president and                vice president, risk    vice president,
         treasurer                       management             corporate
                                                              development




         terry linde                    patrick merrin        mary-lynn oke

      vice president,                    vice president,      vice president,
   project and technical              arizona business unit       finance
         services




     robert winton

     vice president,
    manitoba business
          unit




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                             19

business and
financial review
in a challenging year for commodities, hudbay leveraged decades of mining
experience to deliver nearly 300% growth in copper production and beat
operating costs guidance while carrying out an extraordinarily successful
ramp-up of production at constancia, optimizing the manitoba operations and
advancing the rosemont project.

key accomplishments
 achieved commercial production at constancia and completed ramp-up – both on budget and on
 schedule

 delivered growth in copper production, sales, revenue and operating cash flow compared to
 previous year

 2015 production of all key metals was within guidance ranges for both the manitoba and south
 america business units




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                             20

2015 summary


operations summary
for the years ended december 31                                                                                     2015             2014

production (contained metal in concentrate)*

  copper (000 tonnes)                                                                                               147.3             37.6

  zinc (000 tonnes)                                                                                                 102.9             82.5

  gold (000 ounces)                                                                                                 100.2             73.4

  silver (000 ounces)                                                                                         2,791.5               745.9

* metal reported in concentrate is prior to refining losses or deductions associated with smelter contract terms.



financial summary
financial condition (in $000s)                                                                     dec. 31, 2015             dec. 31, 2014

cash and cash equivalents                                                                         $            53,852        $    178,668
working capital                                                                                                57,613              87,166
total assets                                                                                             4,479,585               4,850,881
total long-term debt                                                                                     1,274,880                987,067
equity                                                                                                   1,787,290               2,109,058




financial performance
(in $000s, except per share and cash cost amounts)                                                 dec. 31, 2015             dec. 31, 2014

revenue                                                                                           $          886,051         $    507,515
(loss) profit before tax                                                                                  (399,041)                13,942
basic and diluted (loss) earnings per share1                                                                        (1.41)            0.31
(loss) profit                                                                                             (331,428)                65,269
operating cash flows before stream deposit and
change in non-cash working capital                                                                           222,140               16,771




hudbay       2015 annual and csr report                                                                                                 21

financial performance
(in $000s, except per share and cash cost amounts)                                                dec. 31, 2015   dec. 31, 2014

production
contained metal in concentrate2
  copper (tonnes)                                                                                      147,280          37,644
  gold (ounces)                                                                                        100,177          73,377
  silver (ounces)                                                                                    2,791,536         745,910
  zinc (tonnes)                                                                                        102,919          82,542
metal sold
payable in metal in concentrate
  copper (tonnes)                                                                                      134,600          31,734
  gold (ounces)                                                                                         93,779          63,950
  silver (ounces)                                                                                    1,873,176         634,402
  refined zinc (tonnes)                                                                                101,920         102,981

1. attributable to owners of the company.

2. metal reported in concentrate is prior to deductions associated with smelter contract terms.




hudbay       2015 annual and csr report                                                                                      22

                                before joining hudbay, eugene lei worked as an investment
                                banker focused on mining for over a decade. “i wanted to
                                specialize in something that canada excelled at, and mining is
                                where canadian companies are the leaders in the world.” it was
                                the opportunity to “be with companies that are growing,
                                companies that matter” that drew eugene to hudbay. in 2014, he
          “our success in
                                played a central role in hudbay’s acquisition of rosemont, an asset
         developing a new
     operation, in a new
                                in arizona that will position hudbay among the world’s top copper
   country, a new language      producers. “we’d been tracking rosemont before i got here,”
  and a new type of mining,     notes eugene, “but part of my experience as an investment banker
      helped give us the        was helping to identify the right time, the right environment and
   confidence that we could     the right competitive situation for moving on rosemont.”
   do it here at rosemont.”     hudbay’s experience with constancia in peru also made an
         eugene lei             important contribution to the rosemont acquisition, says eugene.
                                “our success in developing a new operation, in a new country, a
     vice president,            new language and a new type of mining, helped give us the
       corporate                confidence that we could do it here at rosemont. closer to home,
     development                in 2015, eugene led the acquisition of the new britannia mine and
                                mill in snow lake. working with the hudbay technical team, “we
                                identified that the assets could be cost-effectively refurbished to
                                process gold-bearing ore from lalor. new britannia was a unique
                                opportunity that provides hudbay with strategic flexibility to
                                increase both throughput and recoveries, and deliver greater value
                                from lalor.”




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                                                  23

                                like many at hudbay, ken charuk has learned through doing.
                                when he first started working underground in 1988, ken wasn’t
                                surprised to discover that he had a knack for mining. “i was born
                                and raised in the farming industry, so operating heavy equipment,
                                doing all kinds of construction, that came very easy for me.” over
                                the years, ken has put his wide range of talents to use in a number
    “a big thing for me is
                                of jobs underground, from lhd operator to shaft inspector and
  feeling that i have made a
                                timberman. today, he is an operations foreman at hudbay’s 777
   difference. i have been
    fortunate. i am really      mine – a position that requires as much coaching skill as it does
    proud to work for this      technical expertise. being able to pass along his decades’ worth of
           company.”            knowledge and experiences at hudbay is one of ken’s greatest
                                rewards: “a big thing for me is feeling that i have made a
         ken charuk
                                difference. i have been fortunate. i am really proud to work for this
      operations                company.”
  foreman, 777 mine




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                                                 24

business and financial review
strategy
at hudbay, our mission is to create sustainable value for our stakeholders by acquiring, developing
and operating high-quality, long-life deposits with exploration potential in mining-friendly
jurisdictions. over the last five years, we have worked toward this objective, and in 2014 and 2015
our efforts culminated with the successful ramp-up of three new mines: lalor, reed and constancia.
this achievement was tempered somewhat in that it occurred during a volatile price environment for
commodities.

however, this environment highlighted another defining strength of hudbay. we have been mining
for close to 90 years, and have a remarkable number of highly experienced people in all our
jurisdictions and at every level of our operations. we know what it takes to deliver sustainable,
sector-leading growth at a low cost.

our strong asset base, solid financial position and experienced team provide hudbay with a platform
for pursuing and implementing our strategy for growth. we believe that the best way to create
stakeholder value in mining is to discover new mineral deposits and to develop facilities to profitably
extract ore from those deposits. in 2016 and beyond, we plan to grow hudbay through exploration
and development of properties we already control, such as our rosemont project in arizona, and
through the acquisition of other properties that meet our strategic criteria. we will also continue to
optimize the value of our producing assets through efficient and safe operations.

to help ensure that acquisitions we undertake always create sustainable value, we have a number of
criteria for evaluating opportunities:

  is the acquisition in a politically stable, mining-friendly jurisdiction in the americas?

  can we leverage our expertise in the exploration and development of volcanogenic massive
  sulphide and porphyry mineral deposits?

  does the asset offer significant potential for exploration, development and optimization?

  at what stage of development is the asset? because large mergers and acquisitions carry
  significant risks, we focus on early-stage projects, unless exceptional opportunities present
  themselves.

  do we have a clear understanding of how hudbay can add value to a potential acquisition, through
  our technical, operational and project execution expertise, or by providing needed financial capital
  or finding other optimization opportunities?

  is the acquisition accretive to hudbay on a per share basis?




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                      25

 can we deliver environmental performance and achieve broad social acceptance?


financial and business objectives for 2016

 focus on optimizing production and cost performance at our constancia and manitoba operations
 to ensure they remain cash flow positive.

 work to advance the permitting process, technical development, and community and government
 relations at the rosemont project.

 complete the planned 11,000-metre underground exploration of gold zones at lalor, as well as
 the related trade-off studies for mining and processing this gold mineralization. phase 1 of a
 drilling program, which included 14 holes, was completed in 2015, and assay results confirmed a
 high-grade thick core down the middle of the main zone.

 maintain sufficient liquidity to ensure hudbay remains well capitalized in an uncertain price
 environment.

 continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities that meet our criteria and pursue those that are in
 the best interest of hudbay and our stakeholders.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                   26

business and financial review
operations
2015 was a transitional year for hudbay. the successful ramp-up of our new mines supported a shift
in focus from advancing development to delivering production. backed by nearly 90 years of
experience, we were able to provide sector-leading growth in low-cost copper and zinc production.
we also took action to further optimize our mine operations, enhance our liquidity status and
achieve sustainable cost reductions. in 2015, our experience, our strategy and the strong
performance of our mines combined to ensure that hudbay is well positioned to weather the current
commodity price environment.


2015 performance highlights

  launched a hudbay-wide efficiency improvement initiative. this ongoing review, combined with
  cost containment efforts, resulted in expected 2016 capital expenditure and operating cost
  reductions of more than $100 million, with no impact on our 2016 production expectations.

  ratified new three-year agreements, which provide enhancements to wage rates, pensions and
  benefits, with all seven labour unions representing employees at hudbay’s manitoba business
  unit.

  resolved an inventory backlog at our constancia operation by increasing the size of our trucking
  fleet and expanding and optimizing our routes to the port of matarani. see the constancia case
  study to learn more.

  acquired the new britannia mine and mill (nbm), located in snow lake, manitoba, for
  approximately $11 million in net cash consideration, plus a contingent payment of $5 million.
  currently on care and maintenance, the nbm mill, if refurbished, can potentially process
  approximately 2,000 tonnes per day of gold zone ore from lalor. a technical study on restarting
  the nbm mill is currently underway and, as a result of the acquisition, hudbay no longer
  anticipates constructing a new concentrator at lalor.

  achieved full-year production guidance and met or came in below cost guidance at all operations.


manitoba

  in 2015, production of all metals increased compared to 2014 as a result of increased production
  at lalor and increased copper grades at reed. production of all metals and unit operating costs
  were within our guidance ranges.




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                                                 27

   ore production was 9% higher than in 2014 as a result of increased production at our lalor and
   reed mines, which achieved commercial production in 2014. this was partially offset by lower
   production at our 777 mine as a result of equipment availability in the second and third quarters of
   2015.

   copper and silver grades were lower than in 2014 by 2% and 10%, respectively, and zinc and gold
   grades were higher by 11% and 4%, respectively.

   combined, hudbay’s manitoba operations produced 41,383 tonnes of copper metal in
   concentrate, 102,919 tonnes of zinc metal in concentrate and 92,793 ounces of precious metals in
   concentrate.*
* precious metals production includes gold and silver production on a gold-equivalent basis. silver is converted to gold at a ratio of 70:1.



peru

   constancia achieved commercial production in the second quarter of 2015, and subsequently
   ramped up to full production in the latter half of the year. over the course of the year, the peru
   operations produced 105,897 tonnes of copper concentrate and 47,263 ounces of precious metals
   in concentrate. production was within our guidance range for 2015.*

   throughout 2015, optimization of plant performance was an important focus as on-site teams
   became increasingly familiar with operating the mine and with varying ore types. a key challenge
   for the year was managing shipping and inventory issues. in may and june, shipments from the
   constancia mine to the port of matarani were constrained by a number of factors, including truck
   availability, protests unrelated to hudbay on portions of the trucking route, and road repair
   activities that increased cycle times for concentrate trucks. as a result of these constraints and a
   faster ramp-up to full production than anticipated, an excess inventory of copper concentrate
   began building up at the mine. mine management addressed these issues in several ways,
   including by expanding the size of the mine’s trucking fleet. by year-end, inventory was back to
   normal working levels. see the constancia case study to learn more.

   looking to 2016, expansion of the port of matarani is near completion, with the new pier f starting
   to handle concentrate shipments in february. this new facility is intended to alleviate port
   congestion as other mines ramp up production.
* precious metals production includes gold and silver production on a gold-equivalent basis. silver is converted to gold at a ratio of 70:1.




hudbay        2015 annual and csr report                                                                                                       28

business and financial review
financials
notwithstanding a weak metal price environment, hudbay delivered strong financial results in 2015,
reflecting the results of new capital investment and management’s focus on cost optimization.
revenue increased by 75% to $886.1 million. operating cash flow before stream deposit and change
in non-cash working capital increased more than 13-fold, from $16.8 million to $222.1 million. cash
cost per pound of copper produced, net of byproduct credits, decreased from $1.45 per pound to
$1.14 per pound.*


consolidated financial statements                                                              pdf !



q4 management’s discussion and analysis                                                        pdf !

* operating cash flow per share and cash cost per pound of copper produced, net of byproduct credits, are non-ifrs financial performance measures
with no standardized definition under ifrs. for further information and a detailed reconciliation, please see the discussion under “non-ifrs financial
performance measures” beginning on page 48 of hudbay’s management‘s discussion and analysis filed february 24, 2016.




hudbay       2015 annual and csr report                                                                                                                  29

csr approach
operating sustainably is essential to our success. we have corporate social
responsibility policies, systems, plans and practices in place, and commit to
them everywhere we operate. it makes us better at what we do – a lesson
we’ve learned through experience.



                                an accountant by training, liz gitajn brings experience gained both
                                inside and outside the mining industry to her role. prior to joining
                                hudbay in 2015, she worked for close to a decade in the gold
                                sector, including five years with a senior producer that operated 27
                                mines. she has been actively involved in assessing and managing
                                risk – “operational risk, financial risk, strategic risk and compliance
   “hudbay has always had
                                risk” – since 1992. liz observes that hudbay has “always had an
    an effective enterprise
   risk process and now it is
                                effective enterprise risk process,” but her background has helped
   more formalized across       her further formalize that process, and better introduce it to “the
  the mine site and business    mine site level and the business unit level.” by working with people
         unit levels.”          “closest to any given situation,” liz gets the benefit of “educated,
                                skilled evaluations” that help her develop and implement
   elizabeth gitajn
                                “effective risk management programs and processes,” as well as
  vice president, risk          mitigation strategies that can have a company-wide impact.
     management




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                       30

                                an engineer by training, terry linde has been a leader on many
                                mining initiatives, in many different locations, over the course of
                                his 35 years in the business, including as director of projects for
                                constancia, where he worked from 2011 until 2015. along with
                                gathering experience, he has developed a global network of
                                connections, which make an essential contribution to his new role.
   “i pride myself on being
                                as terry notes, “i pride myself on being able to assemble and
    able to assemble and
  manage high-performance
                                manage high-performance teams. that’s what projects are all
      teams. that’s what        about.” currently focused on rosemont, terry is helping to lay the
    projects are all about.”    groundwork for development and making sure that lessons
                                learned at constancia, another large-scale open pit mine, are
         terry linde
                                applied to the project. more broadly, he’s also leading a team
    vice president,             focused on extending “a culture of excellence” in terms of
      project and               executing projects at hudbay. that effort includes “documenting
   technical services           processes and procedures” that can be used by “future teams for
                                whatever project is on the horizon.”



2015
industry recognition

  hudbay was named to the second annual                  flin flon finished second in the 2015
  future 40 responsible corporate leaders                manitoba provincial mine rescue
  in canada by corporate knights magazine.               competition. teams are judged on first
  focused on canadian companies with                     aid, firefighting, mine rescue procedures,
  revenues under c$2 billion, the ranking is             obstacle and recovery, and practical skills.
  based on 12 key performance indicators
  covering resource, employee and
  financial management.




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                                                    31

csr approach
csr governance
the environmental, health, safety and sustainability (ehss) committee of hudbay’s board of
directors oversees the company’s human rights, environmental, health and safety policies, programs
and systems. the committee meets quarterly to review performance and management of key ehss
risks, such as the health and safety of our workforce and community members, and environmental
risks. the committee also tracks the external iso 14001 and ohsas 18001 processes for hudbay’s
management systems. day-to-day management of hudbay’s csr program is the responsibility of our
vice president, corporate social responsibility, along with line management at each operation.

csr governance




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                              32

csr management framework
our csr management framework promotes continuous improvement and common performance
standards at all sites. our approach begins with our code of business conduct and ethics, human
rights policy and environmental health and safety policy, which are the highest-level statements of
our commitment to corporate social responsibility.

corporate and site-specific management systems support decision-making and performance.
operating sites are required to maintain certification under the iso 14001 (environmental) and
ohsas 18001 (health and safety) management standards. new sites are expected to achieve
certification within two years of start-up or acquisition by hudbay.

we implemented the first company-wide integrated management software system for capturing,
tracking and reporting health, safety, environment and social data in 2014. this system is now in use
at all hudbay locations. by supporting coordination between locations to spot trends, share best
practices and flag potential issues, the system is expected to help us improve performance, mitigate
risk and maintain compliance.


international best practice standards

hudbay has adopted international best practice standards that we consider particularly vital to our
business:

  iso 14001 environmental management standard

  ohsas 18001 health and safety management standard

  iso 9001 quality management standard for the production and supply of cast zinc products

  towards sustainable mining (tsm) – the mining association of canada’s set of tools and indicators
  to drive performance and ensure that key mining risks are managed responsibly

  voluntary principles on security and human rights – an operating framework that ensures security
  practices include respect for human rights

  global reporting initiative (gri) – the generally accepted framework for reporting on an
  organization’s economic, environmental and social performance

  cdp (formerly called the carbon disclosure project) – thousands of organizations globally measure
  and disclose their greenhouse gas emissions, water use and climate change strategies through
  cdp and cdp water




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                     33

  extractive industries transparency initiative (eiti) – hudbay is an official supporting company of
  the eiti. hudbay peru is a member of the peruvian mining society, which is fully committed to the
  eiti process in peru (see economic contributions for details)

  ifc performance standards – hudbay has committed to following ifc performance standards at
  our constancia project. part of the world bank group, the international finance corporation (ifc)
  is the largest development institution in the world that is focused exclusively on the private sector
  in developing countries


precautionary approach

hudbay operates under the precautionary principle through the life of a mine (that is, the duty to
prevent harm, when it is within our power to do so, working with a balance of probabilities if a
scientific conclusion is not yet available). we use baseline environmental and social impact studies to
evaluate how to avoid, mitigate or control potentially significant impacts; implement appropriate
monitoring and management systems; and address the need for mine closure. in all cases, provision
is made for public consultation and input.


industry
involvement +

hudbay participates in industry associations and multi-stakeholder groups through membership,
funding, provision of expertise and participation in committees and working groups. memberships
include the following:

  aboriginal chamber of commerce (manitoba)

  aime – society of mining engineers

  american exploration and mining association

  arizona association of economic development

  arizona chamber for commerce and industry

  arizona–mexico commission

  arizona mining association

  asociación vida perú (non-profit organization that donates medical equipment and medicines)

  cámara de comercio canadá–perú

  canadian aboriginal minerals association




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                    34

 canadian arizona business council

 canadian council for aboriginal business

 canadian dam association

 canadian institute of mining, metallurgy and petroleum and relevant societies

 confederación nacional de instituciones empresariales privadas, confiep (national confederation
 of private business institutions in peru)

 cusco chamber of commerce

 devonshire initiative (a canadian forum for leading international development ngos and mining
 companies to engage on mining and community development issues)

 eiti – extractive industries transparency initiative

 empresarios por la educación (a peruvian private sector organization to promote and develop
 educational projects)

 green valley sahuarita chamber of commerce

 grupo de diálogo, minería y desarrollo sostenible (multi-stakeholder group promoting open and
 transparent dialogue on mining, environmental protection and sustainable development in peru)

 iniciativa para la transparencia de las industrias extractivas en perú, eiti–perú (extractive
 industries transparency initiative, peru)

 international zinc association

 manitoba employers council

 marana chamber of commerce

 mining association of canada

 mining association of manitoba

 mining foundation of the southwest (us)

 national math and science initiative (us)

 northern manitoba sector council (not-for-profit employer-led network focused on building a
 skilled workforce for northern manitoba’s resource-based sector)

 oro valley chamber of commerce (az)




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                              35

 perú 2021. a private non-profit organization that promotes social responsibility (sr) as a
 methodology for business management. it represents the world business council for sustainable
 development (wbcsd) and is the only peruvian organization accredited as a “certified training
 partner” of the gri

 peruvian-canadian chamber of commerce

 prospectors and developers associations (provincial associations)

 prospectors and developers association of canada

 sarcc (organization of snmpe member companies providing emergency response services)

 saskatchewan mining association

 snmpe (national society of mining, oil and energy in peru)

 southern arizona business coalition

 southern arizona leadership council

 tucson hispanic chamber of commerce

 tucson metropolitan chamber of commerce




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                              36

csr approach
human rights and
security
upholding human rights is fundamental to sustainable development – and to the success of our
business. our human rights policy spells out our commitment to human rights, setting
internationally accepted standards for business and labour practices, community participation and
security measures.

in keeping with our policy, we also follow the voluntary principles on security and human rights, an
operating framework that ensures security practices include respect for human rights. our approach
is rooted in the belief that security begins with our relationships with neighbouring communities and
the professional conduct of our employees and security contractors.

our business units train security personnel on the united nations (un) code of conduct for law
enforcement officials and the un basic principles on the use of force and firearms by law
enforcement officials, particularly in peru. the training is provided to company employees as well as
contractors and public security who are on-site at our request. security supervisors and the majority
of contracted security staff are unarmed except for government-mandated armed security guards at
the two explosive storage areas in peru.

in peru, we regularly audit security policies and practices, and conduct gap analyses against the
voluntary principles. security personnel work closely with constancia’s community relations team to
maintain open lines of communication with local communities and mitigate potential issues.

hudbay is named in three civil lawsuits relating to events prior to 2010 in guatemala, where the
company once owned a controlling interest in compañía guatemalteca de níquel (cgn) and its fenix
ferro-nickel project. information about the litigation is posted to our website.


2015 performance highlights


peru

  following the 2014 occupation of the constancia property by members of a neighbouring
  community, and its incident-free resolution, we conducted a thorough security review that
  included interviews with security personnel and community leaders. findings were shared at
  employee and security staff workshops so that everyone could learn from the incident and know
  what is expected of them.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                     37

 we also engaged an ngo to audit constancia’s security practices against the voluntary principles.
 the audit revealed opportunities for improvement, and our peru team is evaluating the follow-up
 actions to be taken. two beneficial outcomes of this process have been enhanced social and
 human rights risk assessment, and expanding engagement on security topics.

 the constancia community relations and security teams initiated meetings with their peers at
 other mining companies in the area to collaborate on security approaches and discuss social unrest
 affecting other mining projects.

 our constancia security manager coordinated a series of monthly meetings of mining security
 managers in southern peru. the group invited guest speakers from the peruvian police force and
 local ngos to share best practices, including their experiences with the voluntary principles on
 security and human rights.


arizona

 the rosemont property is within 50 miles (80 kilometres) of the mexican border, and we are in
 regular communication with various federal, state and local law enforcement agencies including
 the us border patrol, fbi, usda forest service, az department of safety, pima county sheriff and
 local ems to ensure adequate protection for hudbay workers and assets. three meetings were
 held in 2015, and the decision was made to hold these meetings monthly in 2016.

 in the fall of 2015, we deemed it necessary to close public access to certain areas of private land
 on our property because of increasing safety hazards related to shafts and sinkholes from historic
 mining activities.


manitoba

 in addition to increased management oversight, we hired a third-party security management team
 at our operations during the 118-day labour strike. this was both to protect assets and non-striking
 workers and to provide a security resource. during this period, employees were required to show
 their company identification card to access our properties.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                    38

csr approach
stakeholder engagement
stakeholder engagement is about connecting with people and organizations that can impact or be
impacted by our business (such as investors, employees, communities and government). we want to
listen, communicate and integrate stakeholders’ voices into our plans. each business unit is expected
to put in place engagement practices that are consistent with hudbay’s objectives while reflecting
the local context.

our corporate stakeholder engagement and community response standards and guidance
documents provide clear direction on our expectations. by implementing these standards at each
site, we aim to build trust, strengthen relationships, reduce social risk and improve opportunities to
create value for the company and stakeholders.

typical site processes and activities are as follows:


                     typical community
 step                engagement activities        in practical terms

 identify              site map                   getting to know our neighbours and allowing them to
 stakeholders                                     know us
                       stakeholder register


 understand            stakeholder map and        understanding the culture, concerns and aspirations as
                       profiles                   well as infrastructure (e.g., locations of nearby schools or
                                                  hospitals)
                       socio-economic profile
                       risk management
                       framework


 plan                  stakeholder engagement     making decisions and documenting how we will engage
                       plan                       with community stakeholders


 engage                communication              workshops, meetings, joint committees, visits
                       materials
                       meeting notes


 respond               stakeholder engagement     recording the progress of engagement for future
                       logbook                    reference

                       commitments register




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                                                             39

identifying stakeholder interests

typical stakeholder priorities and concerns are listed below. additional information on many of the
topics can be accessed by clicking on the relevant links.


 stakeholder group               how we engaged in 2015                 priorities and concerns

 shareholders, investors and       conferences (11 events)                ramp-up of constancia
 analysts
                                   investor meetings and conference       financial strength
                                   calls (over 300 events)                shareholder returns
                                   annual general meeting                 permitting and community
                                   analyst and investor site visits       relations
                                   meeting between representatives
                                   of our board of directors and the
                                   canadian coalition for good
                                   governance


 employees and contractors         quarterly company-wide “town           health and safety
                                   hall” meetings via video               work processes
                                   conference                             business performance
                                   orientation and training programs      understanding of compensation
                                   one-on-one and small group             and benefits
                                   manager/staff meetings                 opportunities for personal
                                   social events (potlucks, holiday       development
                                   parties, off-site staff luncheons)     environmental requirements
                                   health and wellness activities and     training for policies, permits or
                                   committee meetings                     other requirements
                                   intranet


 unions                            meetings with union leaders on         renegotiate collective
                                   outstanding issues                     bargaining agreements with
                                   frequent meetings to renegotiate       unions
                                   collective bargaining agreements       grievances and grievance
                                                                          processes




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                                                          40

 stakeholder group              how we engaged in 2015                priorities and concerns

 local communities and            community information and             development project updates
 aboriginal/indigenous            consultation meetings                 community and area investment
 groups/native americans
                                  community partnerships                safety and environmental
                                  mine tours and open houses            concerns
                                  site grievance/community              land use
                                  response processes                    water use and quality
                                  community relations offices           cultural protection, awareness
                                  cultural awareness workshops and      and dissemination
                                  other training                        local employment and
                                  dialogue roundtables and              procurement
                                  agreements                            training programs for
                                                                        community members


 government                       meetings and agreements with          permitting
                                  local, regional, provincial and       environmental and legal
                                  federal government officials and      compliance/mitigation
                                  regulators                            aboriginal/indigenous/tribal
                                  joint initiatives with government     relations (where applicable)
                                  for social investments                economic contributions
                                                                        community and workforce
                                                                        development


 customers                        direct contact                        achieving agreed terms of
                                  industry and business forums          delivery for products
                                                                        compliance with
                                                                        environmentally and socially
                                                                        responsible performance and
                                                                        risk management


 industry associations            association meetings                  industry environmental, health,
                                  participation in committees           safety and community

                                  joint initiatives                     standards

                                  presentations and letters             legislation

                                  monthly security managers             education

                                  meetings in southern peru             best practices




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                       41

 stakeholder group              how we engaged in 2015                   priorities and concerns

 non-governmental                 meetings and written                     community development and
 organizations (ngos)             communications                           support
                                  participating in multi-stakeholder       education
                                  groups (e.g., devonshire initiative,     respecting community and
                                  grupo dialogo minero)                    human rights
                                  multi-stakeholder partnerships
                                  (e.g., asociación vida perú
                                  [manage donations of medicines
                                  and medical equipment])


 media                            one-on-one interactions with             transparency and accountability
                                  journalists, press releases              on social and environmental
                                  meetings with editors and                issues
                                  directors from key relevant media        presentations showing
                                                                           community and social
                                                                           investments and development




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                          42

csr approach
materiality
once every three years, we conduct a combined materiality, hazard and aspect assessment to guide
our csr reporting and management priorities. the assessment considers the environment, health,
safety and community (ehsc) issues that are most significant to hudbay in terms of business impact
and the degree of stakeholder interest.

our last assessment was conducted in 2014. please see our 2014 report to learn more about our
process.

materiality matrix
eleven priority issues were identified during the 2014 materiality assessment. click on the issue in
the diagram below for details on how it is being managed and our 2015 performance.




hudbay     2015 annual and csr report                                                                  43

this table indicates how our priority issues align with the g4 aspects reported in our gri index:


 priority issue                             gri (g4) aspects

 ethics                                       ethics and integrity
                                              anti-corruption


 human rights                                 security practices
                                              human rights grievance mechanism


 stakeholder engagement                       stakeholder engagement
                                              environmental grievance mechanisms
                                              grievance mechanisms for impacts on society


 aboriginal/indigenous relations              indigenous rights


 health and safety                            occupational health and safety


 employee relations                           labour/management relations


 economic performance                         economic performance
                                              indirect economic impacts
                                              procurement practices


 local market presence                        employment
                                              closure planning
                                              resettlement


 land and biodiversity                        biodiversity


 water                                        water


 tailings                                     effluents and waste




hudbay      2015 annual and csr report                                                              44

boundaries

the materiality review was conducted on the initial boundary assumption of activities and facilities
within hudbay’s management control (as described in the our company section of this report).
participants in the review process were then asked for cases in which boundary limits should be
adjusted for specific aspects. the exceptions that were agreed to be appropriate based on
stakeholder expectations and business risk are as follows:

  safety statistics are tracked and reported for all contractor activities that are under hudbay
  contracts and supervision;

  environmental incidents related to transportation between hudbay locations and local supplier
  activities are generally tracked and reviewed by hudbay, but are not included in performance
  reporting in this report;

  grievances are accepted and investigated with respect to local contractors, and are included in
  grievance numbers and characterization in this report; and

  scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions are calculated and reported.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                    45

csr approach
supply chain stewardship
mining is the first stage of a vast supply chain that transforms the earth’s mineral resources into
products that meet vital needs in every aspect of life. we focus our supply chain stewardship efforts
on the activities where we can have the greatest influence – namely, our own operations, contractors
working at our sites, local suppliers and hudbay products up to the point at which they have been
delivered to customers.

operations
all employees and contractors working at our sites are expected to meet the company’s
environmental, health and safety, and human rights standards, as described throughout this report.

suppliers
the direct supply chain for our copper concentrate and zinc metal products originates in hudbay’s
own mines in northern manitoba and peru, with the exception of some purchased zinc concentrate
that augments hudbay’s production as feed to our zinc metallurgical facility.1

the indirect supply chain for energy, goods and services used in transforming ore and concentrate
into products includes thousands of suppliers. this supply chain includes operating supplies,
maintenance supplies, energy and fuels as well as capital goods:

  in peru, our supply chain in 2015 was related to the capital investment and operation of our
  constancia project, ranging from engineering and construction services to mine haulage
  equipment and the grinding mills installed in the process plant. our top 50 suppliers accounted for
  91% of our spending, and 93% of our spending in 2015 was with suppliers based in peru.

  in manitoba, our supplier base relates to production operations and capital projects. our top 50
  suppliers represented 75% of our spending in 2015, and 92% of spending was with suppliers in
  canada, with another 7% of spending with suppliers based in other organisation for economic
  co-operation and development (oecd) countries. these suppliers provided goods and services
  including engineering services, electricity, spare parts for equipment, and capital equipment such
  as new underground haul trucks.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                    46

the top 10 suppliers and service providers to hudbay in 2014 were:


 caterpillar leasing chile s.a.                           cementation canada inc.

 cn (cad)                                                 corporacion primax s.a.

 cosapi s.a.                                              edegel s.a.a.

 glencore canada corporation                              manitoba hydro

 moly-cop adesur s.a.                                     stracon gym s.a.

we believe that our greater stewardship responsibility is at the local supply level, because our
influence is much greater with small local suppliers. our major international suppliers have their own
internal requirements and government regulations to comply with, and much of our procurement is
in countries with robust environmental, health and safety, and human rights regulation.

we therefore focus our supply chain sustainability efforts on encouraging and supporting local
suppliers in fulfilling their social responsibilities, often working with them to establish appropriate
health and safety, environmental or quality systems and processes.

products
our two main products, copper concentrate and zinc metal, come from our own mines in canada and
peru, and from purchased zinc concentrate:

  34% of copper concentrate was sold to smelters in the americas and europe, and 66% to smelters
  in asia. from there, several stages of melting and purifying the copper content ultimately result in
  99.99% pure copper, which provides the building block for many of life’s essentials.

  we ship cast zinc metal produced at our flin flon zinc plant by rail and truck to industrial
  customers (primarily galvanizers who use it to protect steel from corrosion) throughout north
  america.

hudbay products are conflict-free minerals under applicable regulatory requirements, meaning that
they are not produced in regions of armed conflict or human rights abuses.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                       47

copper and zinc products are accompanied by material safety data sheets that provide details on
product composition, toxicology, handling, storage and exposure issues. we also meet our product
stewardship commitments by collaborating with governments and industry associations such as the
international zinc association.

the international maritime organization (imo) has established new hazard classification criteria for
bulk cargoes. the international convention for the prevention of pollution from ships (marpol) has
imposed restrictions on the disposal of bulk cargo residues which have been classified as “harmful to
the marine environment” (hme) under the amended annex v of the marpol convention.

hudbay engaged the european copper institute (eci) to determine the marpol classification for
constancia’s copper concentrates, and the eci has concluded it is not hme. hudbay intends to have
its flin flon copper concentrates analyzed and classified in 2016.
1. purchased concentrate represents 10.5% of the feed to the zinc metallurgical plant and is 100% sourced from canada.



more on
supply chain stewardship

the minerals we mine play a fundamental role in the everyday lives of billions of people around the
world. here are some interesting facts and figures from the copper development association and
the international zinc association:

   copper is the standard benchmark for electrical conductivity. it conducts electrical current better
   than any other metal except silver.

   building construction accounts for nearly half of all copper use. about 200 kilograms (439 pounds)
   of copper is used in the average single-family north american home, primarily for building wire
   and plumbing tube, fittings and valves.

   about 23 kilograms (50 pounds) of copper and 18 kilograms (39 pounds) of zinc can be found in
   the average car.

   about 60% of zinc is used for galvanizing to protect steel from corrosion.

   zinc is called the “great protector” because it is used to protect metals (galvanizing) as well as
   humans, in products such as sunscreen (zinc oxide), zinc lozenges and vitamins.




hudbay       2015 annual and csr report                                                                                  48

our people
across borders, cultures and decades, the people at hudbay define the
company. their experience and values – their commitment to safety, to
collaboration, to diversity and to performance – enable hudbay to create
opportunities and overcome challenges.

$4 million                              400+
in financial benefits derived from
                                        local people
continuous improvement initiatives in
                                        employed at constancia
manitoba



$189                                    0.3
million                                 lost time
in wages and benefits paid              accident frequency
                                        per 200,000 hours worked




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                        49

                                as walt ryan says, when it comes to evaluating situations related
                                to health and safety, or advising his co-workers on the same
                                subject, “i can talk the talk because i walked the walk.” and then
                                some. walt has been a miner for over 40 years, with most of that
                                time spent with hudbay. though he’s been “a jackleg miner”, much
                                of his career has been spent in underground construction and for
   “the focus of hudbay is
                                the last few years he’s been a health, safety and training
      always on safety.”
                                coordinator, working primarily in the 777 mine in flin flon. in
         walt ryan              reflecting on his experience, walt notes that “there’s a
                                camaraderie in mining that you don’t see in other industries. you
   health, safety and
                                can count on the people you’re working with to keep an eye out.”
        training
                                that culture and those values are represented across hudbay. “i’ve
     coordinator,
                                studied a bit of the company’s history,” says walt. “the focus is
       manitoba
                                always on safety – and that impresses me.”




                                in a career that spans three decades, 12 different jobs and 10
                                different mines, one of the things that kim proctor finds most
                                rewarding about mining in general – and about working for
                                hudbay in particular – is the opportunity to learn new things.
                                “don’t back away from a career challenge,” says kim. “face it, own
                                it and use it as an opportunity to shine.” that’s advice she both
  “part of my job is to share
                                gives and follows. before taking on her current role, kim was the
      the core values of
  hudbay, developed in flin
                                project manager in charge of developing lalor, a mine in northern
  flon starting 90 years ago,   manitoba that was completed with remarkable speed and a
   to the team in arizona.”     remarkable safety record. today, she is in arizona working on a
                                proposed open pit project, after 30 years in underground mining.
         kim proctor
                                in addition to providing the insights of an expert mine developer,
    deputy project              kim is sharing “the core values of hudbay, developed in flin flon,
  director, rosemont            starting 90 years ago.”




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                                                 50

our people
health and
safety
a culture of zero harm is our first priority. we consider it essential that employees and contractors at
our sites have the knowledge, skills and equipment needed to perform their jobs safely – and the
support of management and co-workers to approach each task the right way.

within two years of start-up, operations are required to be certified to the ohsas 18001 health and
safety management standard. in manitoba, external evaluators perform semi-annual audits to
confirm ongoing compliance. we also follow the mining association of canada’s towards sustainable
mining (tsm) health and safety protocols at operating sites within and outside of canada. internal
assessments against the tsm protocols are performed annually and third-party verification takes
place once every three years.

an integrated management software system supports the process of recording, investigating and
tracking all types of incidents and non-conformances across the company. since its implementation
in 2014, the system has enabled us to conduct more rigorous reviews of high-potential safety risks
and put in place appropriate controls.

the positive attitude safety system (pass) is an important program for driving performance in
manitoba. pass is based on facilitated discussions at all levels of the organization, to increase each
person’s involvement in recognizing and managing workplace risks. pass includes activities like
safety huddles at the start of each shift, “a” logs for recording crews’ safety fixes and improvements,
the rating of safe days, and monthly pass newsletters. its success is due in part to its strong
emphasis on positive reinforcement.

at operating sites, we maintain programs aimed at promoting and maintaining employee health and
wellness. for example, in manitoba, the programs include:

  fibrogenic dust screening conducted at least twice a year;

  hearing surveillance tested at least annually; and

  biological monitoring for workers who may be exposed to lead, cadmium or arsenic as part of their
  work. at the time of obtaining biological monitoring samples, employees are also counselled on
  proper respirator fit and use, personal hygiene, working and eating habits, smoking, alcohol and
  drug intake, and potential sources of metals exposures outside of the workplace.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                      51

constancia is a remote site and many workers travel long distances to work eight- or 14-day rotation
shifts. they remain on-site during their shift rotation, staying at company-provided accommodation.
there are a variety of health and wellness services and amenities available to them at the camp,
including a medical centre, a soccer field and a volleyball court. constancia employees are offered
massage therapy and chiropractor services semi-annually. we also host our own “olympic games”,
which include chess and table tennis competitions.

wellness programs, run by employee wellness committees, have been launched at each location. the
programs include lunch and learns, walking competitions, newsletter articles and targeted campaigns
for common topics like cold and flu, allergy awareness and managing stress. your health matters here
is a place on the corporate intranet for employees to share health and wellness information and to
propose corporate donations to health-related programs that are meaningful to them.


2015 performance highlights


corporate

  our lost time accident (lta) frequency was 0.3 per 200,000 hours worked, compared to 0.1 in the
  previous year. lost time accident severity, which reflects the number of days missed, was 11.4
  versus 4.7 in 2014. while performance was not at our record 2014 level, it was still a strong year
  for safety. the major difference was in the increased number of ltas in the first half of the year at
  constancia, which, combined with fewer hours worked (about half of the previous year), resulted
  in the significant increase in lta frequency.


lost time accident
frequency                                                lost time accident severity




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                    52

manitoba

 safety performance was bolstered by a number of new processes and a strong emphasis on
 potentially serious incidents:
   we introduced the incident cause analysis method (icam) for investigating incidents and near
   misses. icam helps determine root causes so that appropriate action can be taken. twenty-four
   icam investigators were trained, including management and union members.

   department heads held regular “safety stand-downs” with their crews to discuss pressing safety
   issues (incidents or trends).

   the metallurgical surface departments introduced the “take five” safety card system. in a
   process similar to the five-point safety card system used in the underground mines, workers
   identify hazards on a take five card before starting a new activity. the system is credited with
   helping drive noticeable improvement in the safety performance of the zinc plant and flin flon
   mill.


peru

 the start of 2015 brought substantial change to the peru team with the transition from a
 construction project to operations. safety performance slipped in the first half of the year, and
 included two serious close calls, which prompted an increased focus on safety controls, procedures
 and communications. through a series of safety talks, we reinforced basics like pre-work job safety
 analyses. to help nurture a safety culture, the peru management team also mandated weekly
 safety audits conducted by department heads and started weekly, one-hour safety chats with
 supervisors and contractors. these actions contributed to noticeable improvement in the second
 half of the year.

 we also had to address transportation safety issues related to the large number of trucks hauling
 concentrate from the mine to the port at matarani. see the constancia case study to learn more.


arizona

 despite the significant drilling campaign, there was only one reportable incident in 2015, related
 to an ergonomic issue.

 most of the year was spent preparing health and safety systems and processes to be scaled up for
 construction. this included:
   developing an environment, health and safety policy based on the hudbay corporate policy and
   local health and safety standards;

   establishing a joint occupational health and safety committee;




hudbay     2015 annual and csr report                                                                 53

   introducing the “take five” safety card system;

   establishing safety golden rules for high-risk tasks;

   installing “lone worker” gps tracking system for remote workers (surveyors, geologists, etc.);
   and

   implementing an online material safety datasheet system (now called an sds system).

more on
health and safety

  one of our summer students in manitoba                   in peru, we offered a parenting skills
  developed an innovative stress less                      course to employees and their spouses.
  campaign, meeting with work crews to                     at the end of the session, one-on-one
  discuss stress and mental health, and to                 counselling was available free of charge
  present wellness and coping strategies.                  to those who wanted it.
  she also ran a stress less challenge in
  which participants completed weekly
  questionnaires about their physical
  activity and wellness for a chance to win
  prizes.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                   54

our people
our workplace
our business depends on qualified, conscientious people to achieve our goals. with our sites at
different stages of operation, we continually evolve our human resources practices in line with local
business requirements and the expectations of the people we need to attract, retain and engage.

our recruitment processes prioritize hiring locally, ensuring job candidates represent diverse
backgrounds, and planning for succession to top roles.

we offer safe and meaningful work and competitive pay and benefits wherever we operate.
employees are actively involved in continuous improvement projects aimed at driving operational
efficiencies and cost savings. information sharing and knowledge transfer across our operations is
encouraged through short- and long-term international assignments, a vibrant intranet and online
tools, and frequent senior management visits and communications.

in accordance with our code of business conduct and ethics, all individuals are to be treated with
respect and dignity. we do not tolerate discrimination on the basis of race, colour, religion, gender,
national origin, age, sexual orientation, disability or any other category protected by applicable laws.
there is also zero tolerance for fraud or corruption. violations of the code are subject to prompt and
consistent action, which may include termination. employees are encouraged to report issues of this
nature to a supervisor or department head, or to the confidential whistleblower hotline.

we respect the rights of workers to join unions and engage in collective bargaining without
interference or fear of retaliation, and we work to build productive relationships with these unions in
order to collaborate on key matters. approximately 62% of our workforce (1,053 employees) is
represented by a union.

to promote diversity and inclusion, we hold aboriginal cultural awareness workshops for hudbay
employees in canada. approximately 13% of our manitoba workforce self-identifies as aboriginal,
and we want to make sure that our people respect and understand one another.


2015 performance highlights


manitoba

  labour negotiations took centre stage. we successfully negotiated new three-year collective
  agreements with seven bargaining units. while six of the agreements were negotiated without
  any labour disruption, we experienced a 118-day strike by one bargaining unit. we chose to




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                      55

 operate during this strike and safely achieved our 2015 production guidance. this choice ensured
 that we upheld our commitments to our communities and other stakeholders.

 we hired 160 people in 2015, primarily at the lalor mine, while we were still ramping up
 production. one of our challenges was that the experienced miners, tradespeople and technical
 support people needed were not available until later in the year.

 the continuous improvement program delivered financial benefits of more than c$4 million in
 2015, for a total of over c$13.5 million since the program began in august 2013. see the manitoba
 case study to learn more.


peru

 constancia employed more than 400 local people in 2015, mostly from the communities of
 uchucarco and chilloroya. see local hiring and skills development to learn more.

 our human resources team focused on building a onehudbay culture and making a smooth
 transition from construction project to permanent workplace through attention to matters like
 work conditions, pay and benefits, hiring procedures, management of complaints and professional
 development.

 employee engagement initiatives included “rijchariy”(a quechua word meaning “wake up”), to
 encourage idea sharing, and “acerqémonos” (a spanish word meaning “get closer”) meetings
 aimed at building team spirit. we also created a telecommunications room with internet access
 and phones so that workers can stay in touch with their family and friends while at the mining
 camp.


arizona

 our workforce increased with the hiring of employees in various functional roles (legal,
 environment, hr, project management, community relations, government affairs, it, safety, and
 accounting). as a result, there was significant time spent educating our workforce on
 environmental, health and safety policies, hudbay’s code of business conduct and ethics, timely
 disclosure confidentiality and insider trading policy, onehudbay, and various systems and
 processes.

 to promote employee well-being, the wellness committee organized physical fitness activities
 including walks and hikes (many of which supported local charities), along with lunch and learns on
 health topics. to support teamwork and camaraderie, we hosted potlucks and regular “get to
 know one another” luncheons at local restaurants. at year-end, we relocated to a new office
 building, combining two former buildings into one large space.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                 56

corporate

  joining together to support community projects is a big part of the culture at our toronto head
  office. in 2015, the 10-person hudbay ride to conquer cancer team raised nearly c$68,000.

more on
our workplace

hudbay has a talented and generous workforce. to recognize their work in local communities, we
held our first-ever hudbay community champions event. employees were invited to nominate
colleagues, and more than two dozen nominations were received. kudos to our winners:

  fermin samorano, arizona, for his support of various youth and education programs in tucson and
  his tireless efforts on behalf of the rosemont scholarship program

  bob lyons, manitoba, for his volunteer work in flin flon and significant contribution to the
  environmental sustainability of the city

  martine becker, corporate, for her dedicated efforts on behalf of children’s charities and
  holocaust awareness in toronto

  henry rojas, peru, for his extraordinary efforts to build strong relationships between hudbay and
  the communities of chilloroya and uchucarco

award winners were recognized at our annual shareholders’ meeting, and hudbay made a
$1,000 donation on behalf of each winner to the charity of his or her choice.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                   57

our people
training and
development
as a company with distinct locations and diverse needs, hudbay provides a wide range of formal and
informal training and development opportunities to help employees perform their jobs capably and
fulfill their career aspirations:

  many of our people are hired from local communities. we offer a variety of training programs to
  help them qualify for work at hudbay and to advance their careers within the company. see local
  hiring and skills development for current programs.

  as the company grows, there is increasing emphasis on developing leaders. we introduced
  leadership training for all managers in peru and conducted leadership skills seminars in arizona.

  we encourage knowledge transfer across geographies and have multiple cross-company teams
  and opportunities for people to take short- or long-term assignments at different locations. those
  who take on expatriate roles are expected to transfer their knowledge and skills to the local
  workforce.

  we provide english and spanish language training to support communications between individuals
  across hudbay.

  in manitoba, apprenticeship programs cover a wide range of trades including electrician,
  boilermaker/welder, mechanic, machinist, pipefitter and carpenter.

  in peru, we have developed several training programs, attended by 522 local participants in total.
  173 participants were hired after completing the training sessions successfully. these programs
  enhanced the capabilities of operators, drivers, mechanics, environmental monitors, and specialists
  on food preparation and housekeeping.

more on
training and development

   our constancia human resources team introduced a “grow on the job” program that gives
   employees opportunities to take short-term assignments in different roles, whether by filling
   in for somebody on vacation or strictly for career development purposes.




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                                                   58

social impact
for close to 90 years, hudbay has been part of the positive impact a
well-managed mine can have on people, on communities and on entire regions.
that experience guides us in building strong relationships and making a
valuable contribution wherever we are present.

$2.8                                   $25.9
million                                million
in funding to local communities        in goods and services purchased from
including charitable donations         local enterprises near constancia


$17.7                                  1st public infrastructure
million                                project
in goods and services purchased from   completed with funding from hudbay

suppliers in northern manitoba and     under the peruvian works for taxes

northeast saskatchewan                 program




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                           59

                               “local workers take ownership. constancia is ‘our mine and we’ll
                               take care of it.’ that pride, that ownership, is huge for us.” it’s one
                               of the main reasons, notes john gutierrez, an industry veteran
                               with decades of experience in mining in the us, chile and peru,
                               that hudbay places such importance on hiring people from local
                               communities. of course, in a remote location, developing a trained
    “we’re employing and
                               workforce requires a long-term commitment. fortunately,
    training people from
    nearby communities,
                               constancia is a long-life mine. “right now,” says john, “we’re
    which provides these       employing a comparatively small number of people from our two
     people with lifelong      nearest communities, uchucarco and chilloroya, in mining
          benefits.”           operations, but we’re training people – gradually getting them up
                               to the 240-tonne trucks and the bigger shovels.” drawing from the
    john gutierrez
                               local labour force simplifies logistics and scheduling, and provides
     mine manager,             people with lifelong benefits. as john notes, “the skills we give
         peru                  people, they can use anywhere, but they’re excited about working
                               here.”




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                      60

                                discovering new resources. that’s the name of the game in
                                exploration, and craig taylor has found it means both mineral and
                                personal resources. as the exploration manager for the manitoba
                                business unit, craig has had to develop skills as a presenter and a
                                teacher, because part of his job is helping first nations groups and
                                others living in mineral-rich areas understand how exploration, and
   “part of my job is helping
                                potentially mining, activities can impact their lives. “i like doing it,”
   first nations groups and
         others living in
                                says craig. “providing straightforward information about what we
      mineral-rich areas        have planned and how we’re going to go about it.” it’s an approach
         understand how         that’s appreciated. and it’s allowed craig – and his colleagues – to
         exploration, and       learn a lot. “you get the first nations perspective on things. that’s
      potentially mining,       why i try to get junior staff members involved in outreach
  activities can impact their   activities, because i’ve found the band leaders are very good at
              lives.”
                                explaining where they are coming from. and understanding
         craig taylor           different perspectives is always valuable.”

     exploration
  manager, manitoba




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                                                        61

social impact
economic contributions
hudbay strives to create sustainable value for our shareholders while simultaneously contributing to
social and economic progress in the regions where we operate.

in 2015, hudbay provided:

  1,700 permanent jobs, 200 contractor jobs (full-time equivalent positions based on hours worked)
  and 57 co-op and summer student jobs

  $189 million in wages and benefits

  $6.8 million in municipal taxes and grants

  $1.5 million in funding to local communities through land use payments (including lump-sum life of
  mine land acquisition payments), new housing and infrastructure related to resettlements

  $2.8 million in charitable donations and voluntary community investments

in 2015, our net payment to governments related to our projects and mining operations, other than
municipal taxes and grants, was a net credit of $34.1 million. in both canada and peru, government
tax policies create incentives for investments in new mines by reducing tax obligations while the
capital investment is recovered. as a result of hudbay’s substantial investments in the constancia,
lalor and reed mines, as well as lower market prices for the metals we produce, our income and
mining tax payments to government are relatively low. in addition, during 2015, we received refunds
from the peruvian government of value-added tax paid on construction expenditures on the
constancia project.


payments to governments

hudbay is a supporting company of the extractive industries transparency initiative (eiti) in its
efforts to establish a global standard for transparency regarding the host country governance of
natural resources and full disclosure of government revenues from its extractive sector. our peruvian
subsidiary, hudbay peru sac, as a member of the peruvian mining society, is supporting the eiti
process in peru.

in canada, the extractive sector transparency measures act (estma) was proclaimed into force on
june 1, 2015, and requires businesses involved in the resource exploration and extractive sector to
file reports on certain types of payments to foreign governments. hudbay was actively involved in
the resource revenue transparency working group (rrtwg), a collaboration of canadian




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                   62

exploration and mining associations and civil society organizations that promoted the need for
canada to adopt such a standard and developed a set of recommendations, to provide canadian
federal and provincial governments with a blueprint for a government payment reporting framework
that would serve the needs of both the data’s end-users (such as citizens, governments and
investors) and the reporting companies. estma is largely consistent with the recommendations of
the rrtwg, and in 2015 the industry and civil society members of the group were heavily engaged
with the government of canada on the development of guidance that will support companies’
disclosure obligations.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                               63

social impact
community development
mining done right can be a catalyst for positive change. we make strong efforts to leverage our
capabilities and resources to advance the sustainable development of communities near our
operations and create conditions in which our business and our neighbours can flourish.

hudbay’s community development efforts focus on:

  helping communities build capacity to ensure sustained prosperity;

  supporting community efforts to improve the quality of the natural environment; and

  contributing to social cohesion and community spirit.

when we enter a region, we engage with the communities to understand their social and economic
development needs and priorities. from there, we seek to create employment and business
opportunities for local people and we work with the communities to develop programs focused on
delivering lasting benefits.

in peru, we made specific commitments to invest in health, education and social development as part
of the land use agreements with the communities of uchucarco and chilloroya. multi-sectorial
committees for development (cmd), comprising hudbay and community representatives, approve
and oversee the projects being carried out using the proceeds of the agreements.

in addition, we signed co-operation agreements with communities in our indirect areas of influence,
which spell out social development projects that we will work on together within a specified
voluntary budget provided by hudbay. we engage with different levels of government and seek out
development projects that can be implemented as public-private partnerships. our technical
assistance office also acts as a lobby group for local municipalities, helping them qualify for public
and private funding of public investment projects.

in canada, hudbay’s first mine gave rise to the towns of flin flon and creighton, and we remain an
integral part of the social and economic fabric of the region. today, we prioritize educational support
and training, as a means of strengthening community capacity and building a local talent pool
available to hudbay and other employers. we are a primary supporter of the northern manitoba
mining academy and we have strong affiliations with local universities, colleges and high schools.

while the lalor mine resources and exploration potential provide a foundation that ensures we will
continue to operate in the region well beyond the 100th anniversary of the discovery of the first
deposit, in a matter of years 777 will reach the end of its life as an operating mine. while our efforts
to find additional resources, including the exploration of the war baby claim in 2015, have not been




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                        64

fruitful, we are working to optimize our cost structure in order to maximize the economic life of the
known reserves and assessing future options for the flin flon metallurgical complex. we have also
engaged a community planning consultant to assist us in 2016 in working with our colleagues and
with the communities around flin flon to help ensure a smooth and effective social and economic
transition. community leaders have noted that opportunities exist and enabling conditions need to
be identified for economic diversification, and hudbay is committed to supporting them in their
efforts.

in arizona, hudbay supports longstanding commitments related to well owner protection,
community water pipeline construction and water replacement mitigation plans. we have also
developed new programs and support priorities (see below).


2015 performance highlights


corporate

  we finalized our community giving and investment standard and local procurement and
  employment standard. the community giving and investment standard outlines the strategic
  approach that hudbay sites are expected to follow for voluntary support, contributions and
  investments in local communities. it emphasizes community involvement, mutual benefit,
  partnerships, sustainability and capacity development.


arizona

  in keeping with the new corporate standard, we formalized our arizona contribution policy,
  establishing clear support priorities: education (in particular, science, technology, engineering,
  environment, agriculture and mathematics initiatives); social services; military and veterans
  support; job training, research and development; and infrastructure. our employees are very
  active in our community programs and were surveyed on their support preferences as part of the
  policy development process.

  we introduced an employee giving program, in which the company matches 50% of employee
  contributions through united way of tucson and southern arizona to an annual maximum match
  of $1,000 per person.

  ongoing financial commitments include the following:
    three-year, $10,000 per year commitment to the national math and science initiative earmarked
    for the sahuarita school district in sahuarita, arizona

    $24,000 in scholarships provided to 10 high school students and three military veterans




hudbay     2015 annual and csr report                                                                   65

   sponsorship of el tour de tucson cycling event

   ongoing partnership with the university of arizona and department of natural resources to
   support graduate student research


peru

 in addition to fulfilling the annual social development commitments under our land use
 agreements, we completed our first project under the peruvian works for taxes program. this
 program allows a company to pay up to half of its income tax through contributions to public
 infrastructure projects in communities near its operations. hudbay funds were used to build an
 irrigation system in the district of livitaca.

 as a way of supporting the “sierra productiva” project for agricultural entrepreneurs, hudbay
 co-financed a dairy plant in the district of velille together with the ministry of agriculture.

 the global indigenous development trust north/south exchange program presented a unique
 opportunity for local community leaders from chumbivilcas province to take two trips to canada
 to see canadian best practices in mining and agriculture. with hudbay’s financial support,
 participants took part in workshops and hands-on training in timmins (an ontario mining
 community), visited farms, and met with municipal, government and community leaders in
 toronto.


manitoba

 we agreed to donate company property to the town of snow lake for a new ems station.

 hudbay donated c$206,847 to community initiatives and university research benefiting the flin
 flon/snow lake area, primarily in the areas of health, education, environment, culture and sports.
 major contributions ($10,000 or more) included:
   flin flon community adult learning centre sponsorship

   united way of winnipeg

   flin flon bombers junior hockey team

   green project – multi-year project aimed at accelerating restoration of forest land around flin
   flon and creighton




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                   66

more on
community development

  our arizona business unit has a program for awarding grants of $750 to $5,000 to local public
  schools. in 2015, sunnyside school district received a grant to support the lauffer middle
  school sustainable garden. the school is in an area where fresh produce is unavailable and/or
  unaffordable. to teach students lessons in science and nutrition, the school has a functional
  garden with 17 planting beds and 11 fruit trees. not only do the students maintain the
  garden, but they also sell the produce to staff, community and family members. proceeds go
  towards purchasing seeds and supplies. hudbay’s $750 grant was used to buy seedling plants
  and packets, garden hoses, soil, fertilizer and gloves.


  our $5,000 grants included a donation to pima county joint technical education district
  (jted) to support development of a joint laboratory for agri-science and vet science in amphi
  school district.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                               67

social impact
local hiring
and skills development
local hiring and skills development can generate significant economic benefits for the communities
near our operations and is often identified as a high priority for stakeholders. we know from
experience that we benefit too, because it builds our talent pipeline and strengthens community and
employee relationships.

in manitoba, we are a member of the northern manitoba sector council (nmsc), and we partner
with the nmsc, workplace education manitoba (wem), university college of the north (ucn),
workplace essential skills training (west) centre and first nations communities on training to
support first steps in mining career paths. we recruit local job candidates through community
meetings and relationship building, and we provide basic industry and mining skills training so that
candidates can succeed in their roles once they join hudbay. hudbay is also a strong supporter of the
northern manitoba mining academy.

in peru, we have hired approximately 2,900 people in total from the surrounding communities,
primarily from the rural communities of uchucarco and chilloroya. in 2015, local employment was
reduced to 400 people as construction ramped down and hudbay worked with local communities to
help people transition to other livelihoods. we continue to prioritize local hiring and look for
opportunities to build the talent pool. to this end, we have partnerships with local technical
institutes for semi-skilled trades and heavy equipment training. the intent is to help local people
acquire skills through hudbay-sponsored training programs and on-the-job experience so that they
can apply for future jobs, with our company or others in the region.

in arizona, there is a wealth of mining skills in the area near the rosemont project, which we are
drawing on as the project progresses. we also want to help build the local talent pool. we have a
longstanding relationship with the department of natural resources at the university of arizona
through funding and a field laboratory that gives students an opportunity to perform work at our
on-site test plots. the program has resulted in a number of master’s degrees, theses and papers,
helping equip students with the credentials they need for their future careers. we are in discussion
to create a mining industry channel for high school students through the local joint technical
education district (jted). jteds offer career and technical education programs to public high school
students up to age 22.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                    68

2015 performance highlights


peru

 constancia employed more than 400 local people in 2015, mostly from the communities of
 uchucarco and chilloroya. the majority work as general labourers in operations and logistics, and
 in hospitality jobs at the camp. forty-three local people completed technical training funded by
 hudbay and now work in advanced jobs, operating heavy equipment or providing technical
 assistance in the processing plant.

 as part of our new recent graduate trainee program, 11 engineers and 15 technicians are
 participating in a rotational program, which gives them the opportunity to work in different parts
 of the processing plant. during the one-year period, they receive full pay and benefits. we hope to
 hire them permanently at the end of the year.


arizona

 we awarded several grants to local schools for science, technology, engineering, environment,
 agriculture and mathematics (what we call “steeam”) initiatives, including: $5,000 to the rising
 school for a robotics program; $5,000 to continental school district for a math intervention
 program; $5,000 to pima county jted to develop a laboratory for agri-science and vet science; and
 $5,000 to walden grove high school to install smart boards in advanced placement (ap) math and
 science classrooms.

 we participated in the 4h junior livestock auctions, which provided nearly $20,000 in scholarship
 funds to science programs for high school students in two counties near the project site.

 four interns from san miguel high school worked at the hudbay arizona business unit offices. the
 high school is located on tucson’s economically disadvantaged south side. students take a full
 college preparatory course load while simultaneously holding internships in corporations and
 earning nearly 40% of their school tuition.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                   69

manitoba

 we revised our first nations training to employment process to address shortcomings identified in
 the 2014 program. a joint initiative of hudbay, local first nations communities and government
 agencies, the process is aimed at helping people gain the skills needed for work at hudbay. our
 team is now involved earlier in the process, screening and interviewing candidates before they start
 any of the training programs. we expect this new approach will lead to more people meeting
 hudbay’s essential skills requirements and being hired once they complete the training.

 other first nations employment and training activities included:
   presenting hudbay job opportunities and hiring processes to women at the saskatchewan indian
   institute of technologies – creighton work prep centre. attendees included aboriginal women
   who had just completed a 16-week carpentry course and welding students from northland
   college.

   participating in the northern connections job fair sponsored by flin flon aboriginal friendship
   centre and making mining presentations to high schoolers and adults at the opaskwayak cree
   nation oscar lathlin collegiate job fair.

   participating in a one-day event at norway house cree nation, where we delivered our mining
   101 presentation and provided an overview of job opportunities for qualified candidates.

more on
local hiring
and skills development

  hudbay has a close working relationship with the northern manitoba mining academy. in
  2015, some of the training needed by the lalor mine was conducted at the academy to relieve
  the workload at the site. in addition, six newly hired general labourers from flin flon trained
  for six weeks at the academy and the 777 north mine before starting their jobs at lalor.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                  70

social impact
local
purchasing
spending on local goods and services is one of the ways in which we contribute to the sustainability
of our host communities. it leads to more local jobs and income, transfers skills and technology, and
helps create vital domestic business networks. importantly to us, local purchasing can also lower
costs in the long run and contribute to our social licence to operate.

hudbay’s approach to local purchasing is guided by five principles: mutual benefit; fairness,
competitiveness and transparency; targeted capacity development; informed and integrated
decision-making; and collaboration with community representatives and available supporting
organizations.

in peru, we are honouring commitments to give first consideration to local suppliers for services such
as equipment rental and catering, as set out in the life of mine community agreements. we also help
them register their business and formalize quality standards and procedures so they can qualify for
potential business opportunities with other companies, and we work with them on sales and
marketing strategies.

in manitoba, we have longstanding relationships with local transportation and construction
contractors. we work closely with these suppliers, often helping them establish systems and
processes to fulfill their social and environmental responsibilities.


2015 performance highlights


corporate

  we finalized a corporate local procurement and employment (lp&e) standard aimed at ensuring
  that, at each site, we actively identify opportunities for supporting and utilizing local workforce
  skills and business capacity to provide goods and services, include lp&e when negotiating
  community agreements, and integrate lp&e into ongoing business processes.


manitoba

  payments to suppliers located in our region of northern manitoba and northeast saskatchewan
  totaled $17.7 million in 2015.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                     71

 our exploration team met with the opaskwayak cree nation (ocn) nakow mining and supply
 company to discuss possible partnerships in the area of early exploration. this type of partnership
 has worked for us before, and we presented an overview of geophysical activities, challenges and
 risks.


arizona

 in preparation for when our permits are received, we created an online contractor and vendor
 management system accessible from our corporate website. the system allows contractors,
 vendors and suppliers to identify themselves and their capabilities so they can be considered for
 future work.

 we also met with local unions, contractor groups and government representatives to inform them
 of potential future business opportunities.


peru

 about 60 of the contractors working at constancia are from local communities. most are focused
 on trucking and hospitality. total purchases from local enterprises were $25.9 million.

 in 2015, we worked with the cmds (community development committees) in uchucarco and
 chilloroya to buy 25 trucks that they could rent to local contractors to transport constancia
 concentrate to the port of matarani.

more on
local purchasing

  founded in 2013, el nandito is a chilloroya bakery owned by local entrepreneur felipe quispe.
  one of el nandito’s local customers is newrest, hudbay’s catering and housing contractor,
  which buys about 4,000 loaves of bread daily.




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                                                   72

social impact
community relations
as with any mining company, hudbay’s presence can create both opportunities and concern for local
residents and indigenous people. engaging with these communities in an open and inclusive way is
vital for earning our social licence to operate. we must address their concerns about mining and
competing land use priorities, and demonstrate how our operations can provide meaningful,
long-term benefits. above all, we must maintain respect, trust and understanding.

each business unit conducts its own stakeholder analysis and implements a stakeholder engagement
plan to build relationships, understand local concerns, and respond to them. this requirement is
documented in our stakeholder engagement standard. we also formalized a company-wide
community response standard (also known as a grievance process) to ensure complaints can be
signaled and then appropriately documented, investigated and addressed.


manitoba

in manitoba, we engage regularly with the flin flon and snow lake communities. recent discussions
have focused on training and job opportunities for the people of northern manitoba, the impact of
the lalor mine on the town of snow lake, and engagement with first nations communities.

we place particular emphasis on engagement with first nations communities locally. the
communities nearest hudbay are opaskwayak cree nation, mosakahiken cree nation and mathias
colomb cree nation in manitoba and three communities in saskatchewan that are part of the peter
ballantyne cree nation. through meetings, school presentations, mine tours, open houses and
working together on joint initiatives (usually related to employment), we seek to improve
understanding of one another and build constructive relationships. hudbay’s full-time aboriginal
liaison officer coordinates our efforts and facilitates dialogue. in addition, the vice president of our
manitoba business unit co-chairs the minister’s mining advisory council, which brings together first
nations leadership, industry representatives and the government of manitoba to ensure first
nations communities benefit from the development of new mines.

we have a court injunction preventing members of mathias colomb cree nation (mccn) from
blocking access to our sites, as a result of blockades they staged at the lalor site in 2013. hudbay is
only seeking free access for employees and contractors to our sites. the injunction is not a lawsuit
and it does not prohibit members of mccn or other communities or community companies from
bidding on hudbay contracts or seeking employment. we recognize it as an ongoing relationship
challenge, which makes it difficult for the community to fully realize the benefits and opportunities
that our operations can offer, and we are seeking a path to restore our collaboration with mccn.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                       73

hudbay is a member of the canadian council for aboriginal business (ccab) and participates in its
progressive aboriginal relations (par) program. we are working to progress from par’s
“committed” category to the bronze certification level. certification confirms that we have practices
in place to be a good business partner and great place to work, and demonstrates our commitment
to prosperity in aboriginal communities.


peru

in peru, there are two communities within our direct area of influence – uchucarco and chilloroya.
both signed life of mine land use agreements with hudbay in exchange for portions of their
community-owned land. we maintain community relations offices in both communities and engage
frequently with residents on a wide range of topics, most often related to fulfilling commitments
under the agreements.

we have signed co-operation agreements with a number of communities within our indirect area of
influence. under these agreements, we commit to working together on social development projects
within a specified budget provided by hudbay. in 2015, we began building relationships with
communities along the route from constancia to the port of matarani where we transport
concentrate. see details below.


arizona

the rosemont site is close to a major urban area. since acquiring this project in 2014, we have
worked to both understand the aggregate views of local stakeholders and engage directly with the
individuals and groups most interested in, and connected to, the project. we believe that a robust
permitting process contributes to the development of world-class mines, and it is in that spirit that
we are engaging in the regulatory process to secure the final permits needed to advance the
rosemont project.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                     74

circles of influence




2015 performance highlights


corporate

 most of our employees live in the communities where they work. in 2015, we held a community
 champions event that recognized them for their service to the community, through volunteerism
 or on behalf of hudbay. see our workplace to learn more.


arizona

 we took a number of steps in 2015 to build our relationships with local communities, adopting the
 approach of small group and one-on-one meetings with government officials, community groups
 and neighbours to promote dialogue and build trust and understanding. see the arizona case
 study to learn more.

 our team conducted a focused community relations effort related to the water well drilling and




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                               75

 confirmatory drilling programs taking place at the site. they sent letters to people within two
 miles of the site, visited the homes of our closest neighbours, spoke to community and
 government leaders, and gave contact cards to all workers so they could direct any questions to
 the appropriate hudbay contacts.

 in developing relationships with native american tribes in the region, we have sought to share and
 build on our experiences in relationship building with first nations in manitoba. cultural sensitivity
 training is included in the rosemont environmental impact statement, and we will be developing
 programs to help crews and staff better understand and appreciate native american culture and
 people.


peru

 despite social unrest and opposition to certain mining projects in the region near constancia, we
 maintained constructive relationships with local communities through regular dialogue and
 collaboration on community projects.

 once we started transporting concentrate 468 kilometres to the port at matarani, we initiated
 communications with about 14 communities along the route. our community relations team
 contacted local authorities and community leaders beforehand. they also organized community
 meetings where they explained how they would mitigate issues like dust, listened to people’s
 needs and concerns, and offered to help these communities access government funds for their
 development projects. see the constancia case study to learn more.

 with the shift from construction to operations, constancia’s relationships with its communities are
 evolving and we have begun to look at the long-term role we can play in tackling poverty. we
 expect to become more involved in helping build business capacity by training entrepreneurs to
 market and sell their goods.

 there were 57 complaints or concerns registered through the site grievance mechanism in 2015.
 of these, 89% related to local supply chain issues, mainly pertaining to vehicle maintenance
 expenses and payments for services, and pending payments by third-party suppliers; 5% related to
 labour practices; and 6% related to human rights, and environmental issues and compliance.


manitoba

 among our efforts to strengthen relationships with first nations communities, we met with
 members of the peter ballantyne cree nation to discuss our duty to consult and hiring practices,
 exploration early notification and environmental concerns. several hudbay departments also
 participated in an information session with cumberland house cree nation to discuss exploration,
 environment and employment.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                   76

 with the planned expansion of the anderson tailings impoundment area near snow lake, we
 conducted a community information campaign to share plans, answer questions and address
 concerns. our team met with the snow lake mayor and town council and invited the public to
 drop-in sessions in flin flon and snow lake to speak with experts on the topic. we also conducted
 individual meetings with concerned citizens and solicited input through a community feedback
 form.

 there were seven complaints registered through our site complaint hotline. the main issues were
 related to health and safety, and environmental concerns. all were resolved in the reporting year.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                   77

social impact
resettlement
and land use
mining activities require land, which sometimes competes with land used for livelihoods, households
and communities. recognizing the concerns of local people and the risks to our business, we explore
alternatives to minimize disturbances and implement measures to protect human rights and cultural
heritage in every region where we wish to mine.

resettlement – when it became clear that the development of constancia would require the
displacement of 36 families from chilloroya, we established a resettlement negotiation process that
adhered to international standards for fairness and transparency (including the ifc performance
standards), and committed to providing equal or better housing with improvements like better
access to water and roads. the guiding principle for the process was collaboration – with community
leaders and government authorities as well as affected individuals.

all but two of the resettlements were completed in 2014. as part of our agreements, we have
continued to help the affected families get settled and will do so until 2016. agreements with the
two remaining families were reached in 2015 and they have relocated.

small-scale mining – small-scale, informal mining occurs in the pampacancha area of our constancia
mineral claims. hudbay peru and the community implemented a five-year agreement that allows
mining by a community enterprise, provided that it is restricted to the one area and is brought into
legal compliance. the agreement, which helped formalize the activity there and reduce the risk of
conflict, expired in june 2015 and we have begun negotiations to renew it.

cultural heritage sites – peru is a country rich in archeological heritage. before construction started,
we conducted a study to find any archeological sites on the property and obtained a certificate of
non-existence of archeological remains. the site has an archeological monitoring plan (amp) to
preserve cultural heritage and protect any archeological artifacts that may be found. as part of the
plan, we have marked protected areas, have erected signage and continue to recover new artifacts.
we also hold weekly cultural heritage and awareness training for project workers and community
members. the amp is regularly audited by the ministry of culture and all of our activities to date
have received government approval.

the rosemont environmental impact statement (eis) recognizes the potential impact of mine
operations on historic properties and traditional uses and perceptions of the land for the many
communities who have used it over the past centuries. ancestral human remains and sacred sites are
known to exist in the project area, as are traditional resource collecting areas. the usda forest




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                    78

service developed a historical properties treatment plan in co-operation with the tribes, the state
historic preservation office and rosemont. the plan is aimed at preserving cultural resources by
training work crews on identifying potential cultural artifacts and the steps to follow to protect
them. rosemont, in co-operation with the usda forest service, has developed a cultural awareness
training video which will be used to train employees and contractors about the requirements at
cultural sites.




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                                                  79

environment
from exploration to reclamation, our steps are guided by science, and
environmental considerations shape our plans. drawing on long experience
and the latest research, we continually work to minimize our environmental
footprint and enhance our contributions to sustainability and biodiversity.

2,180 kg                                     7.91%
of native grass seed was collected by
                                             of water
community members and purchased by
                                             used in operations is recycled and reused
constancia for progressive reclamation
activities



4.0%                                         35%
of the land                                  of manitoba’s tailings
we own, lease or manage is used for          are used as paste backfill to support
hudbay activities; the rest remains in its   underground mines
natural state




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                      80

                                when erika calmell del solar announced, after receiving her
                                degree in environmental engineering from universidad nacional
                                agraria la molina, that she was pursuing a career in the mining
                                industry, some of her friends were more than a little surprised. but
                                12 years later, the last five with hudbay at constancia, erika knows
                                she made the right choice. “i wanted to go where i felt i could do
  “hudbay’s commitment to
                                the most good, and that was mining. i also made sure that i worked
         operating in an
         environmentally
                                for companies that wanted to do things the right way – like
         responsible and        hudbay.” both during the construction phase of constancia and
  sustainable way has made      now that it is a working mine, erika and her colleagues in the
    it a place where i can      environment department have always been consulted by the
         make a positive        operations team. “they listen to our advice, and they make
           difference.”         changes based upon it.” in erika’s experience, hudbay’s
   erika calmell del            commitment to operating in an environmentally responsible and
                                sustainable way has made it a place where she “can make a positive
         solar
                                difference.”
     environment
    superintendent,
      constancia




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                                                 81

                                commenting on the ongoing construction and management work
                                at the flin flon tailings facilities, jay cooper observes, “we are
                                trying to build something as sustainable and long-lasting as the
                                pyramids.” clearly, as environment superintendent for the
                                manitoba business unit, jay is comfortable with setting and
                                meeting tough standards. that willingness to take on challenges
  “i help people understand
                                extends to teaching people outside the industry about responsible
    that hudbay uses best
   practices through every
                                mining – what it means and what it requires. “a large portion of
    stage of mining, from       the population has a skewed vision of what mining is today. it’s our
          exploration to        job to teach people how things have changed and that, as an
    reclamation, and that       industry, we are operating responsibly.” drawing on close to 20
         environmental          years in mining, jay helps people understand that hudbay uses
   management standards         best practices through every stage of mining, from exploration to
          have become
                                reclamation, and how environmental management standards, like
  incorporated into the way
                                iso 14001, have become incorporated into “the way we do
         we do business.”
                                business.”
         jay cooper

     environment
    superintendent,
   manitoba business
         unit




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                                                 82

environment
land and biodiversity
at every stage of the mining lifecycle, we strive to understand and actively manage our impacts on
biodiversity conservation and ecosystem services. our efforts help to minimize our environmental
footprint and related social and environmental risks, and strengthen hudbay’s reputation and
relationships.

while each site develops its own management plans specific to its unique location, they are all
expected to apply the biodiversity mitigation hierarchy throughout the mining lifecycle, in
accordance with our corporate biodiversity conservation standard. the mitigation hierarchy is a
widely accepted set of prioritized steps to alleviate environmental harm as far as possible, first
through avoidance of detrimental impacts to biodiversity, and then through mitigation (or reduction)
of these impacts and restoration of the area’s ecosystem. biodiversity offsetting is only considered
as a last resort.


manitoba

in manitoba, land and biodiversity are managed in line with actual operational activities. once the
activities and associated risks are defined during the year, annual biodiversity objectives and plans
are set and implemented, within the context of long-term environmental goals.

the manitoba business unit plan includes an ongoing commitment to boreal woodland caribou
conservation, financially supporting manitoba conservation’s caribou research and implementing
manitoba conservation’s postcard system for caribou sightings to aid in its research. boreal
woodland caribou are currently listed as threatened under the federal species at risk act and
manitoba’s endangered species and ecosystems act. we took specific measures in the design and
construction of the reed mine to reduce and mitigate any potential operational impacts on caribou,
which are known to spend most of their time on the west side of reed lake, 2.5 kilometres from the
mine site, with a highway and forest in between.




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                                                    83

peru

in peru, we are committed to ensuring there is no net loss of biodiversity as a result of our activities.
we have developed a biodiversity action plan (bap) in keeping with international standards (towards
sustainable mining and ifc) for protecting and conserving biodiversity. to date, the bap has involved
a series of mitigation plans, including:

  floral species management plan – protected plant species are being managed and monitored. we
  transplant plants to temporary nursery areas and conduct various germination, propagation and
  conditioning tests.

  revegetation programs – we plant native seeds and seedlings in degraded areas near the site and
  as part of our progressive reclamation activities. the seedlings are grown by community members
  in the hudbay nursery.

  rescue and relocation plan – after rescuing, captive breeding and relocating species listed as
  threatened (including reptiles and aquatic frogs) to similar areas off-site, we are now focused on
  monitoring how well the animals are adapting to their new habitat. the work is done in
  partnership with neighbouring communities.

  wetlands management plan – working with community users, we are undertaking measures to
  promote the conservation and/or restoration of wetlands and very wet grasslands near the site.


arizona

over the past six years, the arizona team has carried out extensive environmental baseline studies
and ongoing monitoring in the rosemont project area. the data collected has been used, in
consultation with stakeholders and regulators, to develop effective management plans and
incorporate environmental considerations into project design, so as to minimize potential impacts on
the biodiversity of the area.

to conserve water resources and biodiversity, we established the rosemont copper conservation
lands program, which includes mitigation proposed in the permitting process as well as additional
areas that hudbay has set aside for conservation purposes. under this initiative, hudbay arizona will
permanently conserve more than 4,827 acres of open land and allocate more than 1.9 billion gallons
per year of private surface water rights to the public. once finalized, this program will establish
secure, sustainable habitat for bats, birds, fish, frogs and other animals, including some endangered
species.

arizona is home to many prominent astronomical observatories that need full darkness for their
research, and the state has a number of “dark skies” ordinances intended to minimize light pollution.
we are working with suppliers to develop modified lighting systems and technologies at our facilities




hudbay     2015 annual and csr report                                                                       84

and on our equipment that will reduce potential impacts far below what the code requires, while
meeting the operational safety requirements set by the federal mine safety and health
administration.

rosemont also has cowboys on its payroll who tend cattle on the property. cattle ranching is a
traditional land use in the area, and the cattle help maintain ecosystem function and provide a buffer
around the proposed mine. once mining is finished, the area will revert back to ranchland.


2015 performance highlights


corporate

  we finalized our corporate biodiversity conservation standard, which sets out the minimum
  requirements for identifying environmental conditions and managing biodiversity conservation
  and ecosystem services at each site. the standard is consistent with hudbay’s commitment to
  implement the towards sustainable mining biodiversity conservation management framework
  and protocol.


arizona

  environmental baseline studies and monitoring programs completed at rosemont in 2015
  included: yellow-billed cuckoo surveys, chiricahua leopard frog surveys, bat surveys, cestus skipper
  surveys, chinchweed surveys, road kill surveys, groundwater level and quality review, stormwater
  quality sampling as well as ephemeral system measurements, meteorological monitoring,
  groundwater model updates, review and analysis of possible impacts on surface water and
  dependent species, and normalized difference vegetation index (ndvi) measurements of riparian
  areas.

  in late 2015, a draft of a second biological opinion was published by the us fish and wildlife
  service, based on additional information on new species, to ensure that proper measures are taken
  at the mine to prevent any negative impacts on endangered species. it is expected that this
  document will be finished by mid-2016.

  thirteen drill rigs operating on the east side of the mountain observed rosemont’s dark skies
  lighting plan. their performance was monitored by consultants, and only one minor incident (an
  errant light) occurred, which was subsequently corrected.




hudbay     2015 annual and csr report                                                                85

peru

 implementation of the constancia biodiversity action plan was assessed against both the ifc
 mitigation hierarchy and the towards sustainable mining (tsm) standard. the tsm assessment
 gave it a b level rating and recommended actions needed to bring it to an a level, all of which will
 be implemented in 2016.

 we implemented a native grass seed collection program in which community members are paid for
 the seeds they provide, which amounted to 2,180 kilograms in 2015. these seeds, along with
 native flora seedlings grown in our nursery, were used in progressive reclamation activities in the
 fourth quarter of 2015.

 approximately 80 security personnel were trained on environmental procedures and how to
 respond to wildlife sightings.


manitoba

 manitoba conservation conducted information sessions for reed mine employees on caribou
 research and how to avoid scaring caribou.

 we conducted environmental effects monitoring (eem) in accordance with metal mining effluent
 regulations (mmer). an external consultant performed the required field studies to assess the
 health of aquatic habitat downstream from ross lake, with input from environment canada and
 support from two aquatic biologists from the institut national de la recherche scientifique. the
 report will be submitted in june 2016.

more on
land and biodiversity

  constantino, the official mascot of the constancia mine, was welcomed by local school
  children and communities in 2015. constantino represents the andean lizard, one of the
  species preserved as part of the mine’s biodiversity rescue and relocation effort. we bring
  constantino with us to community events to promote environmental stewardship.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                     86

environment
energy use and
greenhouse gas
as users of fossil fuels to extract and transport ore, and electricity to run processing plants, hudbay
operations track energy consumption and associated greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. we strive to
reduce our impact by minimizing energy use and, where possible, reducing the carbon intensity of
our operations.

in manitoba, we set annual energy and ghg reduction objectives, which we strive to achieve through
energy savings and continuous improvement projects. we also closely monitor the regulatory climate
to guide our actions.

with constancia and rosemont still in the early stages of the mining lifecycle, the sites are just
beginning to develop energy management plans. there is, however, a demonstration solar power
site at the rosemont field office that generates credits under the tucson electric power program.
we are testing various solar technologies to determine their viability for our future use and to
provide feedback to the technology providers.

constancia coming into production at the start of 2015 has impacted hudbay’s overall energy and
ghg profile in several ways:

  our production of metal in concentrate more than doubled, and the substantial energy going into
  construction activities in peru in 2014 has been replaced by energy going to operations, thereby
  substantially reducing overall energy intensity per tonne of contained metal in concentrate.

  at the same time, electricity consumption has increased to power the constancia process plant,
  and electricity in peru has a much higher emission factor than the hydro-generated electricity in
  manitoba, thereby substantially increasing the indirect ghg emissions and increasing overall ghg
  intensity per tonne of contained metal.

  ghg emissions related to direct energy have also increased per unit of energy since in manitoba
  approximately 50% of direct energy consumption is from combustion of propane while all the
  direct energy consumption in peru is from diesel combustion, which has a much higher emission
  factor than propane.

hudbay submits an annual climate change report to the cdp (formerly called the carbon disclosure
project) that can be accessed from the cdp website.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                       87

2015 performance highlights


manitoba

 total energy usage declined by 2.9% from 2014, with incremental improvements throughout the
 operations. energy intensity, which is a measure of energy used per tonne of metal produced, was
 down by 4.1% from 2014.


peru

 with the rise in copper production, energy consumption and ghg emissions also increased. the
 site achieved steady-state operation in august 2015, which will enable us to establish a ghg
 baseline from which we can develop reduction targets.

 approximately 67% of ghg emissions are indirect emissions associated with the purchase of
 electricity from the peruvian electrical network, while the remainder are directly related to fuel
 consumption at the site.


arizona

 we have started developing a rosemont energy management plan, as mitigation measures for
 ghg emissions are part of the permitting process. among the proposed measures, the site design
 will minimize energy requirements and related emissions (for example, through the use of
 topography to minimize pumping). currently, enough solar energy is generated on-site to power
 the administration building.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                   88

  direct energy consumption
  (terajoules)
                                             2015      2014    2013

  heavy oil                                       0       0       0
  propane                                        629    700     580
  natural gas                                     0       0       0
  diesel                                     2,034     1,993   1,346
  light oil                                       0       4       6
  gasoline                                       11      12      11
  biofuel                                         0       0       0
  ethanol                                         0       0       0
  hydrogen                                        0       0       0
  other                                           1       0       0

  total                                      2,675     2,709   1,943


  total greenhouse gas emissions
  (kilotonnes of co2-equivalent and intensity)




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                   89

environment
air
air quality in and around our sites is important. we monitor and report air emissions to comply with
air quality laws and regulations in the countries where we operate.

air emissions from our manitoba operations are minor and related to vent and fugitive dust
emissions. we have a particulate monitoring program in place to ensure that particulates, which may
contain metals, remain below regulatory limits. readings are reviewed by the government and
external compliance auditors.

each year, a dust management plan is implemented at flin flon in line with the annual tailings
deposition plan and weather conditions. water cover on tailings areas is controlled to reduce the
potential for dust generation. we use a variety of methods for dust control on active tailings dams,
such as creating covers of calcium chloride sand, adding chemical binder on exposed beaches, as well
as utilizing a straw covering where possible. to minimize dust generation from vehicles, we have
paved about 50% of the main in-plant roads. road dust calculations for the year were higher than in
2014 due to a reassessment of applicable roadways.

we have a dust management plan at constancia, which includes the application of a dust
suppressant on roads in and around the site. we apply water to temporary and haul roads when dust
suppressant cannot be used. other measures include changing blasting schedules according to wind
conditions to minimize dust in nearby communities.

in its environmental impact statement, rosemont has committed to using numerous mitigation
measures to minimize air emissions, including operational and engineering controls for controlling
fugitive dust associated with tailings, paving roads within the mine site, using covers to control
emissions from mix tanks and settlers, using spray or physical enclosures for low-emission-potential
processes, using natural gas–powered buses, and including stockpile and loadout areas within the
enclosed stockpile building.


2015 performance highlights


manitoba

  in manitoba, negotiations have been initiated with the federal government on a new performance
  agreement for air emissions from the zinc plant, as required by environment canada for smelters,
  zinc plants and refineries.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                    90

peru

 in peru, air monitoring was carried out monthly in the community of chilloroya and quarterly in
 urasana and ichuni, and reports were submitted to regulatory authorities. there were no material
 exceedances of air quality standards during the year.


arizona

 our rosemont air quality permit is currently in litigation, which is not unusual in the us regulatory
 system. we are working through this process and do not expect it to delay overall project
 progress.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                  91

environment
water
astute water management is an essential component of hudbay’s growth strategy and operations.
our success depends on designing water-efficient operations and continuously monitoring our
consumption and discharge, while always maintaining our commitments to local users and regulatory
agencies within the jurisdictions where we operate.

each of our sites – and each community in which we operate – has different water needs and
challenges depending on the supply, demand and water quality within the watershed.

prior to developing a project, we assess water quality and availability as part of our feasibility and
environmental impact studies. these assessments also consider the water needs of local
communities. mining site designs and management plans incorporate water considerations
throughout the entire mine lifecycle. our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal,
state, provincial and local authorities, and we expect to comply with all applicable laws and
regulations. our commitment to the iso 14001 management standard requires us to pursue
continuous improvement in water management and periodically update our water-related risk
assessments.

we committed under our environment and social impact assessment (esia) at constancia to limit
the amount of sediment discharged to the nearby huayllachane, soropata and chilloroya rivers. to
address issues during the rainy season, we have put in place a robust sediment management plan
and installed structures designed to last for the life of the mine. controls include barriers like check
dams and silt fences, and structures for diverting water to collection and sedimentation ponds. as a
final control, the water is treated before being released to the water bodies.

at constancia, we also have a joint environmental monitoring committee of community members,
government authorities and company representatives that monitors impacts resulting from the site.
we provide committee members with technical training and support. an important part of the
committee’s mandate is to track and record surface water quality and flows, and groundwater
quality and levels.

in manitoba, water usage is managed through water rights licences and related reporting as well as
annual objectives to reduce the use of fresh water. discharge is managed at specified discharge
points using site-specific water treatment technologies and extensive water quality monitoring. the
environment department tracks water quality data and reports to management on an exception
basis.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                        92

in arizona, hudbay plans to implement technologies, such as dry-stack tailings, to minimize water
use. we also plan to replace all groundwater pumped with replacement surface waters from the
central arizona project (cap). our team conducted extensive baseline studies of surface and
groundwater conditions in the project area and has incorporated considerations of these conditions
into the development of the design as well as future management and mitigation plans for
rosemont.

hudbay submits an annual water report to the cdp (formerly called the carbon disclosure project),
which can be accessed from the cdp website.


2015 performance highlights


corporate

  hudbay had no material non-conformances relating to discharges into water in 2015. none of the
  effluents discharged from hudbay operations have a significant impact on the receiving streams or
  water bodies in which they are discharged. stringent regulatory requirements must be met at the
  point of effluent discharge.


manitoba

  total fresh water consumption rose by 0.9% due to increased production at the lalor mine and
  stall lake mill, which more than offset reductions at flin flon (1%) and reed (28%). water usage
  intensity decreased by 7.8%, confirming that we are using water more efficiently.


arizona

  rosemont received its clean water act section 401 certification from the arizona department of
  environmental quality, which is required before the army corps of engineers can issue a separate
  permit for the project under the federal clean water act.

  water impacts were minimal and limited to stormwater runoff from exploration drilling in 2015.
  water use was primarily associated with providing drinking water, stock watering, or water for the
  drilling program. the drilling program used a new mud recycling process to minimize the amount
  of water used at each drill, which reduced normal water use by an estimated 50%. stormwater was
  managed through controls placed on the disturbed areas. inspections and samples were taken as
  required, and there was only a minimal amount of runoff during the drilling.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                  93

peru

 commitments for surface and groundwater usage, as well as community water supply, were
 achieved within the respective conditions.

 effluent releases made in early 2015 from the main sediment pond and non-continuous releases
 throughout the year from road sediment ponds were within regulatory limits.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                             94

environment
waste and
tailings
all hudbay operations have waste management plans to reduce, reuse, recycle and responsibly
dispose of waste. waste rock from our mines and tailings from processing plants are a particular
priority.

waste rock is the mined rock that does not have economic value. it is managed on-site according to
strict and detailed environmental regulations and industry standards. wherever possible, it is reused
as fill in underground operations and site rehabilitation.

tailings are the finely ground rock, trace metals and process chemicals remaining after ore has been
processed. hudbay adheres to the mining association of canada’s highly regarded tsm protocol for
managing tailings. where water is plentiful, tailings have historically been piped into secure
engineered impoundments contained by tailings dams. tsm guidelines address best practices for the
location, design, construction, operation and closure of tailings facilities so that structures are stable
and comply with industry and government standards, and solids and water are properly managed.
independent reviews are conducted on our tailings management design and practices in
saskatchewan and manitoba and at constancia, in accordance with the tsm protocol.

safety measures used at our flin flon tailings impoundment system (fftis) and constancia tailings
management facility (tmf) include the following:

  frequent inspections by trained hudbay personnel.

  comprehensive inspections by third-party geotechnical engineering consultants.

  deposition plans produced by third-party engineering consultants to manage projected tailings
  production.

  detailed geotechnical designs for annual construction on the dams, completed or validated by
  third-party consultants and approved by regulators.

  an independent quality assurance/control monitoring program is in place during dam construction.

  upon completion of construction, detailed as-built engineering drawings are produced by the
  geotechnical engineering consultant, validated and submitted to regulators where required.




hudbay      2015 annual and csr report                                                                   95

in consideration of the environmental conditions in arizona, rosemont plans to construct a state-
of-the-art, dry-stack tailings facility, which would use significantly less water than traditional facilities,
allow for better dust control, be significantly more stable and reduce the potential of environmental
impacts to groundwater. the use of dry-stack tailings will also allow more effective and earlier
rehabilitation of the tailings area.


2015 performance highlights


corporate

  hudbay manages tailings in accordance with the tsm tailings management protocol and guidance
  documents. the protocol and documents were recently reviewed by an independent task force,
  and 29 recommendations were brought forward. we are participating in mac’s work to determine
  how the recommendations will be implemented and how they will affect us.


manitoba

  we conducted a community information campaign as part of the environmental assessment
  process for a planned expansion of the anderson tailings impoundment area (tia) to
  accommodate tailings through the life of the lalor mine. the new infrastructure will include
  additional water retention dams, a seepage collection system and associated pump houses, and a
  new spillway to replace the existing one. we must submit an environmental assessment (ea) to
  manitoba conservation and water stewardship for approval before work can begin. the ea
  addresses all physical, aquatic, terrestrial and socio-economic factors related to the expansion.


peru

  construction of the constancia tailings management facility (tmf) advanced far enough to permit
  the storage of the required water inventory for the start of operations and the deposition of
  tailings in the east tmf impoundment. construction of east and west embankments will be a
  feature of ongoing constancia operations during the life of the mine. tailings pumping and
  deposition facilities performed as designed during early production.

  in 2015, we commissioned a third-party engineering consulting firm to conduct a geochemical
  study of waste deposition. the firm’s recommendations, which were subsequently implemented,
  were to place non-acid generating material in the exterior boundary to minimize the potential for
  acid rock drainage.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                         96

arizona

 we plan to use the best available technology applicable to site conditions in the proposed
 dry-stack tailings facility. in 2015, our study of potential filtering systems included a visit to
 australia to see how the technology is being used in mines there.

more on
waste and tailings

  backfill is needed at lalor to support the underground mine. we are studying the potential
  use of tailings from the stall lake mill and/or the anderson tia in the generation of paste fill.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                   97

environment
closure and reclamation
all mines have finite lives, and all hudbay mines and development projects have closure plans that
are supported by financial provisions. once mining is finished, we aim to leave behind land that will
support productive uses for future generations.

as a member company of the mining association of canada, hudbay has committed its new projects
and operations to management of mine closure in accordance with the tsm framework on mine
closure. the framework consists of eight key elements, ranging from effective and sustainable
closure planning, to consultation with communities, continuous improvement, and monitoring of
reclamation programs. as part of this commitment, hudbay identifies opportunities to help
communities plan for sustaining economic development and incorporates community issues into
long-term closure considerations.

in addition to the tsm framework, hudbay’s mine closure planning in peru is guided by ifc
performance standards, as well as by peruvian mine closure regulations. in all jurisdictions in which
hudbay operates, mining companies are required to plan for closure before the start of operations
and to provide financial assurance to relevant regulatory agencies for proposed mine reclamation
activities.

over the course of our history, we have closed many mine sites, including some in environmentally
sensitive areas. in the process, we have developed core competencies in mine closure and
reclamation. our practices include the following:

designing for closure from the beginning – by considering closure from the start of new projects,
we can incorporate design features (like buildings that can be easily dismantled) to minimize both
our impact on the environment during and after operations and our costs of closure.

progressive rehabilitation – by progressively reclaiming areas once they are no longer needed for
mining activities, operations are able to start reclamation sooner and reduce the work to be done
when the mine closes. we have an ongoing rehabilitation program at flin flon, aimed at restoring
the environment in and around the complex and enhancing the visual surroundings. activities include
the removal of old structures and equipment, the reconfiguring and revegetating of tailings sites and
the greening of spaces between the community and the operations.




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                                                    98

closed mines – hudbay’s closed mine site activities are tailored to the applicable jurisdictional
regulatory requirements and the specific and unique characteristics of each site. closed mine site
activities can include monitoring activities and adaptive management strategies to ensure the
effectiveness of the reclamation activities until such time as reclamation objectives are determined,
in consultation with regulators, to be complete.


2015 performance highlights


peru

  progressive rehabilitation activities at constancia included the closure of two redundant waste
  rock facilities and other smaller areas used during construction. runoff water and native seeds
  were used in the reclamation.

  constancia’s closure plan was updated to incorporate recent studies and technological changes
  that will reduce costs and financial guarantees that hudbay must provide annually to the peruvian
  government. the updated plan was submitted in 2015 and approved by the ministry of energy and
  mines in june.


manitoba

  progressive rehabilitation activities performed in flin flon included tailings covering, seed planting
  and weed control on surrounding property.


arizona

  rosemont supports studies by the university of arizona’s department of natural resources on
  reclamation techniques, procedures, and the appropriate vegetation to use. these studies are
  systematic and sequential, starting with a study of the existing vegetation, moving into
  greenhouse studies and continuing on to field tests at the rosemont site. the results will guide
  the reclamation techniques that will be used and how plants will be managed. we collect data
  from the six reference plots and have had good success so far on seed mixtures and types of cover.
  the usda forest service will evaluate the reference areas before issuing its final permit.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                     99

csr
performance data
basis of reporting
all financial information is presented in us dollars except where otherwise indicated. all operating
data is reported using the metric system. some metrics are reported on both an absolute basis and
an intensity basis against kilotonnes of metal processed. safety data frequency rates are measured
per 200,000 hours worked.

data measurement techniques
data is measured or estimated, and operations are asked to explain significant deviations in
year-over-year trends. the performance data is reported at a mix of operational and corporate levels.
data is checked and approved at the site level, and also reviewed for consistency by the corporate
data collection team.

we provide safety and environmental incident definitions so that all operations report incidents
consistently. we calculate greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions using published factors for emissions.

most of the performance data for water and energy is metered. we purchase most of our electricity
from local grids. utility grid statistics are therefore used to compile purchased electricity-related
ghg numbers. we generate electricity at some of our project sites (such as constancia and reed) and
this energy is reflected in fuel consumption, while ghg numbers are calculated based on conversion
factors.

data for the indicators is collected and compiled using information submitted by each site on a
standard template. we provide instruction and criteria for gri g4 and towards sustainable mining
(tsm), and also supply a ghg emissions worksheet (developed by the mining association of canada).




hudbay     2015 annual and csr report                                                                   100

key performance data

economic

                                            2015         2014          2013          2012

direct economic value generated and
distributed (in $ millions) (ec1)

profit (loss) before tax              $   (331.4)   $     13.9    $    (53.7)   $     48.7

revenues                              $    923.1    $    507.5    $    500.9    $    702.6

operating costs
canada                                    (408.5)       (428.6)       (399.7)       (490.7)
us                                          (5.7)         (7.6)         (1.8)        (10.4)
peru                                      (186.0)         (8.7)         (9.7)        (13.0)
chile                                       (0.5)         (1.9)         (2.7)         (7.0)
colombia                                    (0.4)         (0.8)         (3.9)         (4.6)

total                                 $   (601.1)   $   (447.6)   $   (417.8)   $   (525.7)


employee wages and benefits
canada                                     157.1         156.5         160.8         190.6
us                                           9.3           4.6           1.1           1.9
peru                                        22.4          20.6          15.7          11.9
chile                                        0.0           0.0           1.2           1.8
colombia                                     0.2           0.2           1.2           1.3

total                                 $    189.0    $    181.9    $    179.9    $    207.5




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                      101

                                           2015       2014         2013       2012


payments to government
taxes paid
 canada                                     6.1       (21.1)        5.6       59.3
 us                                         0.0         0.1         0.0        0.7
 peru                                      28.0         5.8         1.5        0.0
 chile                                      0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
 colombia                                   0.0         0.0         0.0        0.2

total                                  $   34.1   $   (15.2)   $    7.1   $   60.2


municipal taxes and grants
 canada                                     6.7         7.8         7.6        7.5
 us                                         0.1         0.5         0.7        0.0
 peru                                       0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
 chile                                      0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
 colombia                                   0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0

total                                  $    6.8   $     8.3    $    8.3   $    7.5


penalties and interest paid
 canada                                     0.1         0.0         0.0        0.0
 us                                         0.0         0.3         0.0        0.0
 peru                                       0.0         0.2         0.0        0.0
 chile                                      0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
 colombia                                   0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0

total                                  $    0.1   $     0.5    $    0.0   $    0.0




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                            102

                                             2015          2014           2013           2012


payments to providers of capital
dividends paid                           $     3.6   $       3.8   $      18.5    $      34.7
interest payments made to providers of
loans                                    $   108.6   $     82.1    $      56.8    $        0.0

financing fees paid
 canada                                        1.3           0.9            2.8            6.0
 peru                                          1.2           4.6            0.0            4.6

total                                    $     2.5   $       5.5   $        2.8   $      10.6


other interest paid
 canada                                        0.0           0.0            0.0            0.1
 peru                                          0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0

total                                    $     0.0   $       0.0   $        0.0   $        0.1


capital expenditures – cash flow basis   $   490.6   $    890.9    $     878.7    $     510.7
cash and cash equivalents                $    53.9   $    178.7    $     593.7    $    1,343.9

payments – local communities for
land use (in $000s)
canada                                         0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0
us                                             0.0           0.0            0.0            0.0
peru                                         579.5       1,684.5       10,647.1       24,437.9

total land use payments                  $   579.5   $   1,684.5   $ 10,647.1     $ 24,437.9




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                                        103

                                                                             2015                    2014                    2013          2012


public benefit
community investment and charitable
donations (in $000s)
  canada                                                                     307.1                  602.8                    650.6       1,059.2
  us                                                                           63.5                 212.9                     48.4         60.7
  peru                                                                    2,435.7                3,103.0                 3,952.0          756.2
  chile                                                                          0.0                    0.0                    0.0           0.0
  colombia                                                                       0.0                    0.0                    0.0         23.5

total community investments and
donations1                                                          $     2,806.3          $     3,918.7           $     4,651.0     $   1,899.7


resettlement investment (peru)
(in $000s)                                                          $        957.5         $     7,857.0           $ 16,429.9        $   8,262.4

production (contained metal in
concentrate)
copper (000 tonnes)                                                          147.3                    37.6                    29.9         39.6
zinc (000 tonnes)                                                            102.9                    82.5                    86.5         80.9
gold (000 troy ounces)                                                       100.2                    73.4                    79.2         86.6
silver (000 troy ounces)                                                  2,791.5                   745.9                    772.5        824.0

metal production
zinc metal (000 tonnes)                                                      101.9                  105.1                     96.3        100.7


1. political donations are included in this total; however, in accordance with hudbay policy, political donations were $0.




hudbay       2015 annual and csr report                                                                                                       104

employees

                                      2015    2014        2013          2012

total workforce (g4-10)
number of full-time employees
 mbu                                  1,399   1,391      1,373          1,281
 ontario                                68      61          52             65
 arizona                                50      34        n/ap           n/ap
 new york                                0       8           8                 8
 peru                                  183     174         157            131
 colombia                                0       0           1             15
 chile                                   0       0           1             14

total full-time employees             1,700   1,668      1,594          1,516


employment1
number of part-time employees
 mbu                                     2      14    n/av – see total below
 ontario                                 0       0    n/av – see total below
 arizona                                 2       2    n/av – see total below
 new york                                0       2    n/av – see total below
 peru                                    0       0    n/av – see total below
 chile                                   0       0    n/av – see total below

total part-time employees                4      18          52             42




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                            105

                                         2015   2014        2013          2012


number of contract (term) employees
 mbu                                        7     18    n/av – see total below
 ontario                                    5      1    n/av – see total below
 arizona                                    0      0    n/av – see total below
 new york                                   0      1    n/av – see total below
 peru                                     187    138    n/av – see total below
 chile                                      1      0    n/av – see total below

total contract employees                  200    158          23             34


number of co-op and summer students
hired
 mbu                                       40     41    n/av – see total below
 ontario                                    3      2    n/av – see total below
 arizona                                    2      0    n/av – see total below
 new york                                   0      0    n/av – see total below
 peru                                      12      6    n/av – see total below
 chile                                      0      0    n/av – see total below

total co-op/summer students                57     49          43             39


number of employees represented by
collective bargaining agreements
(g4-11)                                 1,053   1,091      1,047            961

percentage of full-time employees
represented by trade unions             61.9%   65.4%     65.7%          63.4%

operational changes (la4)
minimum number of weeks provided
before operational changes (mbu only)       2      2           2                 2

negotiated into collective agreements
(mbu only)                                yes     yes        yes            yes

number of strikes or lockouts
exceeding one week (mm4)                    1      0           0                 0




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                              106

                                          2015   2014    2013   2012

employee turnover
region
 mbu                                       206    118    n/av   n/av
 corporate                                   5      7    n/av   n/av
 abu                                         9      1    n/av   n/av
 peru                                       32     53    n/av   n/av
 chile                                       0      0    n/av   n/av

total                                      252    179    n/av   n/av


age distribution
 <30                                     23.4%   18.4%   n/av   n/av
 30–50                                   40.5%   50.3%   n/av   n/av
 >50                                     36.1%   31.8%   n/av   n/av
gender
 male                                    75.4%   82.7%   n/av   n/av
 female                                  24.6%   17.9%   n/av   n/av

voluntary turnover rate (hudbay total)   11.4%    7.4%   4.3%   5.0%

involuntary turnover rate (hudbay
total)                                   3.6%     3.4%   4.1%   n/av

new employee hires2
region
 mbu                                       221    155    n/av   n/av
 corporate                                  12      7    n/av   n/av
 abu                                        23     36    n/av   n/av
 peru                                      160    183    n/av   n/av
 chile                                       0      0    n/av   n/av
 total                                     416    381    n/av   n/av
age distribution
 <30                                     40.6%   22.6%   n/av   n/av
 30–50                                   47.4%   64.0%   n/av   n/av
 >50                                     12.0%   13.6%   n/av   n/av




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                              107

                                            2015          2014         2013        2012
gender
 male                                      79.3%         82.9%         n/av        n/av
 female                                    20.7%         17.3%         n/av        n/av

net number of full-time employees
added (decreased)
canada                                        15            27           79           7
us                                              8           32            0          (7)
peru                                            9           17           26          57
colombia                                        0           (1)         (14)         15
chile                                           0           (1)         (13)         14

total                                         32            74           78          86


number of contractor full-time
equivalent staff (g4-10)
manitoba                                     274           245          316         381
peru                                        4,3373       9,595        6,438       2,972
arizona                                       55          n/ap         n/ap        n/ap
other                                           4           54           25           6

person-hours of work (including
contractors) (la1)
north america                           3,245,882     3,359,663    3,245,625   3,329,467
south america                           9,907,7053   20,458,806   13,781,606   6,459,441

total person-hours                     13,158,587    23,818,469   17,027,231   9,788,908


employees receiving regular
performance and career development
reviews (la11)
percentage reviewed4                         41%           22%          26%        n/av




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                                  108

                                         2015    2014    2013    2012

hudbay total workforce age
distribution (la12)
<30                                     13.0%    13.8%   11.4%   11.1%
30–50                                   47.9%    47.8%   47.4%   50.0%
>50                                     39.6%    36.6%   41.2%   38.9%

composition of governance bodies
and breakdown of employees
workforce diversity
 female (hudbay)
   mbu                                    187     182     n/av    n/av
   ontario                                 32      27     n/av    n/av
   arizona                                 24      15     n/av    n/av
   new york                                 0       0     n/av    n/av
   peru                                    28      35     n/av    n/av
   chile                                 n/ap       0     n/av    n/av
percentage of total workforce that is
female                                   16%      16%     17%     15%
 aboriginal (mbu only)                   n/av5    14%     13%     11%
 disabled (mbu only)                     n/av5     6%      5%      6%
 visible minorities (mbu only)           n/av5     6%      5%      6%

composition of executive
management and corporate
governance bodies
board of directors (ratio male to
female)                                   4:1     10:1     9:1    10:0
age distribution
 <30                                      0%       0%      0%      0%
 30–50                                    0%      10%     10%     10%
 >50                                    100%      90%     90%     90%
executive management (ratio male to
female)6                                 5.5:1    10:1    10:1    11:1




hudbay     2015 annual and csr report                               109

                                         2015     2014     2013     2012
age distribution
 <30                                      0%       0%       0%       0%
 30–50                                   64%      72%      64%      58%
 >50                                     36%      27%      36%      42%

ratio of annual compensation of
highest paid individual to mean total
compensation (g4-54)
canada (manitoba business unit,
excluding corporate office)              6.5:1    6.1:1    8.9:1    7.2:1
canada (including corporate office)     16.4:1   29.8:1   23.5:1   20.0:1
peru                                    10.0:1    9.5:1   11.3:1   12.8:1
united states (arizona business unit)    4.2:1    3.1:1    n/ap     n/ap

workforce represented in formal joint
management-worker health and
safety committees (la5)
percentage represented                  100%     100%     100%     100%

health and safety performance (per
200,000 hours worked, except where
noted) (la6)7
lost time accident frequency (lta)
 manitoba                                  1.0     1.0      0.7     n/av
 manitoba contractors                      0.7     0.8      0.3     n/av
 peru                                      0.7     0.0      0.0     n/av
 peru contractors                          0.1     0.0      0.2     n/av
 arizona                                   0.0    n/ap     n/ap     n/ap
 arizona contractors                       0.0    n/ap     n/ap     n/ap
 north america (not including mbu
 and abu)                                  0.0     0.0      0.0     n/av
 north america contractors (not
 including mbu and abu)                    0.0     0.0      0.0     n/av
 south america (not including peru)        0.0     0.0      0.0     n/av
 south america contractors (not
 including peru)                           0.0     0.0     44.1     n/av

total                                      0.3     0.1      0.4      0.3




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                    110

                                       2015   2014   2013    2012


lost time accident severity (sev)
 manitoba                              35.2   36.0    34.4   n/av
 manitoba contractors                  14.8   23.0     0.3   n/av
 peru                                  22.0    0.0     0.0   n/av
 peru contractors                       3.6    0.2     7.1   n/av
 arizona                                0.0   n/ap   n/ap    n/ap
 arizona contractors                    0.0   n/ap   n/ap    n/ap
 north america (not including mbu
 and abu)                               0.0    0.0     0.0   n/av
 north america contractors (not
 including mbu and abu)                 0.0    0.0     0.0   n/av
 south america (not including peru)     0.0    0.0     0.0   n/av
 south america contractors (not
 including peru)                        0.0    0.0   163.0   n/av

total                                  11.4    4.7    11.0    3.3


restricted work case frequency (rwc)
 manitoba                               1.8    2.2     1.6   n/av
 manitoba contractors                   0.0    0.4     0.6   n/av
 peru                                   0.2    0.0     0.0   n/av
 peru contractors                       0.0    0.0     0.4   n/av
 arizona                                0.0   n/ap   n/ap    n/ap
 arizona contractors                    0.0   n/ap   n/ap    n/ap
 north america (not including mbu
 and abu)                               0.0    0.0     0.0   n/av
 north america contractors (not
 including mbu and abu)                 0.0    0.0     0.0   n/av
 south america (not including peru)     0.0    0.0     0.0   n/av
 south america contractors (not
 including peru)                        0.0    0.0     0.0   n/av

total                                   0.4    0.3     0.6    0.8




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                            111

                                      2015   2014   2013    2012


medical aid frequency (ma)
 manitoba                             11.0   12.8    12.1   n/av
 manitoba contractors                 12.3   12.9     8.8   n/av
 peru                                  2.3    0.0     0.6   n/av
 peru contractors                      0.2    0.5     0.9   n/av
 arizona                               4.9   n/ap   n/ap    n/ap
 arizona contractors                   5.3   n/ap   n/ap    n/ap
 north america (not including mbu
 and abu)                              0.0    1.2     0.0   n/av
 north america contractors (not
 including mbu and abu)                0.0    2.1     0.0   n/av
 south america (not including peru)    0.0    0.0     0.0   n/av
 south america contractors (not
 including peru)                       0.0    0.0    70.5   n/av

total                                  3.0    2.1     3.0    4.7


first aid frequency (fa)
 manitoba                             22.1   28.5    26.0   n/av
 manitoba contractors                  6.0    8.2     3.7   n/av
 peru                                  4.8    0.4     1.8   n/av
 peru contractors                      0.6    1.3     2.4   n/av
 arizona                              17.2   n/ap   n/ap    n/ap
 arizona contractors                   5.3   n/ap   n/ap    n/ap
 north america (not including mbu
 and abu)                              0.0    3.7     0.0   n/av
 north america contractors (not
 including mbu and abu)                0.0    8.3     0.0   n/av
 south america (not including peru)    0.0    0.0    28.1   n/av
 south america contractors (not
 including peru)                       0.0    0.0   136.6   n/av

total                                  5.2    4.4     6.2    7.6




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                           112

                                         2015   2014   2013   2012


fatality (number)                           0     0      0      0
absentee rate (as a % of hours
scheduled to be worked)8                 n/av   n/av   n/av   n/av
reportable occurrences (defined as ehs
incidents required by hudbay policy to
be reported to our board of directors)    141    81    127     73




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                             113

benefits
                                             corporate                                 mbu
                                      full time          part time         full time           part time

                                                                                                members
                                                                                                 of 9338
                                                                                                  when
                                                                                                meeting
                                                                                                specified
life insurance                            yes                   no             yes               critieria
                                                                                                members
                                                                                                 of 9338
                                                                                                  when
                                                                                                meeting
                                                                                                specified
health care                               yes                   no             yes               critieria
disability and invalidity coverage        yes                   no             yes                 no
parental leave                            yes                   no             yes                 no
retirement provision                      yes                   no             yes                 no
stock ownership                           yes                   no             yes                 no
                                                                           management
other – critical illness insurance        yes                   no            only                 no
other – accidental death and
dismemberment insurance                   yes                   no             yes                 no


                                                        peru                             abu
                                          full time            part time     full time         part time

life insurance                                    yes              n/ap          yes                no
health care                                       yes              n/ap          yes                no
disability and invalidity coverage                yes              n/ap          yes                no
parental leave                                    yes              n/ap           0                  0
retirement provision                              yes              n/ap       yes (401k)            no
stock ownership                                   yes              n/ap          yes                no
other – critical illness insurance                yes              n/ap           no                no
other – accidental death and
dismemberment insurance                           yes              n/ap          yes                no




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                        114

1. separated out to report employment type by region for the last two years; therefore, data for the previous two years is not available (n/av) in this
  format as only hudbay totals were reported previously.

2. as per g4-la1 – report total number and rate of new employee hires by age, gender and region. la1 was not broken down into these subsections in
  reporting years prior to 2014; therefore, data for the two previous years is not available (n/av).

3. decrease due to reduced construction activities.

4. note that only full-time staff receive this review.

5. this information is not made available until june; therefore, we are a year behind in our public reporting.

6. vp levels. corporate data only.

7. la6 was not broken down into these subsections in reporting years prior to 2013; therefore, data for 2012 is not available (n/av).

8. concluded that the level of effort required to assemble this data accurately isn’t practical at this time.




hudbay        2015 annual and csr report                                                                                                                  115

society

                                         2015    2014    2013          2012

total number of incidents of
discrimination (and actions
taken) (hr3)                                01      0       0                0

land use disputes (mm6)                     0       0       2                0

resettlements (mm9)
number of households                       362     36       0                0
number of individuals                     150     150       0                0

employees trained in anti-corruption
policies (so4)
number                                    360     182     336              261
percentage of workforce                  21%     10%      21%              17%
percentage of employees given training
based on internal requirement            91%     n/av    n/av              n/av

employees that anti-corruption
policies have been communicated to3
number – management                       229     412   n/av – see above
percentage                               98%     100%   n/av – see above
number – non-management                   560     485   n/av – see above
percentage                               100%    100%   n/av – see above

governance body members that
anti-corruption policies have been
communicated to4
number                                     10      10    n/av              n/av
percentage                               100%    100%    n/av              n/av

governance body members that
received training on anti-corruption4
number                                     10      10    n/av              n/av
percentage                               100%    100%    n/av              n/av




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                          116

                                               2015        2014             2013           2012

average hours of training5
males in management                            19.65       n/av             n/av           n/av
females in management                          50.17       n/av             n/av           n/av
males in non-management                        51.86       n/av             n/av           n/av
females in non-management                      36.71       n/av             n/av           n/av

security practices (security personnel
training) (hr7)
hudbay security personnel trained in
human rights policies and procedures
                                                                         n/av – not previously
 number                                          15          15                reported
                                                                         n/av – not previously
 percentage                                    98%         100%                reported
contractor security personnel trained in
human rights policies and procedures
                                                                         n/av – not previously
 number                                         175         158                reported
                                                                         n/av – not previously
 percentage                                    99%          92%                reported
value of fines or sanctions for
non-compliance with laws and
regulations (so8)                          $   5,000   $   3,352     $      1,277     $     900

grievances about impacts on society
(so11)
number filed through formal grievance
mechanisms                                       67          78              110           n/av
number addressed during reporting
period                                           67          78              110           n/av
number resolved during reporting
period                                           65          67              103           n/av
number filed prior to the reporting
period that were resolved during the
reporting period                                  6          32             n/av           n/av
                           6
number of other concerns                                     78              704            109
 environment (en34)                               4                n/av – see above




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                              117

                                                                            2015                    2014                     2013                2012
  labour and commercial practices
  (la16)7                                                                        54                          n/av – see above
  resettlement/livelihood                                                         2                          n/av – see above
  human rights                                                                    1                          n/av – see above
  other                                                                           6                          n/av – see above

closure plans (mm10)
total number of operations                                                        7                      8                   n/av                    n/av
number of company operations that
have closure plans                                                               108                   10                       6                       7
percentage of total operations that
have closure plans                                                         125%9                   125%                      100%               100%
number of advanced exploration
projects that have closure plans                                                  0                      1                      4                       3
percentage of advanced exploration
projects that have closure plans                                            n/ap                   100%                      100%               100%
overall financial provision representing
the present value of future cash flows
relating to estimated closure costs per
canadian generally accepted accounting
principles (in $000s)                                              $ 147,027              $ 185,395              $ 141,566              $ 157,675


1. an employee in manitoba filed a harassment complaint against a co-worker. hudbay and the mines inspector investigated and the complaint was not
  substantiated. the complainant subsequently filed a human rights complaint and it is still going through the process. this number may be revised
  pending the outcome of that process.

2. same numbers as last year because this is a multi-year process. these are the same 36 households/150 people as we reported last year; some were
  resettled during the 2014 calendar year, some during the 2015 calendar year.

3. added to reflect g4 reporting guidelines. so4 was not broken down into these subsections in reporting years prior to 2014; therefore, data for the
  two previous years is not available (n/av).

4. governance bodies (board of directors) are only in toronto, canada, and therefore other regions were excluded.

5. our largest employee-based location did not provide details, so this information applies only to peru and arizona.

6. this line is the formal complaints from communities; allows transparency of concerns raised which are outside of the definition of “grievance”.

7. filed through a community grievance process; does not include grievances covered under a collective bargaining agreement.

8. three “extra” because tl, chisel and britannia (mbu) are closed but infrastructure continues to be used at these sites.

9. over 100% because there are three additional closure plans for non-operating sites at our manitoba business unit where infrastructure continues to
  be used.




hudbay       2015 annual and csr report                                                                                                                 118

environment

                                         2015    2014    2013    2012

direct energy consumption by
primary energy source (terajoules)
(en3)
heavy oil                                   0       0       0       0
propane                                   629     700     580     578
natural gas                                 0       0       0       0
diesel                                   2,034   1,993   1,346    475
light oil                                   0       4       6       5
gasoline                                   11      12      11       9
biofuel                                     0       0       0       0
ethanol                                     0       0       0       0
hydrogen                                    0       0       0       0
other                                       1       0       0       0

total                                    2,675   2,709   1,943   1,067


indirect energy consumption by
primary energy source (terajoules)

total electricity consumed               4,936   3,322   3,048   3,127

indirect energy sold/credit
(terajoules)

electricity                                0.4   n/av    n/av    n/av

total indirect energy consumed by
organization (terajoules)                4,936   n/av    n/av    n/av




hudbay      2015 annual and csr report                              119

                                        2015      2014     2013     2012

energy intensity (terajoules per
kilotonne of metal in concentrate)
(en5)                                    30.9      50.2     42.9     34.8

total direct and indirect greenhouse
gas emissions (kilotonnes of
co2-equivalent)
direct carbon dioxide emissions
(en15)                                 188.08    182.28   133.26    71.52
indirect carbon dioxide emissions
(en16)                                 267.22      6.91     4.84     4.60

total                                  455.30    189.19   138.10    76.12


ghg intensity (en18)                     1.82      1.57     1.19     0.63

emissions of ozone-depleting
substances (kg) (en20)                    0.0       0.0      0.0    850.5

nox, sox and other significant air
emissions (in kilotonnes)1 (en21)
sulphur dioxide emissions                 0.0       0.0      0.0     0.00
particulate                              0.162     0.17     0.16     0.04

total water withdrawal (000 cubic
metres) (en8)
surface water                          11,549    11,287   10,789   10,687
ground water                            2,6983     930      441      367
rainwater collected directly and
stored by the organization              7,1684    4,048    n/av     n/av
waste water from another
organization                                0     n/av     n/av     n/av
municipal water supplies                    0        1      0.01     0.06

total water withdrawal                 21,415    16,266   11,230   11,054




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                    120

                                                 2015      2014     2013      2012


percentage and total volume of
water recycled and reused (en10)
total volume (megalitres)                   16,944.37      n/av     n/av      n/av
percentage                                      7.91%      n/av     n/av      n/av

total water discharged (000 cubic
metres) (en22)5
to flin flon creek/ross lake/schist
lake                                           10,546     10,819   12,418   12,906
to anderson creek/wekusko lake                  4,594      3,939    4,180    3,626
to woosey creek/morgan lake                     1,106      1,184    1,123    1,368
town of snow lake sewer6                             0        8     n/ap      n/ap
to ground                                         217       187       35      n/ap
to oswegatchie river in new york                 n/ap      3,013    1,972    1,777
to land (irrigation using treated water
in peru)                                             0        0      139        10
to chilloroya river (peru)                      2,623       737     n/ap      n/ap
water treated (000 cubic metres)               19,086     19,887   19,867   19,687

total number of significant spills
(en24)                                               9       12        5         3
volume (m3)                                     382.0      103.0      3.8       1.5

hazardous waste disposed of at
external facility (tonnes) (en25)              1,508.57    658.5    522.3   2,763.0

total waste (tonnes) (mm3)
overburden                                       n/av      n/av     n/av      n/av
waste rock                                42,764,760.0     n/av     n/av      n/av
tailings                                  24,780,081.6     n/av     n/av      n/av

number of fines or sanctions for
non-compliance with environmental
laws and regulations (en29)                          0        0        0         0




hudbay     2015 annual and csr report                                            121

                                           2015        2014        2013        2012

land use (hectares) – mineral tenure
(controlled) (mm1)
manitoba                               137,832.4   135,068.4   226,679.4   219,386.4
saskatchewan                           135,352.1   139,316.2   136,887.5   145,757.5
ontario                                      0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
yukon                                    5,823.4     5,823.4     5,823.4     5,823.4
nunavut                                     21.0        21.0        21.0        21.0

total canada                           279,028.9   280,229.0   369,411.2   370,988.3

new york                                     0.0    31,532.3    31,570.2    31,590.4
michigan                                     0.0         0.0     3,161.8     3,141.1
arizona                                  7,284.0         0.0       n/ap        n/ap

total usa                                7,284.0    31,532.3    34,732.0    34,731.5

chile                                    1,531.0     1,531.0     1,531.0     1,531.0
colombia                                     0.0         0.0     5,210.8     5,210.8
peru                                    43,669.5    32,369.5    26,932.5    22,532.5

total south/central america             45,200.5    33,900.5    33,674.3    29,274.3

total                                  331,513.3   345,661.8   437,817.5   434,994.1


land use (hectares) – surface tenure
(disturbed)
manitoba                                 7,314.1     6,130.3     6,115.8     6,083.0
saskatchewan                              535.2       744.5       744.5       928.7
ontario                                      0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
yukon                                     120.7       120.7       120.7       120.7
nunavut                                      0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0

total canada                             7,969.9     6,995.5     6,981.0     7,132.4

new york                                     0.0        57.7        57.7        57.7
michigan                                     0.0         0.0      571.0       550.3
arizona                                      0.0         0.0       n/ap        n/ap




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                              122

                                                                              2015                    2014                 2013                2012

total usa                                                                        0.0                  57.7                628.7               608.0

chile                                                                            0.0                    0.0                  0.0                  0.0
colombia                                                                         0.0                    0.0                  0.0                  0.0
peru                                                                      5,187.0                   5,187.0              4,225.8           3,774.2

total south/central america                                               5,187.0                   5,187.0              4,225.8           3,774.2

total                                                                   13,156.9                    7,053.2          11,835.5            11,514.6


percent land used vs. controlled                                              4.0%                    2.3%                 2.7%                2.6%

sites requiring biodiversity
management plans (mm2/en12)
number of sites legally requiring plans                                             1                     0                   0                n/av
percentage of sites with plans in place                                      100%                     n/ap                 n/ap                n/av
number of sites with voluntary plans
in place                                                                            1                     1                   2                n/av

habitats protected or restored
(hectares) (en13)
protected                                                                           0                     0                   0                     0
restored                                                                       0.62                       2                22.8                 11.5
partnerships exist                                                               yes                  n/av                 n/av                n/av
status at close of reporting period                                 monitoring                        n/av                 n/av                n/av

iucn red list species and national
conservation list species (en14)
critically endangered                                                               3                 n/av                 n/av                n/av
endangered                                                                          8                 n/av                 n/av                n/av
vulnerable                                                                        14                  n/av                 n/av                n/av
near threatened                                                                     9                 n/av                 n/av                n/av
least concern                                                                       6                 n/av                 n/av                n/av


1. nox emissions are not tracked as the government of canada does not consider the mining sector to be significant emitters of nox. particulate from
  stack emissions is directly measured and converted to site-specific emission factors. road dust emissions are calculated using environment canada’s
  unpaved industrial road calculator.

2. the large change in particulate matter released is due to a number of reasons across our business units, including:
  1) a recalculation of road dust at lalor resulted in increases in particulate matter emissions;




hudbay       2015 annual and csr report                                                                                                             123

  2) in flin flon, ore haul has moved from a longer paved road to a shorter unpaved one, doubling the road dust at the site;
  3) methodologies required to calculate particulate matter in arizona are different.

3. 87% of groundwater withdrawn in arizona is reused.

4. during 2015, the tmf increases its capacity in 260%, and 2015 was a humid year (more precipitation) in comparison with 2014.

5. water discharged from the tom valley exploration property is not reported.

6. as of 2014, we were able to discharge our grey water from our lalor construction camp located in the town of snow lake directly to the town’s
  newly upgraded wastewater treatment plant.

7. increase due to peru: 51% waste oil and cooking oil, 23% treatment plant sludge, 9% hydrocarbon impregnated waste.




hudbay       2015 annual and csr report                                                                                                            124

csr performance data
2015 targets and
achievements
target                                           achievement          details

health and safety

improve on our three-year average lost time      did not achieve      see health and safety.
accident frequency of 0.2

improve on our three-year average lost time      did not achieve      see health and safety.
accident severity of 6.5

improve on our three-year total recordable injury achieved            as of december 31, 2015, our
frequency average of 3.6                                              three-year average total recordable
                                                                      injury frequency was 3.2.

implement a company definition and               achieved             a high-potential incident is any
investigation standard for severe and                                 incident that, due to luck or chance,
high-potential safety and environmental                               did not result in a fatality, life-altering
incidents                                                             injury or major environmental event.

community

develop a company-wide introduction to human     partially achieved   achieved formal agreement with
rights training program                                               mining association of canada and
                                                                      government of canada to jointly fund
                                                                      an introduction to mining and human
                                                                      rights video, now in production and
                                                                      expected to be available in h1 2016.

develop and implement a company-wide local       achieved             see local hiring and skills
employment and procurement standard                                   development and local purchasing.

environment

achieve a 1% greenhouse gas emissions            achieved             see energy use and greenhouse gas.
reduction in manitoba

achieve a 1% water reduction in manitoba         partially achieved   mbu achieved an intensity but not an
                                                                      absolute reduction. see water.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                                 125

target                                              achievement          details

governance

develop a matrix identifying key skills that need   achieved             see information circular.
to be represented in the board of directors
membership

amend hudbay’s governance guidelines to             achieved             see information circular.
reflect the desire for increased board diversity

implement at least one additional module at         partially achieved   commenced implementation of an
each business unit as the second phase of our                            additional module, scheduled for
ehsc information system                                                  completion by the end of q2 2016 at
                                                                         all locations.

financial excellence/growth targets

achieve commercial production from the              achieved             see operations.
constancia mine

achieve an increase in copper production            achieved             see business and financial review.
(contained metal in concentrate) of more than
than 270% over 2014

advance permitting and technical work at the        achieved             progressed towards federal permits
rosemont project                                                         as well as advancing engineering
                                                                         work.




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                                                           126

csr performance data
2016 targets
health and safety
 improve on our current three-year average lost time accident severity of 8.3

 improve on our three-year total recordable injury frequency average of 3.2

 implement a visible felt leadership program for management – to achieve regular safety-focused
 workplace visits and constructive employee interactions by all levels of operations management
 (to ceo level)

 sustain our focus on learning from severe and high-potential incidents by ensuring uniform
 application of incident criteria, investigation process and corrective action follow-up at all business
 units

community
 implement a program to achieve company-wide exposure to human rights introductory video
 being developed with mac and the canadian government and connect to hudbay policies and
 standards

 complete gap analysis for recently approved community giving and investment standard and
 local procurement and employment standard at each operating location and identify business
 unit defined action plans

 achieve canadian council for aboriginal business par (progressive aboriginal relations) bronze
 level or higher at our manitoba business unit

environment
 achieve a 1% greenhouse gas emissions intensity reduction in manitoba

 achieve a 1% fresh water consumption intensity reduction in manitoba

 set constancia environmental benchmark and improvement targets for 2017




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                    127

governance
 anti-bribery and anti-corruption refresher training for board members

 adopt shareholder engagement policy encouraging shareholders to communicate directly with
 the board of directors

 achievement of iso 14001 and ohsas 18001 management system certification for the constancia
 operation

financial excellence/growth targets
 through efficiency improvements, combined with cost containment efforts, achieve 2016 capital
 expenditure and operating cost reductions of more than $100 million, compared to 2016
 guidance, while maintaining or improving on production guidance

 enhance hudbay’s liquidity position in the current commodity price environment by consolidating
 the lender groups and restructure hudbay’s two secured credit facilities (2016 objective achieved
 in q1)

 build on the 2015 technical and permitting work at the rosemont project to complete the
 definitive feasibility study and continue progress on the outstanding permits




hudbay    2015 annual and csr report                                                                 128

csr performance data
gri
index
strategy and analysis

                                                                           external
general standard disclosures                                               assurance



g4-1                statement from the most senior decision-maker of the   no
                    organization
                    our company > ceo message




organizational profile

                                                                           external
general standard disclosures                                               assurance



g4-3                name of the organization                               no
                    our company




g4-4                primary brands, products and services                  no
                    our company
                    business and financial review
                    business and financial review > operations
                    csr approach > supply chain stewardship




g4-5                location of the organization’s headquarters            no
                    our company




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                    129

                                                                               external
general standard disclosures                                                   assurance



g4-6                number of countries where the organization operates,       no
                    and names of countries where the organization has
                    significant operations or that are specifically relevant
                    to the sustainability topics covered in the report
                    our company
                    business and financial review > operations




g4-7                nature of ownership and legal form                         no
                    our company
                    website – our business
                    annual information form (aif)




g4-8                markets served                                             no
                    csr approach > supply chain stewardship




g4-9                scale of the organization                                  no
                    our company
                    business and financial review
                    csr performance data




g4-10               employee/workforce details                                 no
                    csr performance data




g4-11               percentage of total employees covered by collective        no
                    bargaining agreements
                    our people > our workplace




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                        130

                                                                                external
general standard disclosures                                                    assurance



g4-12               describe the organization’s supply chain                    no
                    csr approach > supply chain stewardship




g4-13               significant changes during the reporting period             no
                    regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership
                    or supply chain
                    our company
                    our company > ceo message
                    business and financial review
                    business and financial review > operations




g4-14               whether and how the precautionary approach or               no
                    principle is addressed by the organization
                    csr approach > csr governance




g4-15               externally developed economic, environmental and            no
                    social charters, principles or other initiatives to which
                    the organization subscribes or which it endorses
                    csr approach > csr governance




g4-16               memberships of associations and national or                 no
                    international advocacy organizations
                    csr approach > csr governance




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                         131

identified material aspects and boundaries

                                                                              external
general standard disclosures                                                  assurance



g4-17               entities included in the organization’s consolidated      no
                    financial statements
                    about this report
                    aif




g4-18               process for defining report content                       no
                    csr approach > materiality
                    2014 annual and csr report




g4-19               material aspects identified in the process for defining   no
                    report content
                    csr approach > materiality




g4-20               aspect boundary within the organization                   no
                    csr approach > materiality
                    csr performance data > gri index




g4-21               aspect boundary outside of the organization               no
                    csr approach > materiality
                    csr performance data > gri index




g4-22               effect of any restatement of information in previous      no
                    reports
                    csr performance data




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                       132

                                                                           external
general standard disclosures                                               assurance



g4-23               significant changes from previous reporting in scope   no
                    of priorities
                    csr performance data




stakeholder engagement

                                                                           external
general standard disclosures                                               assurance



g4-24               list of stakeholder groups                             no
                    csr approach > stakeholder engagement




g4-25               basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders       no
                    csr approach > stakeholder engagement




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                    133

                                                                       external
general standard disclosures                                           assurance



g4-26               approach to stakeholder engagement                 no
                    csr approach > stakeholder engagement
                    our people > health and safety
                    our people > our workplace
                    social impact > community development
                    social impact > community relations




g4-27               topics raised through stakeholder engagement and   no
                    response
                    csr approach > stakeholder engagement
                    our people > health and safety
                    our people > our workplace
                    social impact > community development
                    social impact > community relations




report profile

                                                                       external
general standard disclosures                                           assurance



g4-28               reporting period                                   no
                    about this report




g4-29               date of most recent report                         no
                    about this report




g4-30               reporting cycle                                    no
                    about this report




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                134

                                                                               external
general standard disclosures                                                   assurance



g4-31               contact                                                    no
                    contact us




g4-32               in accordance option                                       no
                    about this report




g4-33               external assurance policy                                  no
                    about this report

                    note: our external report is not externally assured, and
                    we do not have a policy around external assurance. the
                    financial data comprising ec1 is externally assured
                    through the auditing of our financials.




governance

                                                                               external
general standard disclosures                                                   assurance



g4-34               governance structure                                       no
                    csr approach > csr governance
                    management information circular




g4-37               process for consultation between stakeholders and          no
                    highest governance body on economic, social and
                    environmental topics
                    our company > business conduct
                    website – governance




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                        135

                                                                           external
general standard disclosures                                               assurance



g4-38               composition of the highest governance body             no
                    our company > corporate governance
                    website – governance
                    aif




g4-39               indicate whether the chair of the highest governance   no
                    body is also an executive officer
                    our company > corporate governance




g4-40               nomination and selection process for the highest       no
                    governance body and its committees
                    website – governance




g4-41               process for the highest governance body to ensure      no
                    conflicts of interest are avoided and managed
                    our company > business conduct
                    csr approach > csr governance
                    aif




g4-44               process for evaluation of the highest governance       no
                    body’s performance
                    website – governance




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                    136

                                                                              external
general standard disclosures                                                  assurance



g4-45               highest governance body’s role in the identification of   no
                    economic, social and environmental impacts, risks and
                    opportunities
                    our company > corporate governance
                    csr approach > csr governance




g4-47               frequency of the highest governance body’s review of      no
                    economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and
                    opportunities
                    csr approach > csr governance




g4-49               process for communicating critical concerns to the        no
                    highest governance body
                    our company > business conduct




g4-51               remuneration policies for the highest governance          no
                    body and senior executives
                    management information circular




g4-54               ratio of the annual total compensation for the            no
                    organization’s highest paid individual in each country
                    of significant operation to the median annual total
                    compensation for all employees
                    csr performance data




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                       137

ethics and integrity

                                                                             external
general standard disclosures                                                 assurance



g4-56               organization’s values, principles, standards and norms   no
                    of behaviour
                    our company > business conduct
                    csr approach > csr governance
                    our people
                    social impact > local purchasing
                    social impact > resettlement and land use
                    website – about us
                    website – code of conduct



economic

                                                                     external     impact
specific standard disclosures                                        assurance    boundaries



aspect: economic performance

dma                disclosure of management approach                 no           1, 2, 3, 5, 6,
                                                                                  7, 8, 9, 10,
                   our company > ceo message
                                                                                  11
                   our company > corporate governance
                   business and financial review > strategy
                   business and financial review > operations
                   our people > our workplace
                   social impact > economic contributions
                   social impact > community development
                   aif




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                138

                                                                         external    impact
specific standard disclosures                                            assurance   boundaries



g4-ec1             direct economic value generated and                   yes
                   distributed
                   business and financial review
                   business and financial review > operations
                   our people
                   social impact
                   social impact > economic contributions




g4-ec2             financial implications and other risks and            no
                   opportunities for the organization’s activities
                   due to climate change
                   cdp website




g4-ec3             coverage of the organization’s defined benefit        no
                   plan obligations
                   aif


aspect: indirect economic impacts

dma                disclosure of management approach                     no          1, 2, 3, 6, 8,
                                                                                     9, 10, 11
                   csr approach > supply chain stewardship
                   social impact > economic contributions
                   social impact > community development
                   social impact > local hiring and skills
                   development
                   social impact > local purchasing

                   note: we re-evaluate our management approach
                   every three years as part of our materiality review
                   process, which was last conducted in 2014.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                   139

                                                                      external    impact
specific standard disclosures                                         assurance   boundaries



g4-ec7             development and impact of infrastructure           no
                   investments and services supported
                   our company > ceo message
                   social impact > economic contributions
                   social impact > community development




g4-ec8             significant indirect economic impacts, including   no
                   the extent of impacts
                   csr approach > supply chain stewardship
                   social impact > economic contributions
                   social impact > local hiring and skills
                   development
                   social impact > local purchasing


aspect: procurement practices

dma                disclosure of management approach                  no          1, 3, 4, 9,
                                                                                  10, 11
                   csr approach > supply chain stewardship
                   social impact > local purchasing




g4-ec9             proportion of spending on local suppliers at       no
                   significant locations of operation
                   csr approach > supply chain stewardship




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                             140

environmental

                                                                         external    impact
specific standard disclosures                                            assurance   boundaries



aspect: water

dma                disclosure of management approach                     no          3, 6, 8, 11
                   environment > water

                   note: we re-evaluate our management approach
                   every three years as part of our materiality review
                   process, which was last conducted in 2014.




g4-en8             total water withdrawal by source                      no
                   csr performance data




g4-en10            percentage and total volume of water recycled         no
                   and reused
                   csr performance data


aspect: biodiversity

dma                disclosure of management approach                     no          3, 7, 8, 10,
                                                                                     11
                   environment > land and biodiversity




g4-en13            habitats protected or restored                        no
                   environment > land and biodiversity
                   csr performance data




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                 141

                                                                      external    impact
specific standard disclosures                                         assurance   boundaries



mm1                amount of land disturbed or rehabilitated          no
                   environment > land and biodiversity
                   csr performance data




mm2                the number and percentage of total sites           no
                   identified as requiring biodiversity
                   management plans according to stated criteria,
                   and the number (percentage) of those sites
                   with plans in place
                   csr performance data




g4-en14            total number of iucn red list species and          no
                   national conservation list species with habitats
                   in areas affected by operations, by level of
                   extinction risk
                   csr performance data


aspect: effluents and waste

dma                disclosure of management approach                  no          1, 2, 3, 5, 6,
                                                                                  8, 10, 11
                   environment > water
                   environment > waste and tailings




g4-en22            total water discharge by quality and               no
                   destination
                   csr performance data




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                142

                                                                        external    impact
specific standard disclosures                                           assurance   boundaries



g4-en24            total number and volume of significant spills        no
                   csr performance data




mm3                total amount of overburden, rock, tailings and       no
                   sludges and their associated risks
                   csr performance data




g4-en25            weight of transported, imported, exported or         no
                   treated waste deemed hazardous under the
                   terms of the basel convention (2) annex i, ii, iii
                   and viii, and percentage of transported waste
                   shipped internationally
                   csr performance data


aspect: environmental grievance mechanisms

dma                disclosure of management approach                    no          2, 3, 6, 8,
                                                                                    11
                   csr approach > stakeholder engagement
                   csr approach > materiality
                   social impact > community relations




g4-en34            number of grievances about environmental             no
                   impacts filed, addressed and resolved through
                   formal grievance mechanisms
                   social impact > community relations
                   csr performance data




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                               143

social: labour practices and decent work

                                                                      external    impact
specific standard disclosures                                         assurance   boundaries



aspect: employment

dma                disclosure of management approach                  no          1, 3, 5, 11
                   our people
                   our people > our workplace




g4-la1             total number and rates of new employee hires       no
                   and employee turnover by age group, gender
                   and region
                   our people > our workplace
                   csr performance data




g4-la2             benefits provided to full-time employees that      no
                   are not provided to temporary or part-time
                   employees, by significant locations of operation
                   csr performance data


aspect: labour/management relations

dma                disclosure of management approach                  no          1, 3, 5, 11
                   our people > our workplace




g4-la4             minimum notice periods regarding operational       no
                   changes, including whether these are specified
                   in collective agreements
                   our people > our workplace




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                             144

                                                                      external    impact
specific standard disclosures                                         assurance   boundaries



mm4                number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one      no
                   week’s duration, by country
                   csr approach > human rights and security
                   csr performance data


aspect: occupational health and safety

dma                disclosure of management approach                  no          1, 2, 3, 5, 6,
                                                                                  7, 8, 9, 10,
                   our people > health and safety
                                                                                  11
                   website – environmental health and safety policy




g4-la5             percentage of total workforce represented in       no
                   formal joint management–worker health and
                   safety committees that help monitor and advise
                   on occupational health and safety programs
                   csr performance data




g4-la6             type of injury and rates of injury, occupational   no
                   diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and total
                   number of work-related fatalities, by region and
                   by gender
                   csr performance data




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                145

social: human rights

                                                                         external    impact
specific standard disclosures                                            assurance   boundaries



aspect: non-discrimination

dma                disclosure of management approach                     no          1, 5, 11
                   our people > our workplace

                   note: we re-evaluate our management approach
                   every three years as part of our materiality review
                   process, which was last conducted in 2014.




g4-hr3             total number of incidents of discrimination and       no
                   corrective actions taken
                   csr performance data


aspect: freedom of association and collective bargaining

dma                disclosure of management approach                     no          1, 5, 8
                   our people > our workplace

                   note: we re-evaluate our management approach
                   every three years as part of our materiality review
                   process, which was last conducted in 2014.




g4-hr4             operations and suppliers identified in which the      no
                   right to exercise freedom of association and
                   collective bargaining may be violated or at
                   significant risk, and measures taken to support
                   these rights
                   our people > our workplace




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                               146

                                                                      external    impact
specific standard disclosures                                         assurance   boundaries

aspect: security practices

dma                disclosure of management approach                  no          1, 2, 3, 11
                   csr approach > human rights and security




g4-hr7             percentage of security personnel trained in the    no
                   organization’s human rights policies or
                   procedures that are relevant to operations
                   csr performance data


aspect: indigenous rights

dma                disclosure of management approach                  no          3, 7, 8, 10,
                                                                                  11
                   csr approach > human rights and security
                   csr approach > stakeholder engagement
                   social impact > community relations




g4-hr8             total number of incidents of violations            no
                   involving rights of indigenous peoples and
                   actions taken
                   csr approach > human rights and security

                   note: there were 0 violations in 2015.




mm5                total number of operations taking place in or      no
                   adjacent to indigenous peoples’ territories, and
                   number and percentage of operations or sites
                   where there are formal agreements with
                   indigenous peoples’ communities
                   csr performance data




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                              147

                                                                         external    impact
specific standard disclosures                                            assurance   boundaries

aspect: human rights grievance mechanisms

dma                disclosure of management approach                     no          2, 3, 4, 7, 8,
                                                                                     9, 10, 11
                   csr approach > materiality
                   social impact > community relations

                   note: we re-evaluate our management approach
                   every three years as part of our materiality review
                   process, which was last conducted in 2014.




g4-hr12            number of grievances about human rights               no
                   impacts filed, addressed and resolved through
                   formal grievance mechanisms
                   csr performance data




social: society

                                                                         external    impact
specific standard disclosures                                            assurance   boundaries



aspect: anti-corruption

dma                disclosure of management approach                     no          1, 2, 6, 8, 9
                   our company > business conduct
                   our people > our workplace




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                   148

                                                                   external    impact
specific standard disclosures                                      assurance   boundaries



g4-so4             communication and training on anti-corruption   no
                   policies and procedures
                   csr performance data


aspect: resettlement

dma                disclosure of management approach               no          3, 8, 6, 10,
                                                                               11
                   social impact > resettlement and land use




mm9                sites where resettlements took place, the       no
                   number of households resettled in each, and
                   how their livelihoods were affected in the
                   process
                   csr performance data


aspect: closure planning

dma                disclosure of management approach               no          1, 2, 3, 6, 7,
                                                                               8, 10
                   environment > closure and reclamation




mm10               number and percentage of operations with        no
                   closure plans
                   csr performance data




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                             149

                                                                                    external    impact
 specific standard disclosures                                                      assurance   boundaries

 aspect: grievance mechanisms for impacts on society

 dma                          disclosure of management approach                     no          1, 3, 5, 6,
                                                                                                11
                              csr approach > materiality
                              social impact > community relations

                              note: we re-evaluate our management approach
                              every three years as part of our materiality review
                              process, which was last conducted in 2014.




 g4-so11                      number of grievances about impacts on society         no
                              filed, addressed and resolved through formal
                              grievance mechanisms
                              csr performance data


 impact boundaries legend


 1. employees and contractors

 2. business partners (jvs)

 3. local communities

 4. consumers

 5. labour unions

 6. shareholders and investor groups

 7. industry peers and associations

 8. government and regulators

 9. suppliers

10. community organizations and ngos

11. indigenous communities




 hudbay         2015 annual and csr report                                                                    150

about
this report
this is the second year in which we have combined our annual report and our corporate social
responsibility (csr) report. recognizing that social performance is as important as financial and
operating performance, we believe combining the reports presents a truly representative account of
the company’s activities in 2015.

we published our management’s discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial
condition and the consolidated financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2015, on
february 24, 2016. copies are posted to our website. the business and financial review section of
this report covers the content normally included in our annual report.

this is the 12th year that we have produced a csr report, and our eighth report based on the global
reporting initiative (gri) sustainability reporting guidelines. our most recent previous report was
released in may 2015. this report is not in accordance with the g4 guidelines, but we are working
toward the core level option for future reports.

our report covers all operating and project locations reported in our company, as well as our tom
and jason properties in the yukon, and exploration activities managed by hudbay in chile during the
2015 calendar year. csr report content has been defined based on our materiality analysis and
aspects identification process, which applied to all of hudbay’s operating assets.

more information on the scope of our reporting is available in the csr performance section.

basis of reporting
all financial information is presented in us dollars except where otherwise noted. all operating data
is reported using the metric system unless otherwise noted. some metrics are reported on both an
absolute basis and an intensity basis against kilotonnes of metal processed. safety data frequency
rates are measured per 200,000 hours worked.

qualified person
the technical and scientific information in this annual report related to the constancia project has
been approved by cashel meagher, p. geo, hudbay’s senior vice president and chief operating
officer. the technical and scientific information related to all other sites and projects contained in
this annual report has been approved by robert carter, p. eng, hudbay’s director, business
development and technical services, at our manitoba business unit. messrs. meagher and carter are
qualified persons pursuant to ni 43-101. for a description of the key assumptions, parameters and




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                      151

methods used to estimate mineral reserves and resources, as well as data verification procedures
and a general discussion of the extent to which the estimates of scientific and technical information
may be affected by any known environmental, permitting, legal title, taxation, sociopolitical,
marketing or other relevant factors, please see the technical reports for hudbay’s material
properties as filed by hudbay on sedar at www.sedar.com.

forward-looking information
this report contains “forward-looking statements” and “forward-looking information” (collectively,
“forward-looking information”) within the meaning of applicable canadian and united states
securities legislation. all information contained in this report, other than statements of current and
historical fact, is forward-looking information. often, but not always, forward-looking information
can be identified by the use of words such as “plans”, “expects”, “budget”, “guidance”, “scheduled”,
“estimates”, “forecasts”, “strategy”, “target”, “intends”, “objective”, “goal”, “understands”,
“anticipates” and “believes” (and variations of these or similar words) and statements that certain
actions, events or results “may”, “could”, “would”, “should”, “might” “occur” or “be achieved” or “will
be taken” (and variations of these or similar expressions). all of the forward-looking information in
this report is qualified by this cautionary note.

forward-looking information includes, but is not limited to, production, cost and capital and
exploration expenditure guidance, including anticipated capital and operating cost savings,
anticipated production at hudbay’s mines and processing facilities, events that may affect its
operations and development projects, anticipated cash flows from operations and related liquidity
requirements, the anticipated effect of external factors on revenue, such as commodity prices,
estimation of mineral reserves and resources, mine life projections, reclamation costs, economic
outlook, government regulation of mining operations, and business and acquisition strategies.
forward-looking information is not, and cannot be, a guarantee of future results or events. forward-
looking information is based on, among other things, opinions, assumptions, estimates and analyses
that, while considered reasonable by hudbay at the date the forward-looking information is
provided, inherently are subject to significant risks, uncertainties, contingencies and other factors
that may cause actual results and events to be materially different from those expressed or implied
by the forward-looking information.

the material factors or assumptions that hudbay identified and were applied by the company in
drawing conclusions or making forecasts or projections set out in the forward-looking information
include, but are not limited to:

  the success of mining, processing, exploration and development activities;

  the success of hudbay’s cost reduction initiatives;




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                       152

 the accuracy of geological, mining and metallurgical estimates;

 anticipated metals prices and the costs of production;

 the supply and demand for metals that hudbay produces;

 the supply and availability of concentrate for hudbay’s processing facilities;

 the supply and availability of third-party processing facilities for hudbay’s concentrate;

 the supply and availability of all forms of energy and fuels at reasonable prices;

 the availability of transportation services at reasonable prices;

 no significant unanticipated operational or technical difficulties;

 the execution of hudbay’s business and growth strategies, including the success of its strategic
 investments and initiatives;

 the availability of additional financing, if needed;

 the ability to complete project targets on time and on budget and other events that may affect
 hudbay’s ability to develop its projects;

 the timing and receipt of various regulatory and governmental approvals;

 the availability of personnel for hudbay’s exploration, development and operational projects and
 ongoing employee relations;

 the ability to secure required land rights to develop the pampacancha deposit;

 maintaining good relations with the communities in which hudbay operates, including the
 communities surrounding its constancia mine and rosemont project and first nations
 communities surrounding its lalor and reed mines;

 no significant unanticipated challenges with stakeholders at hudbay’s various projects;

 no significant unanticipated events or changes relating to regulatory, environmental, health and
 safety matters;

 no contests over title to hudbay’s properties, including as a result of rights or claimed rights of
 aboriginal peoples;

 the timing and possible outcome of pending litigation and no significant unanticipated litigation;

 certain tax matters, including, but not limited to, current tax laws and regulations and the refund
 of certain value-added taxes from the canadian and peruvian governments; and

 no significant and continuing adverse changes in general economic conditions or conditions in the
 financial markets (including commodity prices and foreign exchange rates).




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                    153

the risks, uncertainties, contingencies and other factors that may cause actual results to differ
materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking information may include, but are
not limited to, risks generally associated with the mining industry, such as economic factors
(including future commodity prices, currency fluctuations, energy prices and general cost escalation),
uncertainties related to the development and operation of hudbay’s projects (including risks
associated with the economics and permitting of the rosemont project and related legal challenges),
risks related to the maturing nature of hudbay’s 777 mine and its impact on the related flin flon
metallurgical complex, dependence on key personnel and employee and union relations, risks related
to political or social unrest or change (including in relation to the peruvian national elections), risks in
respect of aboriginal and community relations, rights and title claims, operational risks and hazards,
including unanticipated environmental, industrial and geological events and developments and the
inability to insure against all risks, failure of plant, equipment, processes, transportation and other
infrastructure to operate as anticipated, planned infrastructure improvements in peru (including the
expansion of the port in matarani) not being completed on schedule or as planned, compliance with
government and environmental regulations, including permitting requirements and anti-bribery
legislation, depletion of the company’s reserves, volatile financial markets that may affect hudbay’s
ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, the permitting and development of the
rosemont project not occurring as planned, the failure to obtain required approvals or clearances
from government authorities on a timely basis, uncertainties related to the geology, continuity,
grade and estimates of mineral reserves and resources, and the potential for variations in grade and
recovery rates, uncertain costs of reclamation activities, the company’s ability to comply with its
pension and other post-retirement obligations, hudbay’s ability to abide by the covenants in its debt
instruments and other material contracts, tax refunds, hedging transactions, as well as the risks
discussed under the heading “risk factors” in the company’s most recent annual information form.

should one or more risk, uncertainty, contingency or other factor materialize or should any factor or
assumption prove incorrect, actual results could vary materially from those expressed or implied in
the forward-looking information. accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on forward-
looking information. hudbay does not assume any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking
information after the date of this report or to explain any material difference between subsequent
actual events and any forward-looking information, except as required by applicable law.

note to united states investors
this report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the securities laws in effect in
canada, which may differ materially from the requirements of united states securities laws
applicable to us issuers.

information concerning hudbay’s mineral properties has been prepared in accordance with the
requirements of canadian securities laws, which differ in material respects from the requirements of




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                        154

the securities and exchange commission (the “sec”) set forth in industry guide 7. under the sec’s
industry guide 7, mineralization may not be classified as a “reserve” unless the determination has
been made that the mineralization could be economically and legally produced or extracted at the
time of the reserve determination, and the sec does not recognize the reporting of mineral deposits
which do not meet the sec industry guide 7 definition of “reserve”. in accordance with national
instrument 43-101 – standards of disclosure for mineral projects (“ni 43-101”) of the canadian
securities administrators, the terms “mineral reserve”, “proven mineral reserve”, “probable mineral
reserve”, “mineral resource”, “measured mineral resource”, “indicated mineral resource” and
“inferred mineral resource” are defined in the canadian institute of mining, metallurgy and
petroleum (the “cim”) definition standards for mineral resources and mineral reserves adopted by
the cim council on may 10, 2014. while the terms “mineral resource”, “measured mineral resource”,
“indicated mineral resource” and “inferred mineral resource” are recognized and required by
ni 43-101, the sec does not recognize them. you are cautioned that, except for that portion of
mineral resources classified as mineral reserves, mineral resources do not have demonstrated
economic value. inferred mineral resources have a high degree of uncertainty as to their existence
and as to whether they can be economically or legally mined. it cannot be assumed that all or any
part of an inferred mineral resource will ever be upgraded to a higher category. therefore, you are
cautioned not to assume that all or any part of an inferred mineral resource exists, that it can be
economically or legally mined, or that it will ever be upgraded to a higher category. likewise, you are
cautioned not to assume that all or any part of measured or indicated mineral resources will ever be
upgraded into mineral reserves.




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                    155

contact us
we invite your comments and questions about this report.

for investor relations matters, please contact candace brulé, director, investor relations,
416 362-8181, investor.relations@hudbayminerals.com.

for csr matters, please contact david clarry, vice president, corporate social responsibility,
416 362-7364, david.clarry@hudbayminerals.com.

annual and special meeting of shareholders
may 19, 2016, 10:00 a.m. et
toronto, ontario




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                              156

glossary
accident frequency – number of injuries (recordable or lost time) multiplied by 200,000, divided by
total hours worked

biodiversity – short for “biological diversity”; the variety of living organisms, genetic diversity and
habitat diversity that creates and sustains variation in the environment

community investment – voluntary investment of funds in the broader community, including for
physical infrastructure and social programs

conflict-free minerals – mineral production that does not contribute to serious human rights abuses
in regions of armed conflict (drawing on the definitions provided in the dodd–frank act)

contractor – one who agrees to perform work or supply items at a certain price or rate

dodd–frank – refers to the dodd–frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, which
requires entities involved in the commercial development of oil, gas and minerals to provide
information in annual reports about the type and total amount of payments made to governments
(section 1504), and also identifies requirements for tracking conflict minerals in product supply
chains (section 1502)

donations – contributions to charities

employee – a person directly employed by hudbay and/or its subsidiaries

g4 indicators – performance indicators contained in the g4 guidelines of the global reporting
initiative. the g4 guidelines – core option provide the framework for this report

ghg emissions – greenhouse gas emissions

global reporting initiative (gri) – an independent institution whose mission is to develop and
disseminate globally applicable sustainability reporting guidelines. for more information, visit
www.globalreporting.org

grant in lieu – an amount paid instead of property taxes

lost time accident (lta) – a work-related injury that causes the injured person to be unable to return
to work on his/her next scheduled workday after the day of the injury, because he/she is unfit to
perform any duties

mac – mining association of canada

material information – a fact or a change to the company that could reasonably be expected to have
a significant effect on the market price or value of the securities of the company




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                       157

n/ap – not applicable

n/av – not available

restricted work – a work-related injury where a licensed health care provider or the employer
recommends that the employee not perform one or more of the routine functions of the job or not
work the full workday that the employee would have otherwise worked

tailings – the fine waste rock that remains after separating the valuable minerals from the ore during
mining and processing of mineral resources. tailings may contain trace quantities of metals found in
the host ore, as well as added compounds used to extract the minerals

tsm – towards sustainable mining – an initiative of the mining association of canada




hudbay   2015 annual and csr report                                                                 158
