water dependent
water responsible
focused on a precious resource | 2014 sustainability report


                                                                water is life
                                                                not only does it sustain
                                                                humankind, but it is also the
                                                                lifeblood of chemical manu-
                                                                facturers like huntsman.
                                                                because this precious
                                                                resource is becoming more
                                                                limited and scarce in today’s
                                                                growing world, we’re putting
                                                                greater focus on our sustain-
                                                                able use of water to reduce
                                                                our intake, optimize our
                                                                processes and innovate
                                                                new products to save water
                                                                resources, protect the
                                                                environment from discharge
                                                                and share solutions to water
                                                                needs with our communities.




                                                                table of contents

                                                                2   a letter from the
                                                                    president and ceo
                                                                4   a letter from
reduce | optimize | innovate | protect | share                      the corporate
                                                                    sustainability officer
                                                                5   a letter from an
                                                                    independent director
                                                                6   united nations
                                                                    global compact
                                                                    communication
                                                                    on progress
                                                                7   a look inside
                                                                    huntsman
                                                                8   chief executive’s
                                                                    award for innovation
                                                                    in sustainability
                                                                10 key figures at
                                                                   a glance
                                                                11 corporate leadership
                                                                12 water constraints
                                                                14 huntsman’s water
                                                                   sustainability
                                                                   initiatives
                                                                28 data on performance
                                                                41 report parameters
                                      conroe, texas
                                                                42 gri index and
                                      a huntsman performance
                                                                   standard disclosures
                                      products division plant



                                            huntsman 2014 sustainability report 1

         as a leader in the global
         chemical manufacturing
         industry, huntsman makes it
         our business to stay aware of
                                         the world’s water use has been increasing at more than
                                         twice the rate of population growth over the last century,
         megatrends that impact our
         operations, our products        according to the united nations department of economic
                                         and social affairs. an increasing number of regions are
         and our stakeholders.           chronically short of water, and too much of our fresh
                                         water is wasted, polluted and unsustainably managed.


                                         we continue to listen to feedback from our stakeholders
         water scarcity is one of
                                         and look at our own risk management processes to identify
         these megatrends.
                                         areas where we need to place more emphasis to address
                                         the needs of society and our long-term sustainability.
                                         water is a critical resource in our manufacturing processes.
                                         we recognize our heavy dependence on its availability
                                         and the risks associated as a result, including adequate
                                         access, the impact of drought and flood and risks from
                                         contamination. that’s why we are focusing on water in
                                         this sustainability report.




2 huntsman 2014 sustainability report

         a letter from the president and chief executive officer




in 2014, we commissioned a third-party study to           global environmental footprint by reducing water and
understand the impacts of our global water use            energy use, greenhouse gas emissions, hazardous
and management. this study is helping us identify         waste and chemical oxygen demand. as our awards
opportunities to improve our management of water.         program has grown since 2011, i have seen both a
                                                          deeper understanding of sustainability reflected in
another excellent year                                    the submissions and a greater appreciation from our
                                                          associates for the real value that sustainability can
last year, huntsman had another excellent year finan-     add in our business.
cially and operationally. we matched our previous
best year for personal safety and continue to improve     as our sustainability program matures, we are evolv-
our process safety performance. in 2014, huntsman         ing to gri’s g4 sustainability reporting guidelines.
acquired the performance additives and titanium           we also remain committed to the united nations
dioxide businesses formerly owned by rockwood,            global compact. we believe by measuring up to these
adding an additional 30 production facilities and         standards, we can focus on those things that are truly
3,500 associates to our team. work is now underway        material to our company’s long-term sustainability
to integrate these sites into our environmental, health   goals and the interests of our major stakeholders –
and safety programs and our sustainability efforts.       our associates, customers, communities and investors.


we also held the third chief executive’s award for
innovation in sustainability. i was pleased to present
the textile effects business with the top honors for
a transformation program that helped the business
                                                                       peter r. huntsman
relocate production assets from older market regions
in europe to areas closer to today’s textile industry.
                                                                       president and chief executive officer

this initiative also significantly helped us reduce our




                                                                                      huntsman 2014 sustainability report 3

                   a letter from the corporate sustainability officer




                                                                 with the world’s population estimated to grow in
                                                                 excess of 9 billion people by 2050, demand for water to
                                                                 meet society’s needs continues to grow. at huntsman,
                                                                 we recognize several risks associated with water, such
                                                                 as flooding due to storms and the rising sea level,
                                                                 drought in certain regions that can impact our facilities,
                                                                 tightening regulatory controls on water extraction and
                                                                 water discharge and the increasing cost of water as a
                                                                 resource. over the past five years, we’ve engaged with
                                                                 our principle insurer, fm global, to better prepare for
        this is the fifth publication of our sustainability      risks associated with flooding and storms in order to
        report, and i’m pleased that our approach to sustain-    minimize the impact on our facilities.
        ability at huntsman continues to mature. last year,
        in our report entitled common bonds, we highlighted      while we’ve studied water usage and risks in the past,
        risk management and how we are managing risks to         this is the first time we’ve conducted a companywide
        ensure we provide sustainable solutions that are good    assessment to help us begin to focus on areas where
        for people, protect our planet and grow our profits.     we have potential water-related risks and to identify
                                                                 regions of the world where we operate that are water
        this year, we focus on one aspect of risk management     stressed.
        and sustainability that has captured our attention and
        that of our many stakeholders in recent years.           working with a leading international consultancy
                                                                 firm, we surveyed all our sites to determine our water
                                                                 usage and what risks they face in six areas: flood,




       we appreciate and respect precious natural resources like water and are committed
       to managing this essential element to ensure we protect the long-term sustainability
       of our company and that of society as a whole.



4 huntsman 2014 sustainability report

                                                            a letter from an independent director



drought, scarcity, wastewater management, water use         after a life-long career associated with chemical and
and cost. we found that we use a lot of water in our        processing industries, i’m passionate about the long-
processes – nearly 48 billion gallons (182 million cubic    term sustainability of the chemical industry as a driving
meters) of water a year – mainly in cooling processes.      force for sustainability in society.
the study also revealed that huntsman spends in excess
of $100 million annually to purchase, treat and             as an independent director of the corporation and
discharge/dispose of water.                                 member of the nomination and governance committee
                                                            at huntsman, i take a keen interest in the company’s
we will use this comprehensive information to identify      approach to risk management and to the safety of our
opportunities to improve our management of water and        operations, including process and personal safety, and the
move forward in our stewardship of water use, both          safe design and responsible use of huntsman products.
within our gates and through the products we make that
help our customers and society, in general, conserve and    i believe a well-run company is one that is managed by
minimize water use.                                         responsible senior executives and has operations and
                                                            research and development activities that are addressing
we appreciate and respect precious natural resources        current market challenges and managing operations
like water and are committed to managing this essential     in a compliant, safe and responsible manner.
element to ensure we protect the long-term sustainability
of our company and that of society as a whole. we now       i am delighted to see the evolution and development
have a baseline to gauge our progress and look forward      of the sustainability program at huntsman and the
to reporting our gains in future sustainability reports.    company’s ongoing process of risk identification and
                                                            management. water use and scarcity is a concern in
                                                            many parts of the world, and huntsman is addressing
                                                            these concerns in many ways, from its use of water in
                                                            manufacturing operations to product developments
                                                            which help customers and society conserve, reduce
                                                            and protect this scarce natural resource.
            ron gerrard
            corporate sustainability officer




                                                                       sir robert margetts
                                                                       director



                                                                              huntsman 2014 sustainability report 5

ungc communication on progress


since huntsman signed the united nations global
compact in 2011, we have been using our annual
sustainability report as the mechanism for reporting
our progress. in this report, we highlight our growth
during 2014 in aligning our corporate policies and
management systems with the ungc’s ten principles
encompassing human rights, labor, environment
and anti-corruption.


global ehs standards re-introduced

huntsman environmental, health & safety (ehs)
re-introduced updated global ehs standards and
procedures to enable all associates to more easily
understand and comply with huntsman’s basic ehs
requirements. each global ehs standard is readily
available to huntsman associates in the company’s
knowledge-sharing platform called the hub.


vendor code of conduct incorporated
into supplier contracts

huntsman asks vendors to comply with our vendor
code of conduct (vcc) and introduced language
relating to such compliance in our standard terms
with suppliers who do business with us. because our
vcc specifically and clearly articulates huntsman’s
values – particularly as they relate to business,
employment and regulatory matters – we feel confident
that our supplier base understands the expectations
we have of them while they conduct business with
us or on our behalf.




6 huntsman 2014 sustainability report

a look inside huntsman

we are a global manufacturer of chemicals people use every day.                  2014 highlights
through our five divisions, we operate in more than 30 countries
around the world, employing over 16,000 associates at more
than 100 manufacturing and research and development (r&d)
sites. we serve a broad and diverse range of consumer and
industrial end markets, including: energy and fuels; transportation;
home and life; paints and coatings; textiles; and construction. our
                                                                                 20%
                                                                                earnings per share grew 20 per-
                                                                                cent compared to the prior year.
products address customers’ needs and help provide solutions
to some of the world’s greatest challenges.


polyurethanes
we are a global leader in the manufacture of mdi-based
polyurethanes used to produce: energy-saving insulation; comfort
foam for automotive seating, bedding and furniture; adhesives;
coatings; elastomers for footwear; and composite wood products.                 completion of the acquisition of
                                                                                the performance additives and
                                                                                titanium dioxide businesses of
advanced materials
                                                                                rockwood holdings inc. broad-
we produce technologically advanced epoxy, acrylic and
                                                                                ened our product offering and
polyurethane-based polymer products that are replacing traditional
                                                                                further enabled our ability to
materials in aircraft, automobiles and electrical power transmission.           build the most competitive
our products are also used in coatings, construction materials,                 and successful pigments and
circuit boards and sports equipment.                                            additives business in the world.


pigments and additives
we manufacture and market a broad range of specialty titanium
dioxide pigments, color pigments, functional additives and timber
and water treatment chemicals. our pigments and additives add
performance and color to thousands of everyday items from
paints, inks, plastics and concrete to cosmetics, pharmaceuticals               numerous initiatives, including
and food.                                                                       relocating manufacturing from
                                                                                europe to countries such as
textile effects                                                                 mexico (pictured above), thailand
we are a major global manufacturer of textile dyes, digital inks                and china generated annual
and chemicals that enhance color, provide a broad shade gamut                   savings of nearly $100 million.
for digital printing, and improve fabric performance such as




                                                                                0.40
wrinkle resistance, uv-blocking and water and stain repellency.
our solutions provide operational and environmental excellence
across the apparel, home and technical textiles end-use markets.

                                                                                our safety and environmental
performance products
                                                                                performance continues to be
we manufacture products primarily based on amines, carbonates,                  rated among the best in our
surfactants and maleic anhydride. end uses include: agrochemicals;              industry. our total recordable
oil and gas and alternative energy solutions; home detergents                   incident rate of 0.40 tied our
and personal care products; adhesives and coatings; mining;                     record safety performance
and polyurethane/epoxy curing agents.                                           in 2013.




                                                                       huntsman 2014 sustainability report 7

8 huntsman 2014 sustainability report

chief executive’s award for innovation in sustainability




                                                                      winners
                                                                       the 2014 chief executive’s award for
                                                                       innovation in sustainability drew 31 entries
                                                                       from around the world.

                                                                       textile effects (te) received top honors for successfully com-
                                                                       pleting one of the largest reorganizations in huntsman history.
                                                                       project basel involved more than 2,600 associates and contrac-
                                                                       tors, and implemented best practices in plant decommissioning,
                                                                       project management and change management to return te to
                                                                       profitability and industry leadership. the project also significantly
                                                                       reduced our global environmental footprint, including our impact
                                                                       on water resources. (see page 17 for more information.)




h i g h ly c o m m e n d e d r e c o g n i t i on went to:




advanced materials, basel,                           performance products &                         pigments, huelva, spain, for a
switzerland, for an advanced epoxy                   polyurethanes, port neches,                    complete sustainability turnaround to
system that enabled the use of lightweight           texas, for a six sigma project which           become a model tio2 plant.
carbon fiber composite in key parts of               rendered catalyst residue non-hazardous
                                                     and reduced the volume produced by
the structure of the bmw i3.
                                                     20 percent.




mahachai, thailand
cf3 dye production was moved from basel, switzerland, to the upgraded mahachai plant in
thailand as part of project basel. the plant uses groundbreaking new proprietary technology
that enables safer production of high-end specialty dyes at very competitive costs, while
reducing product lead times from six months to one month.


                                                                                                    huntsman 2014 sustainability report 9

        2014 key figures




       field/performance indicator                                                           unit                          2014                   2013                   2012

       economy
       revenues                                                                            $million                       11,578                 11,079                 11,187
       net income                                                                          $million                            345                    149                    373
       adjusted ebitda1                                                                    $million                         1,340                  1,213                  1,439
       capital expenditures2                                                               $million                            564                    471                    412
       ehs capital expenditures                                                            $million                            125                      92                   105
       income tax expense                                                                  $million                              51                   125                    169
       taxes other than income                                                             $million                              65                     79                     87
       total products/co-products3                                               million tonnes                             10.46                    8.83                   8.93
       remediation and closure reserves4                                                   $million                              60                     24                     29

       environment
       total energy                                                            terrajoules (tj)                           56,990                 53,369                 53,579
       total greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions                                           mmt co2e                                3.70                   3.48                   3.55
       total air emissions5 (excl ghg)                                                      tonnes                        14,397                 12,257                 13,673
       total water discharge (cod)                                                          tonnes                          7,464                  7,869                  8,350
       total non-hazardous waste                                                            tonnes                   1,098,684              1,025,533                 917,580
       total hazardous waste                                                                tonnes                      160,131                165,539                187,713

       society
       regular full-time associates                                                                                       15,8066                12,032                 12,397
        us-based associates                                                                                                 3,160                  2,282                  2,269
        non-us associates                                                                                                 12,646                   9,750                10,128
       contractors7                                                                                                         7,195                  6,818                  6,731
       total recordable incident rate8 (trir)                                                                                 0.40                   0.40                   0.42
        us chemical industry average9                                                                                        tbd                     2.00                   2.30
       fatal work-related accidents associates                                                                                     0                      1                      0
       fatal work-related accidents contractors                                                                                    0                      0                      0



       1 for a reconciliation, see page 40.
       2 net of reimbursements of $37 million in 2014.
       3 includes fourth quarter production for the newly acquired pigments and additives sites.
       4 pursuant to sec regulations, the company accrues liabilities (reserves) relating to anticipated environmental cleanup obligations, site remediation/reclamation and closure
         costs, and material monetary sanctions (i.e. enforcement penalties), which are recorded and can be reasonably estimated.
       5 air emissions are releases of volatile organic compounds (vocs), carbon monoxide (co), nitrogen oxides (nox), sulfur oxides (sox), particulate matter and other contaminants.
       6 number includes rockwood sites.
       7 number of full time equivalents based on annual reported hours worked by contractors in our safety statistics program.
       8 does not include the newly acquired pigments and additives sites.
       9 the 2014 rate is expected to be published by the bureau of labor statistics in october/november.




10 huntsman 2014 sustainability report

leadership
                                                                    2014 board of directors

                                                                    huntsman’s highest governance body is our board of directors.
                                                                    six of its eight members are independent or “non-executive.” as
                                                                    executive chairman of the board, jon m. huntsman serves as an
                                                                    executive officer of the company and chairman of the board. as of
                                                                    the issuance of this report, the board was structured as follows:




   jon m. huntsman                    peter r. huntsman                   nolan d. archibald*               dr. mary c. beckerle*
   executive chairman               president, chief executive         vice chairman of the board,                 director
      and director                     officer and director          chairman of the nominating and
                                                                    corporate governance committee
                                                                     and lead independent director




  m. anthony burns*                 sir robert j. margetts*               wayne a. reaud*                   alvin v. shoemaker*
  chairman of the audit                    director                     chairman of the litigation       chairman of the compensation
 committee and director                                                 committee and director             committee and director

                                                                                                                   * independent




the board appoints members to its independ-            audit m. anthony burns, chair
ent audit, compensation and governance                 dr. mary c. beckerle, sir robert j. margetts, alvin v. shoemaker
committees. each of these committees has
a written charter approved by the board                compensation alvin v. shoemaker, chair
and available on the company’s website.                nolan d. archibald, wayne a. reaud
independent directors currently comprise
in full the membership of each of these                nominating & corporate governance nolan d. archibald, chair
three board committees.                                dr. mary c. beckerle, m. anthony burns, sir robert j. margetts




stockholders and other interested parties are invited to communicate directly and confidentially with the board, the non-management
directors, the independent directors or the lead independent director by mail, c/o corporate secretary, huntsman corporation,
500 huntsman way, salt lake city, utah 84108, usa, or by email, corporatesecretary@huntsman.com.

stockholders, including huntsman associates who own company stock, have the opportunity to nominate individuals for
election to the board or make proposals to be addressed at the company’s annual meeting of stockholders.



                                                                                            huntsman 2014 sustainability report 11

      baseline water stress map
      source: aqueduct global maps 2.1


          extremely high (>80%)


          high (40-80%)


          arid & low water use


          huntsman




water constraints
 water scarcity already affects every continent. according to the 2014 global
 risks perception study, water crisis is among the top 10 global risks in terms
 of likelihood and the number 1 in terms of impact.




12 huntsman 2014 sustainability report

the statistics* are sobering                                                                                            we have a responsibility

•     around 700 million people in 43 countries suffer today from water scarcity.                                       huntsman wants to be part of
•     by 2025, 1.8 billion people will be living in countries or regions with absolute                                  the solution to the water crisis.
      water scarcity, and two-thirds of the world's population could be living under                                    over the next few pages, we
      water-stressed conditions.                                                                                        highlight some of the things we
•     with the existing climate change scenario, almost half the world’s population                                     are doing to conserve and protect
      will be living in areas of high water stress by 2030, including between 75 million                                water resources.
      and 250 million people in africa. in addition, water scarcity in some arid and
      semi-arid places will displace between 24 million and 700 million people.


* united nations department of economic and social affairs website (www.un.org/waterforlifedecade/scarcity.shtml)




                                                                                                                    huntsman 2014 sustainability report 13

intake: limiting our use




reduce
when a severe drought in texas significantly
strained water supplies throughout the state in
2011, three of huntsman’s performance products
plants in the texas gulf coast region implemented
measures to reduce water use. these are still
in effect today, despite the drought being over.

in 2011, the state of texas saw the driest year since modern recordkeeping began         to meet the water authority’s call for conser-
in 1895. by november, nearly 1,000 of texas’ 4,700 public water systems had              vation, port neches operating personnel
imposed voluntary or mandatory water restrictions, 55 prohibited all outdoor water-      went through each unit to identify areas for
ing and 23 believed they were within 180 days of running out of water completely.*       reducing or eliminating water use, including
                                                                                         replacing leaking valves. the site recycled
drought and unprecedented heat made 2011 the worst year for wildfires in texas           wastewater and changed routine firewater
history, with more than 23,800 fires that burned 3.8 million acres and destroyed         testing to avoid excessive use. of the water
2,763 texas homes.*                                                                      used in a reverse osmosis unit to produce
                                                                                         high-quality water for boiler feed, 30 percent
three of huntsman’s performance products division plants located in the texas gulf       had been discharged. the plant recycled
coast area worked with local regional water districts to significantly reduce water      the 30 percent to cooling towers, saving
use during the crisis. these efforts continue today even though the region is no         600 gallons (2.3 cubic meters) of water a
longer under drought conditions.                                                         minute. besides efforts onsite, the plant’s
                                                                                         600 employees and more than 400 contrac-
as one of the largest manufacturers of ethylene oxide (eo) in the u.s. and the largest   tors were encouraged to practice water
single-site producer of eo in north america, huntsman’s port neches facility uses        conservation at home.
more water than any of the division’s 18 manufacturing plants. water is primarily used
to produce steam for distillation processes, but also is used as a cooling medium to     as a result of their efforts, port neches
cool reactions and remove heat from different parts of processes. in 2011, the site      reduced water consumption by 30 percent
was using 7,100 gallons (27 cubic meters) of water per minute from lake sam              — a savings of 2,000 gallons (7.6 cubic
rayburn via the lower neches valley authority.                                           meters) a minute – that continues today.


*texas comptroller of public account special report on the drought's impact.



14 huntsman 2014 sustainability report

drought relief
birds and other native wildlife found
much needed relief from the 2011
drought at a 1,500-acre wildlife preserve
at the port neches plant site.




                                                     30%
                                                     reduction port neches plant




                                                     15%
                                                     reduction chocolate bayou plant




                                                     7%
                                                     reduction conroe plant




                                            huntsman 2014 sustainability report 15

in addition, an adjacent wildlife refuge on the
plant site provided much needed relief for local
wildlife. huntsman has dedicated more than
1,500 acres as a preserve for local nature and
wildlife. the refuge serves as a filter for treated
wastewater before it ultimately flows into the
neches river cleaner than the river water was
before, providing much needed water to an
area that would have otherwise dried up during
the drought.


huntman’s specialty chemical plant in conroe,
just outside houston, uses groundwater from



                                                      “huntsman leads the way in partnering with us
two onsite wells for production of specialty
amines, carbonates, urethane catalysts and


                                                      to ensure estuary areas along the ship channel
surfactants. as drought conditions worsened,
the plant looked for ways to reduce its total


                                                      are viable and healthy. its reclaimed wetland
water usage, including installation of a variable



                                                      area is an industry example of sustainability,
frequency drive motor on the plant’s main water
well, which adjusts the pumping rate of water


                                                      serving as a natural filter for produced waste-
out of the ground based on plant operation
demand. previously, the water was pumped


                                                      water, while providing an important habitat for
continuously, with excess water going into the



                                                      area wildlife.”
plant wastewater treatment system. the plant
also made improvements to increase condensate
recovery, collecting condensate produced during
the process and putting it back into the system.
as a result, site water usage dropped by                               clayton henderson
seven percent.
                                                                       assistant general manager, sabine-neches navigation district

although the plant has seen a 17 percent
increase in production over the past four years,
which increases the need for water to make
steam as part of the production process,              huntsman’s chocolate bayou plant manufactures linear alkylbenzene, an ingredient
thanks to measures taken during the drought,          that goes into detergents. the site uses 820,000 gallons (3,104 cubic meters) of
the conroe site has reduced its overall ground-       water per day for cooling tower evaporation and for steam boiler makeup. as
water use by two percent.                             drought conditions worsened and industry was called on to reduce water supplied
                                                      from the brazos river, the site reduced the amount of makeup water and recycled
“it’s important for us to focus on preserving         water for other uses, saving 15 percent in the amount of water intake and discharge.
water resources because it’s critical for our
community and our plant,” says david thomas,          “water is a shared resource. during this drought, we found out just how short a
team lead – environmental, conroe plant.              supply of fresh water can be,” notes john wiley, product and asset manager,
“making sure we preserve resources that               chocolate bayou plant. “as a member of the community, we need to realize we
are available to us improves the longevity            are part of a larger community and have to do our part to use water as a resource
of our operations.”                                   that’s not unlimited.”




16 huntsman 2014 sustainability report

process management: using water with care




optimize
when huntsman’s textile effects division
(te) took on a major consolidation effort to
improve its cost competitiveness, it made
breakthrough changes that also reduced
its global environmental footprint, including
a reduction in overall water intake and
discharge rates by 30 to 40 percent.

                                                the textile dyeing and finishing industry is
                                                one of the heaviest global consumers of water
                                                and energy. for every ton of product produced,
                                                another 10 tons of wastewater are discharged.


                                                project basel, te’s efforts to consolidate and
                                                move operations concentrated in switzerland
                                                to other facilities closer to today’s textile
                                                market, had a major impact on sustainability.




                                                atoto, mexico
                                                as part of project basel, equipment that would have other-
                                                wise been decommissioned was repurposed at the atoto,
                                                mexico, plant, saving more than $30 million and making
                                                it financially viable to transfer all solvent dye production
                                                from switzerland to mexico. the plant also features
                                                upgraded state-of-the art environmental control systems.




                                                    huntsman 2014 sustainability report 17

                                             in all, almost 400 products were trans-    locations, you have three times the water
                                             ferred to other sites under an “improve,   requirements. when we shut down our
                                             then move” strategy that saw significant   operations in basel, we consolidated
                                             innovations introduced to te plants        plants by color and chemistry to signifi-

project basel was comprised of               around the world.                          cantly reduce water requirements for
three interlinked projects:                                                             production and the amount of water


improve the overall quality of water being   during the dyeing and washing-off
discharged. the changes are critical as      process by up to 50 percent.
countries around the world are taking
measures to protect water resources.         “if the entire world’s reactive dyed cot-
many of the major textile-producing          ton was processed with avitera® se,”
nations are in regions of acute water        says griffin, “more than 820 billion liters
scarcity, where reducing the industry’s      of water per year could be saved – the
need for water could have an immediate       equivalent of 1.3 liters of fresh water
and substantial positive impact. in          per person per day in the major asian
china, the government is significantly       textile-processing countries, such as
reducing water volumes that can be           india, bangladesh and china.”
used by the textile industry, and in



                                                                                           “project basel is not a
mexico, the water table is lowering          in 2014, avitera® se took top
significantly due to drought.                honors in the icis innovation awards,


                                                                                            story of closure, but of
                                             presented by the world’s largest petro-


                                                                                            collaboration, expan-
besides optimizing its processes to          chemical market information provider.



                                                                                            sion and survival. it
conserve water resources, te has also        it also became the first recipient of the
introduced innovative products that          new innovation with best benefit to


                                                                                            leveraged the expertise
reduce the environmental footprint. its      environment or sustainability award.



                                                                                            and commitment of
avitera® se dyes significantly reduce
water and energy consumption and


                                                                                            our people, utilized
related carbon dioxide (co2) emissions


                                                                                            multiple technical
                                                                                            innovations and
                                                                                            dramatically improved
                                                                                            our global environ-
                                                                                            mental footprint.”
                         profit

                         • business turnaround                                                  barry griffin
                                                                                                vice president of operations
                         • $100 million cost savings                                            huntsman textile effects
                                                                                                huntsman sustainability council
                         • $30 million capital expense
                           savings

                         • business growth of two to
                           three times gross domestic
                           product in key markets

                         • $40 million investment
                           in innovation and plant
                           upgrades in thailand,
                           mexico and india



                                                                                           huntsman 2014 sustainability report 19

innovation: helping others save water



                                                              huntsman’s chemical products are used all over

innovate                                                      the world in unique applications that help reduce
                                                              water use in everything from food processing
                                                              and agriculture, to clothing manufacturing
                                                              and pipeline repair.

                                                              traditionally, huntsman’s polyurethane products and systems have been
                                                              used to make a wide variety of everyday goods such as durable foam for
                                                              car seats, insulation for houses, and power cords and connecting cables
                                                              for computers and earbuds. more recently, huntsman customers are also
                                                              finding innovative uses for this versatile product that can help reduce
                                                              water consumption.


                                                              forbo siegling, a leading producer of conveyor belt solutions, uses
                                                              thermoplastic polyurethane (tpu) from huntsman to make conveyor belts
                                                              for the food industry. tpu belting significantly minimizes the amount of
                                                              water needed for cleaning and sterilization of food-processing lines.




                    agriculture
                    hydrophilic polyurethane substrate uses
                    30 percent less water to grow tomatoes
                    in hydroponic greenhouses.




20 huntsman 2014 sustainability report

“food processors typically have to clean production lines at least once a day, wet-      beyond polyurethanes, huntsman produces
ting a belt that may be 300 feet long, then using a cleaning solution and rinsing the    dyes for the textile industry that reduce water
belts thoroughly,” explains jay leighton, forbo siegling research and development        use in the dyeing and washing-off processes
manager. “tpu makes a smoother belt that has fewer cavities and is more abrasion         by as much as 50 percent, potentially saving
resistant than belts made out of rubber. the result is a conveyor belt that is much      more than 820 billion liters of water annually.
easier to clean and requires less water.”                                                (see story on page 17.)


polyurethanes also are being used to repair leaking underground pipelines without        “water is one of the most precious resources
excavation and to produce leak-proof liners for firewater hoses, potable water tanks     available on planet earth and we need to do all
and pipelines for transporting drinking water in developing countries.                   we can to conserve it,” says liz mcdaniel, vice
                                                                                         president, environmental health and safety for
in agriculture, huntsman’s hydrophilic polyurethane substrate enables growers to use     huntsman’s polyurethanes division. “huntsman
30 percent less water to produce tomatoes in large-scale hydroponic greenhouses.         is proud to create chemistries that can help
originally developed for use in arid areas of the world, this substrate is designed to   deliver applications and products to address
hold water while offering maximum air/water ratio throughout crop life.                  that need.”




                                                                                          “we only have a limited
                                                                                           amount of natural
                                                                                           resources. with the world
                                                                                           population growing, we
                                                                                           need to conserve every-
                                                                                           thing we can and find
                                                                                           new ways to make the
                                                                                           products we need with
                                                                                           less energy and less water.
                                                                                           it impacts every person
                                                                                           on earth.”

                                                                                                    jay leighton
                                                                                                    r&d manager, forbo siegling llc




                                                                                             huntsman 2014 sustainability report 21

discharge: reducing our impact




protect
in pori, finland, one of huntsman’s
largest tio2 factories is setting
the standard for responsible
water use.




when huntsman acquired the pori titanium
dioxide (tio2) factory as part of the rockwood
acquisition in 2014, it gained a leader in
responsible water usage.


located on the west coast of finland, between
the delta of the kokemaki river and the gulf
of bothnia, the pori site uses an amazing
16 billion gallons (60.5 million cubic meters)     setting the standard
of river water per year – 90 percent of which      located on the kokemaki river, huntsman’s pori plant

returns to the river, with the remaining process   in finland is a leader in responsible water use.

water treated and discharged to sea.



22 huntsman 2014 sustainability report

                                                                                       pori, finland
                                                                                       located on the kokemaki river, the pori site
                                                                                       has developed systems to segregate and
                                                                                       manage water before carefully returning it
                                                                                       to the environment.




                                                                                      16 bil
                                                                                       uses 16 billion gallons
                                                                                       (60.5 million cubic meters)
                                                                                       of river water per year to
                                                                                       produce tio2




being close to the arctic circle, the river temperature rises above 59 degrees
                                                                                      90%
                                                                                       90 percent of the water
fahrenheit (15 degrees celsius) only for a couple of months per year and is usually    returns to the river
below 50 degrees fahrenheit (10 degrees celsius), often near freezing. since it
opened in 1961, the pori site has developed a brilliantly innovative way to use the
cold water from the river as a site resource to:
 • provide raw water for the tio2 manufacturing process and the sulfuric acid plant
 • maintain site cooling
                                                                                      10%
                                                                                       10 percent is treated
 • generate potable water                                                              and discharged to sea
 • supply the local industry power plant (which cannot use sea water)


realizing the privilege of having access to such an important river, the plant has
placed great importance on using water responsibly and has been engineered to
segregate and manage the water to carefully return it to the environment.
                                                                                      76,000
                                                                                       provides emergency
                                                                                       water supply for pori city,


“the kokemaki attracts tourists, sports activities
                                                                                       population 76,000



and fishing for leisure and jobs. being the largest
river estuary in the nordics, our local community
and environmental agency conducts significant
monitoring of fish and habitats. the site is
proud to fund river monitoring as part of
our operating permit.”

                                       kati ruusunen, pori ehs manager


                                                                                      huntsman 2014 sustainability report 23

keys to success

to segregate the river water within the site, a combination of processes
and procedures are applied:
• the site owns a lagoon within the kokemaki, adjacent to the
    riverbank beside the water intake pipe, and operates a settling
    pond to manage outfall water that is returned to the estuary some
    218 yards (200 meters) down river.
• inlet water is segregated into two types.
     o cooling water is settled, filtered and processed via a pumping
        station on a closed plant loop to various site utilities.
     o treated water is purified via a water treatment plant and either
        placed in a potable system or prepared for use in the
        tio2 washing process.
• all process water is treated at a site effluent treatment plant before               in fact, the potable water is so pure that the

    discharge to sea.                                                                  pori site has an agreement to act as standby
                                                                                       for provision of water to pori city in the event
                                                                                       of an emergency. water is available 24 hours
                                                                                       a day and can be piped directly to the town,
the lagoon is extremely useful as a blending facility. it can be used by huntsman      which would use some 10 percent of the
operators to control salinity of the river inlet water and to balance slush from the   generated potable water at the water
river if it freezes in winter. “the site team members are very proud of honing the     treatment plant.
skill to understand how the river behaves,” ruusunen says.
                                                                                       this emergency process was used success-
the water treatment plant converts river water into potable water and adheres to       fully in 2012 when 47,550 gallons (180 cubic
a strict national quality standard. plant personnel are highly trained, and the unit   meters) of water per hour were diverted to the
is subject to audit and sampling from external authorities three times per year.       city for some time following a pipe rupture in
                                                                                       the city’s supply line.
water is treated with ferric sulfate coagulant, which ironically originates as an
ecoproduct from the huntsman pigments tio2 process. the ferric additive is             “in many places, use of high volumes of river
supplied from the kemira factory on the shared kaanaa industrial park.                 water for once-through cooling would be a
                                                                                       concern. in this case it is an environmental
“ninety percent of the river water we treat and use in the factory is returned         advantage,” says robert bird, huntsman
to the river in a cleaner form than it arrives in regards to iron and solids,” says    pigments and additives sustainability and envi-
katriina heikkila, pori environmental manager. “the remainder is pumped to             ronment manager. “the abundance of natural
sea via a 3.4-mile (5.5-kilometer) pipeline, and both sea and river outfalls are       water, the treatment processes applied onsite
subject to an environmental permit that ensures discharge water is monitored           to clean the water, the management processes
and treated to a high quality. we are privileged to be able to operate this delicate   to care for the water and the fact that the
process sustainably and work closely with local authorities, communities and           discharge water returns to the river even
our site teams to protect the environment.”                                            cleaner is a great example of sustainability.”




24 huntsman 2014 sustainability report

community: partnering to make a difference




share
huntsman is providing villages and schools
in india with access to safe drinking water.




access to potable water in villages is still a problem in india. it has to be fetched
                                                                                        “once it was difficult to get
                                                                                         water – forget about clean
from long distances, a task usually done by women in the family who draw water



                                                                                         water to drink. now things
from a well or a pump in the area.




                                                                                         have changed. i can, at any
when huntsman textile effects acquired the baroda plant in 2009, it worked to
clean up contaminated groundwater and integrate treated water in its processes,


                                                                                         time, get clean water for
and then focused on providing clean drinking water to residents outside its gates.



                                                                                         my family.”
at the site’s water treatment plant, huntsman treats water to meet international
standards for its own use and then also to provide drinking water to local villagers.



                                                                                                  umaben thakor
huntsman also works with pollution control boards to improve the overall quality
of underground water by groundwater treatment system and monitoring onsite and
offsite wells. today, drinking water is made available to villagers of umraya and                 resident of umraya village




                                                                                          huntsman 2014 sustainability report 25

   baroda, india
   huntsman’s textile effects plant in baroda,
   india, has worked to clean up contaminated
   groundwater supplies onsite, as well
   provide clean drinking water to local
   residents outside its gates.




   baroda, india




   4,000
   onsite capacity to produce
   almost 4,000 gallons
   (15 cubic meters) of
   water per hour




   huntsman provides
   fresh drinking water to
   the primary school of
   luna village




   2,900
   2,900 gallons (11 cubic
   meters) per day of clean
   drinking water is used by
   local villagers




26 huntsman 2014 sustainability report

luna at various outlets provided near         working with local industry to improve
the factory gate and across the site          overall water discharge quality.
boundary. current consumption is
approximately 2,900 gallons (11 cubic         according to the world bank, india
meters) per day, which is expected to         is the largest user of groundwater in
increase in the future.                       the world. if current trends continue,
                                              in 20 years approximately 60 percent
however, social responsibility does not       of all of india’s aquifers will be in
stop at the factory gate. in umraya           critical condition.
village, huntsman has helped by giving
funds to install a reverse osmosis system     “having a safe, adequate water supply
to provide the entire village of 3,500        is a chief concern for society today.
people with clean drinking water.             at huntsman, we believe we have a
huntsman also maintains the drinking          responsibility to be part of the solution,”
                                                                                            clean water supplies
water facility for approximately 450 stu-     says site manager sanjay soor.
                                                                                            local residents have access to clean drinking water
dents in luna primary school. recently,                                                     at various outlets near the huntsman plant gates.
the site replaced all the system’s filters.


in addition, huntsman is also educating
people about proper water use and




                                                                                            “huntsman is a true
                                                                                            example of sustainability.
                                                                                            we are grateful for the
                                                                                            company’s constant help
                                                                                            with drinking water and
                                                                                            educational facilities for
                                                                                            our schools over the past
                                                                                            five years.”

                                                                                                    gajanan milkha
                                                                                                    principal of luna primary school




                                                                                            school support
                                                                                            huntsman ensures that more than 400 students at nearby
                                                                                            primary schools have access to clean drinking water.




                                                                                               huntsman 2014 sustainability report 27

              data on     performance



                           in this report, huntsman shares 11 key metrics from the global reporting
                           initiative (gri) sustainability reporting guidelines for 2014. our sustainability
                           report generally conforms to the gri 3.1 guidelines. the list of 11 gri standard
                           disclosures on which we are reporting can be found on page 42.

                           this year, for the first time since we started reporting on sustainability, we are
                           including data that relates to an acquisition, specifically the acquisition of the
                           performance additives and titanium dioxide businesses of rockwood holdings
                           inc., in the fourth quarter of 2014. as a result, we have made some changes to
                           the way we usually present our performance data.

                           our intention always is to present our data so that stakeholders can easily track
                           our progress. so in this 2014 report, we show the data from rockwood – now
                           known as pigments and additives (p&a) – separately from our usual corporate
                           metrics graphs. p&a data are shown to the side of each graph in a circle
                           containing a singular value.

                           this is the first year the new p&a sites have been asked to submit data for
                           huntsman’s metrics. because we have no historical data for comparison, we
                           are unable to apply huntsman’s usual quality assurance protocol to the 2014
                           p&a data. however, we are confident that the values listed for rockwood site
                           metrics have been reported carefully and accurately. please note: while the
                           p&a sites joined huntsman in the fourth quarter of 2014, the values shown are
                           the annual values for these sites.

                           please contact us at sustainability@huntsman.com with any questions or
                           comments about these changes.




                                                this is the first year the new p&a sites
                                                have been asked to submit data for
                                                huntsman’s metrics.




28 huntsman 2014 sustainability report

                                                 t o ta l 2 0 1 4 w at e r u s a g e




                               77,005,280 m3
 153,249,639 m3                                                                                                143,992,190 m3



 newly acquired p&a
                                                                                50,081,857 m3                  newly acquired p&a
  businesses 2014                                                                                               businesses 2014




                                      water in                                         water out




                      total water withdrawal

                      in order for huntsman to focus on water risk, we conducted our first-ever global water risk
                      assessment in 2014. the results allow huntsman to analyze the adequacy of available water
en08                  supply for current operations, understand the capacity for expansion of operations based on
                      current water supply, manage potential water savings and overall water use efficiency in the
                      manufacturing process, and understand flood risks and damages, among other critical water
                      aspects. this will allow us to identify our most water-intensive operations and most water-
                      strained areas of operations, and consequently allow us to determine where best to reduce
                      our water consumption.




                                                                                           huntsman 2014 sustainability report 29

                                                  d i s c h a r g e s t o w at e r

                              14,000




                              12,000




                              10,000




                               8,000
              c od (tonnes)




                                                                                                                                     399 tonnes
                               6,000




                                                                                                                                   newly acquired p&a
                               4,000                                                                                                businesses 2014




                               2,000




                                       2010     2011           2012                       2013                    2014
                                       10,260    8,461           8,350                     7,869                   7,463
                                       tonnes   tonnes          tonnes                    tonnes                  tonnes

                                                                  2006 baseline (10,219 tonnes)       production intensity trend




how we did                                                                                         discharges to water


for four consecutive years, chemical oxygen demand                                                 huntsman’s discharges to water have
                                                                                                   decreased since 2010. there are two reasons
(cod) levels continued to drop compared to 2010 levels                                             for this trend. first, we are complying with –
                                                                                                   and in many cases exceeding – increasingly
and are well below our 2006 baseline. also, relative                                               strict water quality standards. second, we
intensity tracks with our improved cod levels.                                                     understand water quality’s direct connection
                                                                                                   with water scarcity. keeping water clean goes
reductions are due in part to increased permit limits                                              hand in hand with the efficient use of water,
                                                                                                   and huntsman’s improvements on water
and additional government controls over discharges.                                                quality strengthen the company’s commitment
                                                                                                   to conserving water.




30 huntsman 2014 sustainability report

                                                                       t o ta l e n e r g y c o n s u m p t i o n

                                                  70,000




                                                  60,000




                                                  50,000
           total e nergy use (terrajoules - tj)




                                                  40,000




                                                                                                                                                                 16,861 tj
                                                  30,000




                                                                                                                                                              newly acquired p&a
                                                  20,000                                                                                                       businesses 2014




                                                  10,000




                                                            2010          2011              2012                      2013                   2014
                                                           52,579 tj     55,001 tj         53,579 tj                 53,369 tj             56,990 tj


                                                                                              2006 baseline (53,764 tj)          production intensity trend




how we did                                                                  total energy consumption


total energy use in 2014                                                    energy use was again impacted by record production levels and record profitability
                                                                            in 2014. this is the second year since 2010 that our total energy consumption
exceeded our 2006 baseline.                                                 increased compared to the prior year. this is due to increased production and the
                                                                            fact that three of our largest manufacturing operations were due for major, routine
due to record production                                                    maintenance in 2015, resulting in inefficient manufacturing.
levels in 2014, total energy
                                                                            huntsman has continued to stay competitive by improving the energy efficiency of
consumption also increased                                                  our operations, thereby reducing our energy impacts and enhancing our financial
                                                                            efficiency. we continue to improve the reliable and economical supply and use of
relative to 2013.                                                           energy at our sites, using efficient technologies to generate steam and electricity, as
                                                                            well as energy efficient production processes. we have implemented comprehen-
                                                                            sive energy management plans to help analyze and continuously improve energy
                                                                            efficiency at our plants.




                                                                                                                                 huntsman 2014 sustainability report 31

                                                  t o ta l d i r e c t a n d i n d i r e c t g h g e m i s s i o n s b y w e i g h t

                                            4.5




                                            4.0




                                            3.5




                                            3.0
                c o 2 e (m illion tonnes)




                                            2.5




                                            2.0

                                                                                                                                                                  1,536,224
                                                                                                                                                                    tonnes
                                            1.5


                                                                                                                                                               newly acquired p&a
                                            1.0                                                                                                                 businesses 2014




                                             .5




                                                      2010              2011             2012                       2013                     2014
                                                     3,456,022         3,602,815        3,545,720                  3,479,917               3,559,815
                                                       tonnes            tonnes           tonnes                     tonnes                  tonnes


                                                                                       2006 baseline (3,578,935 tonnes)           production intensity trend




how we did                                                                                                                     total greenhouse gas emissions


our total carbon dioxide (co2e) emissions in 2014                                                                              increases were due to the addition of newly
                                                                                                                               acquired sites’ emissions, increased production,
increased above our 2006 baseline. however, our                                                                                process inefficiencies due to planned routine
                                                                                                                               maintenance to occur in 2015, and increased
greenhouse gas (ghg) intensity rose less proportionally,                                                                       burn of make-up gas at some of our flares for
indicating we are still efficient and are reducing ghg                                                                         regulatory compliance requirements.

emissions per tonne of production since 2010.                                                                                  huntsman continues to focus on managing
                                                                                                                               its environmental footprint and delivering solu-
                                                                                                                               tions to help our customers manage theirs.
                                                                                                                               increased use of renewable-based energy
 en16                                                                                                                          is limited but does impact our trends in a
                                                                                                                               positive manner. we also capture exhaust
                                                                                                                               co2 from some sites and sell it into the
                                                                                                                               industrial gas market.




32 huntsman 2014 sustainability report

                                      total direct ghg emissions by weight                                                             sources of greenhouse gas

                                3.5
                                                                                                                                       the combustion of fossil fuels needed to manufac-
                                                                                                                                       ture chemicals and to generate electricity and steam
                                3.0                                                                                                    releases co2, methane and nitrous oxide — all
                                                                                                                                       greenhouse gases. other ghgs that may be

                                2.5
                                                                                                                                       released during chemical processing operations are
                                                                                                                                       hydrofluorocarbons (hfc), perfluorocarbons (pfc)
co 2 e (m illion tonnes)




                                                                                                                                       and sulphur hexafluoride (sf6). these are typically
                                2.0
                                                                                                                                       released from manufacturing equipment that uses
                                                                                                                     1,122,963
                                                                                                                      tonnes
                                                                                                                                       these chemicals as refrigerants.
                                1.5


                                                                                                                  newly acquired p&a
                                1.0                                                                                businesses 2014     ghg emissions emitted at huntsman
                                                                                                                                       manufacturing facilities worldwide

                                 .5                                                                                                    defined by various protocols, scope 1 emissions
                                                                                                                                       are ghg emissions attributable to the combustion
                                                                                                                                       of fossil fuels at our sites or non-combustion ghgs
                                         2010           2011             2012       2013             2014                              emitted from manufacturing processes or refrigera-
                                        2,294,147      2,374,632       2,337,665   2,309,907        2,386,446
                                          tonnes         tonnes          tonnes      tonnes           tonnes                           tion units. scope 1 ghg emissions from huntsman
                                                                                                                                       are generally proportional to our direct energy
                                              2006 baseline (2,487,917 tonnes)       production intensity trend
                                                                                                                                       consumption. scope 2 emissions are associated
                                                                                                                                       with the generation of indirect energy and are
                                                                                                                                       proportional to our indirect energy consumption
                                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                       (i.e., purchased electricity). huntsman does
                                                                                                                                       not measure or disclose scope 3 emissions as
                                 total indirect ghg emissions by weight
                                                                                                                                       defined below.
                                3.5


                                                                                                                                       greenhouse gases are reported in standard units of
                                3.0                                                                                                    million metric tonnes of co2 equivalents (mmt co2e)
                                                                                                                                       to describe the magnitude of ghg emissions or

                                2.5
                                                                                                                                       reductions. therefore, our 2006 baseline year emis-
                                                                                                                                       sions were 3.58 mmt co2e. (huntsman’s baseline
c o 2 e ( m illion ton n e s)




                                                                                                                                       of 2006 emissions excludes the base chemicals
                                2.0
                                                                                                                                       and polymers division, which was divested in 2006
                                                                                                                      413,261
                                                                                                                      tonnes           and 2007, and the newly acquired pigments and
                                1.5                                                                                                    additives businesses.)

                                                                                                                  newly acquired p&a
                                1.0                                                                                businesses 2014     1. the ghg protocol defines direct and indirect emissions as follows:
                                                                                                                                          • direct ghg emissions are emissions from sources that are owned
                                                                                                                                             or controlled by the reporting entity.
                                                                                                                                          • indirect ghg emissions are emissions that are a consequence
                                 .5                                                                                                          of the activities of the reporting entity, but occur at sources owned
                                                                                                                                             or controlled by another entity.
                                                                                                                                          the ghg protocol further categorizes these direct and indirect emissions
                                                                                                                                          into three broad scopes:
                                                                                                                                          • scope 1: all direct ghg emissions.
                                         2010           2011             2012       2013             2014                                 • scope 2: indirect ghg emissions from consumption of purchased
                                        1,161,875      1,228,183       1,208,055   1,170,010        1,173,369
                                                                                                                                              electricity, heat or steam.
                                          tonnes         tonnes          tonnes      tonnes           tonnes                              • scope 3: other indirect emissions, such as the extraction and
                                                                                                                                              production of purchased materials and fuels, transport-related
                                                                                                                                              activities in vehicles not owned or controlled by the reporting entity,
                                              2006 baseline (1,091,017 tonnes)       production intensity trend                               electricity-related activities (e.g,t&d losses) not covered in scope 2,
                                                                                                                                              outsourced activities, waste disposal, etc.


                                                                                                                                                  huntsman 2014 sustainability report 33

                                                      t o ta l h a z a r d o u s a n d n o n - h a z a r d o u s w a s t e b y w e i g h t

                                                1.8




                                                1.6




                                                1.4




                                                1.2
                total waste (m illion tonnes)




                                                1.0




                                                0.8

                                                                                                                                                                         438,961
                                                                                                                                                                         tonnes
                                                0.6


                                                                                                                                                                     newly acquired p&a
                                                0.4                                                                                                                   businesses 2014




                                                0.2




                                                             2010             2011            2012                       2013                      2014
                                                            1,111,688        1,224,999       1,105,128                  1,191,072                1,258,806
                                                              tonnes           tonnes          tonnes                     tonnes                   tonnes


                                                                                            2006 baseline (1,277,760 tonnes)            production intensity trend




how we did                                                                                                                          total waste


there were increases in both hazardous and non-haz-                                                                                 non-hazardous waste and hazardous waste,
                                                                                                                                    as defined by local laws, are strictly monitored
ardous waste totals for some businesses due to site                                                                                 and reported at each of our manufacturing
                                                                                                                                    facilities. they are tracked and reported sepa-
closures. however some of these wastes were burned                                                                                  rately. the reported waste generation includes
in licensed kilns for heat recovery, and scrap metals                                                                               waste that is sent to offsite landfills, injected
                                                                                                                                    into deep underground wells, sent to third-
were recycled after decontamination.                                                                                                party treatment facilities or reclaimed/reused/
                                                                                                                                    recycled (including burned as fuel – waste
                                                                                                                                    cogeneration.) this category also includes

 en22                                                                                                                               waste generated during normal operation
                                                                                                                                    and maintenance activities.




34 huntsman 2014 sustainability report

                                                                                   n o n - h a z a r d o u s wa s t e b y weight                                                 non-hazardous waste

                                                                             1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                 how we did
                                                                             1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                 disposal of non-hazardous waste
                                                                                                                                                                                 increased in 2014 but remains
                                 non-hazardous waste (m illion tonnes)




                                                                             1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                 below the 2006 baseline, as it
                                                                             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                 was in 2013.
                                                                                                                                                                406,025
                                                                                                                                                                tonnes           increases were due in part to the successful reduction
                                                                             0.6
                                                                                                                                                                                 of hazardous waste at our port neches operations by
                                                                                                                                                                                 reducing that waste and converting the remainder
                                                                                                                                                            newly acquired p&a
                                                                             0.4                                                                             businesses 2014     to non-hazardous waste. increased production also
                                                                                                                                                                                 resulted in higher waste generation.

                                                                             0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                 it is huntsman corporate policy to prevent and
                                                                                                                                                                                 reduce waste. we regularly carry out audits to inspect
                                                                                                                                                                                 external waste management plants and ensure that
                                                                                     2010          2011             2012      2013             2014
                                                                                    982,657       1,047,948        917,580   1,025,533        1,098,675                          our waste is disposed of correctly. since our baseline
                                                                                     tonnes         tonnes          tonnes     tonnes           tonnes
                                                                                                                                                                                 year, the majority of huntsman’s total non-hazardous
                                                                                         2006 baseline (1,130,911 tonnes)      production intensity trend                        waste is consistently made up of iron-based salts and
                                                                                                                                                                                 gypsum, generated by the pigments and additives
                                                                                                                                                                                 business. ongoing efforts by our pigments and addi-
                                                                                                                                                                                 tives division to reduce these wastes and improve
                                                                                                                                                                                 environmental performance have been very success-
                                                                                      h az a r d o u s wa s t e b y w e i ght                                                    ful, with sites turning potential waste into co-products
                                                                         280,000                                                                                                 with potential beneficial uses. for example, the
                                                                                                                                                                                 pigments and additives division has secondary sales
                                                                                                                                                                                 of iron-based salts and gypsum into water treatment,
                                                                         240,000
                                                                                                                                                                                 agriculture and building construction markets.

                                                                         200,000
haz ard ous waste ( ton n e s)




                                                                                                                                                                                 hazardous waste
                                                                         160,000

                                                                                                                                                                 32,936
                                                                                                                                                                                 how we did
                                                                                                                                                                 tonnes
                                                                         120,000                                                                                                 hazardous waste disposal for
                                                                                                                                                            newly acquired p&a   2014 continued to decrease as
                                                                          80,000                                                                             businesses 2014
                                                                                                                                                                                 it did in 2013, yet it remains
                                                                          40,000
                                                                                                                                                                                 above the 2006 baseline.
                                                                                                                                                                                 decreases were due in part to the successful
                                                                                                                                                                                 reduction of hazardous waste at our port neches
                                                                                     2010          2011             2012      2013             2014
                                                                                    129,196        177,217         187,713   165,539           160,131                           operations by reducing that waste and converting
                                                                                     tonnes         tonnes          tonnes    tonnes            tonnes
                                                                                                                                                                                 the remainder to non-hazardous waste.
                                                                                         2006 baseline (146,849 tonnes)        production intensity trend




                                                                                                                                                                                      huntsman 2014 sustainability report 35

                                                           non-ghg emissions to air

                                         22,500




                                         20,000




                                         17,500




                                         15,000
               air em issions (tonnes)




                                         12,500




                                         10,000

                                                                                                                                                             3,618
                                                                                                                                                            tonnes
                                          7,500


                                                                                                                                                       newly acquired p&a
                                          5,000                                                                                                         businesses 2014




                                          2,500




                                                  2010      2011                   2012                          2013                2014
                                                  16,425    19,007                 13,673                        12,257              14,397
                                                  tonnes    tonnes                 tonnes                        tonnes              tonnes


                                                                                 2006 baseline (16,771 tonnes)            production intensity trend




how we did                                                    non-ghg emissions to air


total hazardous air pollutant                                 increases were due to the addition of newly acquired sites’ emissions, increased
                                                              production, process inefficiencies due to planned routine maintenance to occur
emissions increased by                                        in 2015, and increased burn of make-up gas at some of our flares for regulatory
                                                              compliance requirements.
2,140 tonnes in 2014
compared to 2013.                                             on a routine basis, huntsman monitors, tracks and reports chemical emissions
                                                              to the atmosphere – whether specifically permitted, part of routine operations or
                                                              accidental releases. air emissions are releases of volatile organic compounds
                                                              (vocs), carbon monoxide (co), nitrogen oxides (nox), sulfur oxides (sox),
  en20                                                                                                                       1
                                                              particulate matter and other contaminants. permitted air emissions are typically
                                                              generated during routine manufacturing operations, volatilization from chemical
                                                              storage, wastewater treatment and equipment emissions.


                                                              1. greenhouse gases (ghg) are also monitored, but are reported separately. (please see en-16 -
                                                                greenhouse gas emissions, page 32.)




36 huntsman 2014 sustainability report

                                                                i n j u ry a n d i l l n e s s r at e o v e r t i m e

                                              2.7




                                              2.4




                                              2.1




                                              1.8
            total rec ordable incident rate




                                              1.5




                                              1.2

                                                                                                                                                                           1.54
                                                                                                                                                                           rate
                                              0.9


                                                                                                                                                                     newly acquired p&a
                                              0.6                                                                                                                     businesses 2014




                                              0.3




                                                    2010                    2011                    2012                    2013                     2014
                                                    0.60                     0.46                    0.43                    0.40                     0.40
                                                    rate                     rate                    rate                    rate                     rate
                                                                                                                                      us chemical industry average

                                                    incident rates are calculated using the us occupational safety and health administration (osha) formula:
                                                             total recordable incident rate = # of injuries and illnesses x 200,000 / # of work hours




how we did                                                                       injury and illness rate


in 2014, huntsman achieved                                                       while the u.s. chemical industry average focuses on employees only, huntsman’s
                                                                                 trir includes not only data related to our associates but also our contractors.
a total recordable incident                                                      we expect all persons at our sites to adopt our safety culture and belief that
                                                                                 “nothing we do is worth getting hurt for.”
rate (trir) of 0.40, equal to
our 2013 record performance.                                                     in an effort to continue improving safety at our sites, we implemented a program
                                                                                 focused on near miss high-potential incidents (hpi). learnings from these non-
                                                                                 recordable events are shared companywide to prevent injuries and illnesses
                                                                                 before they occur.
  la07
                                                                                 as part of the rockwood integration, ehs workshops were held to introduce the
                                                                                 new sites to huntsman’s ehs culture and practices, and we are now on a journey
                                                                                 to implement our global ehs standards at these facilities. the sites previously did
                                                                                 not include contractor incidents in their safety statistics, and they are working to
                                                                                 better incorporate these third parties into their site programs. if these sites had
                                                                                 been part of huntsman for all of 2014, the estimated trir for the company would
                                                                                 have been 0.58.

                                                                                                                                          huntsman 2014 sustainability report 37

                                                             p r o c e s s s a f e t y i m p l e m e n tat i o n r at e

                                                100



                                                90



                                                80



                                                70
               im plem entation com plete (%)




                                                60



                                                50



                                                40



                                                30



                                                20



                                                10




                                                      2012                2013                       2014                     2015             2016    2017
                                                      67%                  81%                        93.7%                    98%             99.5%   99.9%

                                                                 implementation rates compare number of closed process safety gaps to total number
                                                                       of gaps identified through the process safety procedure gap analysis.




how we did                                                                   process safety implementation rate


by the end of 2014, company-                                                 process safety has always been a huntsman core value and an integral part of our
                                                                             global ehs standards. several years ago, huntsman’s senior leadership embarked
wide implementation of                                                       on a journey to develop and install a more robust world-class process safety
                                                                             management system across all huntsman facilities. we are making steady progress
huntsman’s world-class                                                       with the implementation of this multi-year commitment.
process safety management
                                                                             huntsman’s global process safety center of excellence, staffed by highly skilled
standard reached 94 percent                                                  and experienced process safety experts, conducts process safety leadership
                                                                             workshops in every region of the world in which huntsman operates to ensure
completion.                                                                  all levels of management understand their role in proactively preventing process-
                                                                             related incidents.




38 huntsman 2014 sustainability report

percentage of associates           so03             average hours of                     la10
trained in anti-corruption                          training per year

how we did                                          how we did
in 2013, 99.3 percent of                            2014 compliance training*

huntsman associates received                                                 total hours           number of             average training
                                                      region                 completed             associates           hours per associate
training in anti-corruption.                          americas                 17,278                 3,857                       4.48
                                                      apac1                    20,484                 4,053                       5.05
huntsman has zero tolerance for illegal behavior.
                                                              2
                                                      eame                     27,069                 6,007                       4.51
our business conduct guidelines (bcg)
outline the ethics and values of the company          totals                   64,831                13,917                       4.66
and is shared with all associates. we have an       these compliance training hours are for online, computer-based training.
ethics and compliance office responsible for        1. asia/pacific
implementing policies and procedures to             2. europe/africa/middle east
                                                    * these values include the newly acquired pigments and additives (p&a) sites, with the exception of p&a sites in germany.
guard against corruption. compliance man-
agers are located in each region to provide
                                                    huntsman requires newly hired associates to complete core compliance training
support and training. we offer online ethics
                                                    modules within the first 60 days of employment. in addition, current associates are
and compliance training to associates in their
                                                    required to complete refresher training on a regular basis. core compliance training
local languages, supplemented by instructor-led
                                                    modules include respect in the workplace, business conduct guidelines, records
training as needed.
                                                    management, ehs protection, global anti-bribery and the huntsman privacy pro-
                                                    gram, and are offered in both computer-based and instructor-led formats. additional
huntsman provides many resources to
                                                    training beyond the core modules may also be provided depending on the asso-
enable associates to report concerns or ask
                                                    ciate’s role and the region of the world. because of our global nature, we translate
questions, including a confidential reporting
                                                    our training programs into local languages. at sites with low literacy rates or limited
service that allows associates to safely report
                                                    computer access, we conduct instructor-led training in local languages.
suspected wrongdoing in the workplace or to
seek clarification regarding ethical dilemmas.
associates can access this service in their
                                                    total training hours on policies
local languages either by phone or online.
                                                    concerning human rights
                                                                                                               hr03
we reissued huntsman’s bcg to make them
                                                    how we did
more user friendly and easier to read. the
guidelines are available in the languages of our    in 2013, 99.9 percent of huntsman associates
associates in print and web-based formats.
                                                    completed, in total, more than 10,000 training hours
external stakeholders can access the bcg
on the huntsman corporate website,                  on policies concerning human rights.*
www.huntsman.com.
                                                    huntsman expects all our associates to be aware of and understand the company’s
                                                    core policies and procedures. all new associates are required to complete core
                                                    compliance training, which includes information on human rights policies and covers
                                                    regulations on child labor and industrial labor laws. huntsman associates are
                                                    periodically required to complete online training on respect in the workplace,
                                                    code of business conduct and the huntsman privacy program.

                                                    * these values do not include the newly acquired pigments and additives sites.




                                                                                                           huntsman 2014 sustainability report 39

total training hours in leadership                                   direct economic value generated                                  ec01
                                                                     and distributed
how we did
in 2014, 86 associates participated in                               how we did
huntsman’s global foundation training                                for the fourth consecutive year, we
program, and 277 participated in team                                generated revenues of over $11 billion.
management training.                                                 net income for 2014 was $345 million,
                                                                     compared to $149 million in 2013.
huntsman develops associates who are in or will assume a
supervisory or a managerial position in the organization to ensure
                                                                     our company achieved impressive earnings this past year, reflecting
these associates feel comfortable dealing with employee-related
                                                                     our ongoing commitment to maximize product quality. the majority
matters, such as setting objectives, coaching, career development
                                                                     of huntsman corporation’s earnings came from divisions of our
plans and time-off approvals. this training is made available in
                                                                     business that are inherently less volatile and have higher underlying
local languages.
                                                                     growth characteristics.


percentage of associates receiving                                   year ended december 31, 2014                                                        in millions
performance reviews                          la12                    revenues ....................................................................$ 11,578
                                                                     gross profit ....................................................................$ 1,919
how we did                                                           interest expense, net ........................................................$ 205
                                                                     net income ......................................................................$ 345
in 2014, approximately 74 percent of                                 adjusted ebitda1 ..........................................................$ 1,340
                                                                     capital expenditures2 ........................................................$ 564
huntsman associates received performance                             total assets..................................................................$ 11,002
                                                                     net debt3 ......................................................................$ 4,330
reviews and development discussions.
of those, some 98 percent completed                                  1. for a reconciliation of net income to adjusted ebitda, see table below.
                                                                     2. net of reimbursements of $37 million.
                                                                     3. net debt calculated as total debt excluding affiliates less cash.
performance plans.
huntsman’s culture encourages annual, documented performance
and career development discussions.
                                                                     reconciliation of net income to adjusted ebitda
                                                                     in millions                                                   2014            2013         2012
                                                                     net income                                            $ 345                  $ 149        $ 373
percentage of associates covered                                     net income attributable to noncontrolling interests      (22)                   (21)         (10)
by collective bargaining
                                             la04                    net income attributable to huntsman corporation       $ 323                  $ 128        $ 363
                                                                     interest expense, net                                   205                    190          226
                                                                     income tax expense from continuing operations             51                   125          169
how we did                                                           income tax benefit from discontinued operations            (2)                    (2)          (3)
                                                                     depreciation and amortization                           445                    448          432
in 2014, an estimated 49 percent of                                  ebitda                                              $ 1,022                  $ 889      $ 1,187
                                                                     acquisition and integration expenses                      67                     21             5
huntsman associates were covered by                                    and purchase accounting adjustments
                                                                     loss on initial consolidation of subsidiaries               -                     -             4
collective bargaining agreements or work                             ebitda from discontinued operations
                                                                     gain on disposition of businesses/assets
                                                                                                                               10
                                                                                                                                (3)
                                                                                                                                                       5
                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                     5
                                                                                                                                                                    (3)
councils, the same as in 2013.                                       loss on early extinguishment of debt
                                                                     extraordinary gain on the acquisition of a business
                                                                                                                               28
                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                      51
                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                   80
                                                                                                                                                                    (2)
                                                                     certain legal settlements and related expenses              3                     9           11
an estimated 52 percent were covered in 2012 and 55 percent in       amortization of pension and postretirement                51                     74           43
                                                                       actuarial losses
2011. due to privacy laws in the european union, we are unable to
                                                                     restructuring, impairment and plant-closing             162                    164          109
provide an accurate account of the exact number covered. there         and transition costs
were no major union campaigns or unionization at any of our sites.   adjusted ebitda                                     $ 1,340             $ 1,213         $ 1,439




40 huntsman 2014 sustainability report

report parameters




we follow a calendar-year reporting period as we have with
previous annual sustainability reports. our most recent report
was for 2013, published in september 2014.


for this 2014 sustainability report, we consider input from
third-party questionnaires, external ratings and general indices,
as well as feedback from stakeholders consulted throughout the
year. the metrics and data provided in this report reflect that
input and feedback and help us continue to enhance our
reporting and improve our sustainability program.


the report includes data related to all huntsman enterprises
                                                                      a publicly held company,
where we have operational control (more than 50 percent) and
joint ventures where we have management control. notably, this        huntsman corporation’s
2014 report also includes full-year data for the new pigments         global headquarters is in
and additives (p&a) businesses, which huntsman acquired
in the fourth quarter of 2014. the data reported have been
                                                                      the woodlands, texas, usa.
obtained primarily from our financial management reporting
systems, various human resources information systems and the          as of december 31, 2014,
huntsman corporate reporting systems for ehs performance
                                                                      total common stock outstand-
indicators. we are confident in the overall reliability of the data
reported, but recognize that some of these data are subject to a      ing was 246 million shares.
certain degree of uncertainty, inherent to limitations associated
with measuring, calculating and estimating data.                      for more information, please
minor corrections in historic data may be due to data errors or
                                                                      see the investor relations
other approved reasons. each year, energy consumption and             section of our website,
environmental emission estimates are recalculated and revised         www.huntsman.com.
for all years in the annual sustainability report, as attempts are
made to improve both the analyses, through the use of better
methods or data, and the overall usefulness of the report.



                                                                           li s ted
                                                                           hun
                                                                           nyse
                                                                           huntsman 2014 sustainability report 41

     standard disclosures: performance indicators




                 total water withdrawal             index per gri reporting standards
       en08      page 29
                                                    1.1    report contents ..........................................page 1
                 total direct and indirect
                                                    2.1    organization name ..............................................7
       en16      greenhouse gas emissions
                 page 32                            2.2    primary products ................................................7
                                                    2.3    operational structure ..........................................7
                 non-ghg emissions to air           2.4    headquarters location ......................................41
       en20      page 36
                                                    2.5    number of countries for operations......................7
                 total waste by type and            2.6    nature of ownership ..........................................11
       en22      disposal method                    2.7    markets served ..................................................7
                 page 34
                                                    2.8    scale of company................................................7
                 percentage of associates           2.9    significant company changes ..............................7
       la04      covered by collective bargaining   3.1    reporting periods ..............................................41
                 page 40
                                                    3.2    date of most recent report................................41

                 rates of injury, occupational      3.3    reporting cycle ................................................41
       la07      disease and lost days              3.4    contact for questions ........................................28
                 page 37
                                                    3.5    report scope and boundary ..............................41

                 average hours of training          3.6    boundary of report ............................................41
       la10      per year                           3.7    limitations on scope of report ..........................41
                 page 39                            3.8    joint venture reporting......................................41

                 percentage of associates           3.10 restatements of past-reported information ........41
       la12      receiving performance reviews      3.11 changes from previous reports..........................41
                 page 40                            3.12 table of standard disclosures location ..............42
                                                    4.1    governance structure ........................................11
                 percentage of associates
       so03      trained in anti-corruption         4.2    chair of governance body ..................................11
                 page 39                            4.3    independent members of governance body ........11
                                                    4.4    mechanisms for governance direction ................11
                 total training hours on policies
       hr03      concerning human rights            4.14 stakeholder groups ............................................3
                 page 39

                 direct economic value
       ec01      generated and distributed
                 page 40




42 huntsman 2014 sustainability report


global headquarters
huntsman corporation
10003 woodloch forest drive
the woodlands
texas 77380
usa
telephone +1 281 719 6000
fax +1 281 719 6416



www.huntsman.com
www.twitter.com/huntsman_corp
www.facebook.com/huntsmancorp
www.linkedin.com/company/huntsman




copyright © 2015 huntsman corporation or an affiliate thereof. all rights reserved.
the use of the symbol ® herein signifies the registration of the associated trademark in one or more, but not all, countries.
