                       corporate social responsibility report



                                        2012




53889312409.indd   1                                     2012/10/23   17:56:53

    con tents

    top message                               ………………………………………………………………………………………                                                      2
                       editorial policy       ………………………………………………………………………………………                                                      3


                              s csr management ……………………………………………………………………………… 4
              the ibiden group’
                       corporate philosophy／consolidated medium-term management plan ………                               4
                       csr policy and scope of activity                              ………                               5
                       dialogue and cooperation with stakeholders                    ………                               7
                       external corporate evaluation                                 ………                               7
                       assessment by third-party organizations and our actions       ………                               8
              internal control                  ………………………………………………………………………………                                                       9
                       basic approach to corporate governance               ……… 9
                       summary of the existing corporate governance systems ……… 10
                       compensation of directors and corporate auditors     ……… 11
                       risk management                                      ……… 11
                       compliance                                           ……… 13
                       csr management in the supply chain                   ……… 16
              human resource management ……………………………………………………………………………… 18
                       philosophy for human resource management and promotional structure ………                          18
                       respect for human rights                                                           ………          19
                       employment and development of human resources                                      ………          19
                       respecting diverse work styles                                                     ………          20
                       labor and management cooperation to create a worker-friendly workplace ………                      21
                       occupational health and safety – basic policy／occupational health and safety policy
                       organization chart of occupational health and safety management                    ………          22
                       measures for safety／managing employee health                                       ………          23
              environmental management ……………………………………………………………………………… 24
                       environmental management - basic policy／environmental policy／
                       organization chart of environmental management                                       ………        24
                       management system certification status／
                       environment and occupational health and safety-related laws and regulations ………                 25
                       guidelines for environmental activities／coping with climate change issues ………                   26
                       resource circulation                                                                 ………        29
                       appropriate chemical control                                                         ………        30
                       understanding the influence on biodiversity                                          ………        31
                       environmental contribution through products                                          ………        32
                       environmental accounting                                                             ………        33
                       the ibiden group’        s material balance (input and output)                       ………        35
                       environmental data for individual plants and group companies – compliance management ………        36
              social contribution                 ……………………………………………………………………………… 40
                       philosophy for social contribution and promotional structure ……… 40
                       protecting the global environment                            ……… 41
                       fostering the next generation／
                       contributing to social welfare and local communities         ……… 43
                       disaster relief activities／encouraging volunteerism          ……… 44
              social responsibility for our products ……………………………………………………………………………… 46
                       quality management that supports customers-first values                             ………         46

              corporate responsibility goal summary ……………………………………………………………………………… 48
              corporate information                  ………………………………………………………………………………                                                  50
              gri index table                        ………………………………………………………………………………                                                  53
                                                                          corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd.   1



53889312409.indd   1                                                                                                                2012/10/23   17:56:53

    t op m essag e



           working toward becoming a company that
           enjoys continuous growth and is trusted by
           both the local and international communities.


    ibiden co., ltd. was established in 1 9 1 2 as ibigawa electric power co., ltd. to promote the local
    economy. since its inception, we have been growing and developing hand in hand with the local com-
    munity. in november 2012, we will celebrate our 100th anniversary.
       over the 100 years of the company’   s history, the operating environment has changed drastically. in
    these circumstances, we have tirelessly mastered our innovative technologies and pursued product
    development by answering the needs of the time. today, we conduct a global business focused on
    electronics and ceramics, contributing to the creation of an affluent society.
       we will continue to move forward consistently and grow for the next 100 years, as we strive to
    strengthen our corporate structure to become a company that is trusted by both the local and inter-
    national communities.

                                                                           president & ceo


    consolidated medium-term management plan and implementation of csr management
    the aim of the global ibi-techno 100 plan, our medium-term management plan, is to establish a struc-
    ture that achieves“sustainable growth”and“stable profitability”during the next 100 years, starting from
    the 100th anniversary.“implementing csr management”is clearly specified as one of the key pillars
    of activities underpinning the activities of this plan. to continue to move forward consistently after
    100 years, we are striving for increased trust and management transparency.
       in fiscal year 2011, we made changes in the“ibiden group charter of behavior,”which is shared
    within the group to implement csr management, and thoroughly discussed our role in each field,
    sharing our values concerning goals. in fiscal year 2012, we will make efforts in a way that enables
    each department to manage activities separately to achieve goals.

    risk response promotion from a global perspective
    in fiscal year 2011, we were struck by the large-scale natural disasters of the great east japan
    earthquake and heavy flooding in thailand. at a global level, these events caused serious damage to
    the business world, including the disruption of supply chains. though the ibiden group suffered little
    direct damage from both disasters, there was significant impact on the electronics and automobile
    markets in terms of the procurement of raw materials and parts. moreover, our customers suffered
    serious damage. the company managed to minimize the impact on production by quickly
    implementing procedures for authorizing substitute products. furthermore, since we responded to
    requests for emergency assistance from customers to the utmost extent, we received words of
    appreciation from many customers.
       learning from the disasters we had experienced, we launched efforts to secure multiple supply
    chains and establish global production bases in response to the request from our main customers for
    the establishment of a bcp (business continuity plan) to handle any natural disaster in the future.

    building trust through communication
    to be a trusted partner in the international community, we need to initiate and maintain dialogues
    with our stakeholders and undertake actions by working closely with them beyond the confines of our
    group. the ibiden group continues its proactive disclosure of information regarding its financial
    condition, products and csr and promotes transparent management practices in an attempt to help
    stakeholders gain a greater understanding of how the group is run and decisions are made.
       we hope you will get to know the group’   s range of undertakings discussed in this report, and we
    welcome your feedback and opinions.

                                                            corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd.   2



53889312409.indd   2                                                                                                  2012/10/23   17:56:54

    e ditorial po l i cy

    the ibiden 2011 corporate social responsibility report, covering mainly the environmental and social aspects of the
    ibiden group, is published to inform stakeholders about the ibiden group’        s csr activities in an easy-to-understand
    format. in recognition of the fact that csr is closely linked to our corporate management, this report focuses on the key
    themes based on matters of interest to our stakeholders and our four themes―internal control, human resource man-
    agement, environmental management, and social contribution—including in“implement csr management”which is
    one of the pillars of our medium-term management plan. this report contains detailed information for our stakeholders
    on the group’  s policies and measures with regard to each theme and task.

     period covered
    this report focuses primarily on activities during fiscal year 2011 (april 1, 2011 to march 31, 2012), but also includes details of
    selected ongoing initiatives and more recent activities.


     date of publication
    september 2012 (previous report: november 2011, next report: september 2013)


     process of determining reporting items
    based on the ibiden group charter of behavior, working groups comprised of directors of various sections work to identify the
    management tasks for the group as well as themes that the ibiden group should tackle. furthermore, we carefully consider the
    concerns of our stakeholders and determine which items the company should include in its report. the means of communication
    with our stakeholders include direct communication in the form of requests and demands from our customers, the industry, and
    local communities, feedback from external evaluation organizations such as sri (socially responsible investment), and feedback
    on the csr report.
        these issues and items are divided into groups based on topics centered on four themes (internal control, human resource
    management, environment management, and social contribution) of our“implementation of csr management,”which is one of
    the pillars of our consolidated medium-term management plan. this csr report is published after undergoing the above-men-
    tioned process to select reporting items and is based on the company’    s disclosure rules. it has also been approved by the
    disclosure committee.


     coverage
    as a rule, the contents of this report relate to ibiden co., ltd. (“we”/“ibiden”/“the company”) and domestic and overseas
    companies belonging to the ibiden group. parts of this report that do not relate to the ibiden group (“the group”) are speci-
    fied on an individual basis. selected environment data are only applicable to ibiden’  s domestic premises. such data are marked
    as“ibiden domestic premises”and include ibiden co., ltd. and selected domestic group companies. environmental performance
    date for the group’  s operations centers on main production bases as bellow:
           ・domestic premises…ogaki plant, ogaki central plant, aoyanagi plant, gama plant, ogaki kita plant, godo plant, kinuura
                                    plant and including some domestic group which are covered by ibiden’     s management system.
           ・domestic group companies…ibiden jushi co., ltd.(“jushi”), ibiden bussan co., ltd.(“bussan”)
           ・overseas group companies…ibiden electronics (beijing) co., ltd.[“ieb”] , ibiden philippines, inc. [“ipi”], ibiden hun-
                                            gary kft.[“ihu”], ibiden dpf france s.a.s.[“idfs”]
           ・since the range of environmental performance data for the group’   s operations has been increased, starting in the fiscal
             year under review, disclosure figures have been modified retroactively for the past fiscal years.
           ・the benchmarks for the basic unit of the production volume are ibiden’    s domestic premises, ibiden jushi, ibiden bus-
             san, ieb, ipi, ihu and idfs, which are the main production bases.
           ・although ibiden electronics malaysia (iem) is being operated, it is not included in the calculation of the environmental
             performance data since it is still in a start-up phase.


     guidelines used as reference
    iso26000:2010 guidance on social responsibility
    sustainability reporting guidelines (third edition), global reporting initiative (gri)
    environmental reporting guidelines (fiscal year 2012 version), ministry of the environment
    environmental accounting guidelines (fiscal year 2005 version), ministry of the environment
    note: gri guideline comparison table can be found at the end of the report.


     supplementary information regarding the contents
    this report is intended for the stakeholders who are highly interested in csr. the contents of the report
    consist of our stakeholders’interests, the items for which they have great expectations or demands, and
    the matters for which the group recognizes its responsibility.


     disclosure of csr information
    the ibiden group’ s csr report is published on our website. we will update social and environmental in-
    formation in an appropriate manner.
        furthermore, our website serves as a venue to disclose in a timely manner a wide range of informa-
    tion such as financial information including the group’s business report and its consolidated financial
    statements as well as nonfinancial information such as various policies and management indicators con-
    cerning csr.

        website          http://www.ibiden.com/csr/                       corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd.   3



53889312409.indd   3                                                                                                                2012/10/23   17:56:54

                    s csr management
    the ibiden group’



    corpor ate philo so p hy


                               our motto                           ibiden way
                                integrity
                               harmony                  we respect humanity and nature
                               positivity
                                                                                                                 our virtues
                                                            respect for               harmony
                                                             humanity                with nature


                                        customers                                                           pursuit of
                                          first                                                           “ibi-techno”
                                                            corporate philosophy
                                                          we respect humanity and nature
                                                    we create new values together with customers
                                                    we contribute to constant social advancement



                                                                                                     direct
                                                challenge                                          observation
                                                                          teamwork

                                                                                                                 our principles

                                                            employee’s code of conduct



    the power that has enabled ibiden“to overcome many adversities with all our employees and to continue to
    exist,”and“the wisdom and vitality that have achieved dramatic growth in recent years”—
    these have persisted throughout ibiden’   s long history of nearly 100 years.
    the systematization that carries this on, transcending borders, is the“ibiden way.”
       while respecting people and the global environment, we create new value together with our customers.
    further, the hearts of our employees throughout the entire group are united in our efforts to contribute to
    sustained development of society.


    con soli d ated m ed i um-ter m m a n a g e me n t pl a n

    we will implement“global ibi-techno 100 plan”
    and establish a business structure that achieves sustainable growth as well as
    stable profitability.
    at the ibiden group, we continue to propose new value to our
    customers based on ibi-techno philosophy of“creating new tech-
    nology by fusing and combining our own innovative core
    technologies.”
       in accordance with“global ibi-techno 100 plan”as our consoli-
    dated medium-term management plan, we are making ibi-techno
    evolve yet further, establishing“ibiden innovative business model,”
    and making efforts intended to further augment our competitive
    strengths. in addition, by practicing management grounded in corpo-
    rate social responsibility, the group intends to achieve a continuing
                                                                                                                                                  strengthen and
    existence and to contribute to the development of society.                                                                               rebuild our core business
                                                                                                                                                 competitiveness
    three pillars of our activities
    ①strengthen and rebuild our core business competitiveness                                                                        cultivate our
                                                                                                                                  new third business
      ・ we will steer our business toward future growing markets.                                                                  after electronics
                                                                                                                                    and ceramics
      ・ we will strengthen global competitiveness.
    ②cultivate our new third business after electronics and ceramics
                                                                                                                         implement csr
    ③implement csr management                                                                                             management
     ・ we will make efforts improve management reliability and trans-
        parency.

                                                                                     corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd.                        4



53889312409.indd   4                                                                                                                                             2012/10/23   17:56:56

    cs r p o l i cy and sc o p e o f ac tiv it y

    all csr activities at the ibiden group are based on our corporate philosophy of“respecting humanity and na-
    ture,”“creating new values together with customers,”and“contributing to constant social advancement.”we
    pursue activities that enhance the reliability and transparency of management as well as strive to flourish as a
    going concern and contribute to social advancement.
        the direction and the ideal of our csr activities are shared throughout the entire group and presented as
    the ibiden group charter of behavior, which takes into account our role as a global corporation and reflects
    requests and demands from our stakeholders including our major customers around the world.

    ibiden group charter of behavior (july. 2011)

                   article 1: compliance with laws, regulations, and ethics
                   we comply with laws, regulations and ethical requirements of the countries and regions where its busi-
                   ness operations are based. we work against corruption in all its forms, and carry out open and fair
                   corporate activities with the intention of becoming a company that enjoys the confidence of the inter-
                   national community. we also protect and properly manage personal and customer data and other
                   types of information.
                   article 2: development together with stakeholders
                   we develop together with our stakeholders, so we enhance the transparency of management and
                   build a trustworthy relationship through communication. we also actively engage in community-based
                   activities that contribute to society as a good corporate citizen.
                   article 3: providing customer delight
                   we provide customer delight, so we have a good understanding of social trends, future needs and de-
                   velop. we provide safe and secure products and services to maximize our customer’   s satisfaction by
                   growing ibi-techno.
                   article 4: management based on global standards
                   we manage our group based on global standards. we respect human rights and other international
                   norms of behavior. also, we respect culture and customs in each country or region concerned when
                   carrying out our corporate activity.
                   article 5: harmony with nature
                   we harmonize with nature in all areas of our corporate activities. we manage to develop technologies
                   to achieve good balance between the environment and business, and we provide environmentally
                   friendly products and services by promoting energy and resource conservation activities.
                   article 6: attractive and vibrant company
                   we aim to become an attractive and vibrant company on the basis of fair, equitable and result oriented
                   employee evaluation personnel system. we aim to have a safe and comfortable working environment.
                   we create a rewarding corporate culture that the employee can respect for each diversity, and fully ex-
                   ercise their skills and abilities.


    ibiden group charter of behavior and corporate governance
    we recognize that the entire company including the management must participate in the effort if we are to
    fully realize the spirit of the ibiden group charter of behavior. the management also understands that it
    should lead by example to ensure that these efforts take place thoroughly throughout the company as well as
    among our group companies, and to encourage our suppliers to participate. furthermore, we pay continuous
    attention to the voices of people both inside and outside the company and have put in place an effective cor-
    porate structure. should an incident occur that violates the charter, the management will have in place a
    system to solve problems, which will communicate its position, investigate the cause and implement a preven-
    tion of recurrence. moreover, we will communicate accurately and in a timely manner the information
    regarding the incident including accountability. finally, after authority and responsibility are clarified, severe
    consequences will be imposed.

    managing activities related to the ibiden group charter of behavior
    in july 2011, to implement csr management based on our corporate philosophy the“ibiden way,”we re-
    vised the ibiden group charter of behavior to reflect our role as a global corporation as well as requests and
    demands of our stakeholders: iso26000, global compact, eicc code of conduct, keidanren charter of cor-
    porate behavior (as a member of keidanren: japanese business federation), etc. while taking into account
    international standards, working groups have discussed and identified the ideal that the entire group should
    pursue, and then turned it into a form of written communication listing items to be implemented. this written
    communication then became a part of each division’    s policy and dictated the activities to be promoted. the
                                              s policy has allowed us to manage the level of progress of the activi-
    process of making it part of each division’
                                                                                s operations.
    ties related to the ibiden group charter of behavior as part of the division’

                        charter of behavior               medium-term targets                          action plans
                        (goals for the group)

                                                                           corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd.   5



53889312409.indd    5                                                                                                                2012/10/23   17:56:56

    csr policy
    the group strives to contribute to social advancement while achieving continuing existence by implementing
                                           s csr management has been developed along four themes: internal
    csr management. the vision of the group’
    control, human resource management, environment management, and social contribution. we believe that
    working from these four viewpoints will allow us to build on our relationship based on trust with our stake-
    holders by further expanding activities in a wide range of areas.


      ＜csr policy＞
      we aim to enhance our corporate value
      ・by raising awareness of the need for ibiden to act responsibly and honestly in the interest of sustainable
          operations
      ・by fulfilling our responsibilities in a well-balanced manner from an economic, environmental and social
          standpoint
      ・by working in partnership with all of our stakeholders.

                                                        employees

                                customers                                           suppliers
                                                     human resource
                                                      management


                       shareholders/                  internal control                          local
                         investors                                                           communities
                                       environmental                 social
                                        management                 contribution




                                                    global environment             <conceptual diagram of csr management>


    based on our four themes of internal control (such as corporate governance, compliance and risk manage-
    ment), human resource management, environmental management, and social contribution, we will implement
    activities in a wide range of areas and build a trustworthy relationship with all stakeholders.


    framework for csr promotion
    the company set up csr promotion division in april 2006 as the division responsible for the promotion of
    csr activities.
         we also designated a management person in charge of the promotion in each division who performs du-
    ties such as promoting csr activities and compliance, supervising the implementation of compliance, hosting
    educational sessions for the members of the division, and reporting of compliance violations within the divi-
    sion as well as the follow-up on improvements.
         we also convene a conference for management persons responsible for csr promotion four times a year.
    during the conference, the participants confirm the company-wide promotion items and their progress as well
    as share anecdotal examples of promotional activities at their workplace or within the group companies.
         furthermore, we have designated september as csr month and encourage each and every employee to
    increase his or her awareness of csr by broadcasting messages from executives and increasing the number of
    educational activities related to compliance.



                                                                  corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd.   6



53889312409.indd   6                                                                                                        2012/10/23   17:56:57

    dia l og ue and c o o p era tio n wit h s t a k e h o l d e r s

    since its operations began as a hydroelectric power generation              ■example of communication
    business that provided electricity to the community, the ibiden             stakeholders        example of communication
    group has won the support of all residents in the community                               labor and management
    as well as many other people.                                               employees     committee
                                                                                              health and safety committee
         we continue to look for opportunities to communicate with                            improvement of customer
    our stakeholders to thoroughly understand the expectations                  customers     satisfaction
                                                                                              code of conduct audit
    and demands that they have concerning the group.
                                                                                              purchasing policy briefings
         in fiscal year 2011, we recorded progress particularly in our                        safety training session for
    effort to promote csr activities across our entire supply chain             suppliers     suppliers
                                                                                              implementation of csr survey
    including material buyers, temporary staffing agencies, and sub-                          and audit
    contractors.                                                                              risk communication
         we strongly believe that, if we are to continue developing             local         regular exchanges with commu-
                                                                                communities   nity associations
    and cultivating a relationship based on trust, it is essential that                       social contribution activities
    we continue to reflect in our business activities the stakehold-                          general shareholders’meeting
                                                                                shareholders/ investor briefings
    ers’expectations and demands expressed during our
                                                                                investors     response to research and
    communications.                                                                           evaluation organizations




                   safety & health promotion meeting for contractors   community risk communication (ogaki plant)


    e xternal c o r po r ate ev a lua tio n

    in recent years, attention has increasingly focused on socially responsible investment (sri), referring to corpo-
    rate investment from a social perspective, taking into account considerations such as the environment and
    social contribution rather than concentrating exclusively on profitability and other corporate and financial tar-
    gets.
         having been evaluated by an sri evaluation organization, we have been selected for inclusion in the dow
                                                                                                 s sri index.
    jones sustainability indexes (djsi world, djsi asia pacific), ethibel excellence, morningstar’
    furthermore, ibiden was selected for“global 100 most sustainable corporations in the world,”announced
    at the world economic forum in the fiscal year 2011.
     (as of june 2012).




                                                                        corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd.   7



53889312409.indd    7                                                                                                             2012/10/23   17:56:57

    assessm ent by thir d -p a r ty o r g a n iz a t io n s a n d o u r ac t i o n s

    undergoing sustainable management assessment
    in order to realize and maintain csr management, it is essential not only to conduct internal evaluations and
    audits but also to assess our activities from an objective viewpoint. to this end, the company undergoes an
    external assessment every two years and strives to improve on the credibility of the csr activities it promotes.
         in march 2012, we thus underwent the“sustainable management assessment”(sma) which was conduct-
    ed by a nonprofit organization (npo), the sustainable management forum of japan (smf), to evaluate the
    level of our activities pertaining to areas such as management, environment and social development while
    working jointly with the organization to verify the evidence (proof and/or rationale) of these activities. as the
    smf takes into account the requirements of iso 26000, we believe that the assessment conducted on the
           s activities provides an evaluation based on international guidelines.
    company’
         we were given an average evaluation of 7 7.5% as a result of this assessment, which indicated that we
    have yet to satisfy all sustainable management standards. by category, we were given“meets the sustainable
    level”in the area of management such as compliance and risk-management,“approaching the sustainable lev-
    el”in the area of environment and“almost meets the sustainable level”in the area of social development
    including human resource management. the evaluation also provided suggestions for improvements.
         the smf gave an excellent evaluation on environmental topics such as chemical control, use of natural en-
    ergy, and waste reduction. it was pointed out, however, that to continue to decrease our environmental load
    it is necessary to expand the range of control beyond the group to gain a complete understanding of the cur-
    rent status. promotion of biodiversity protection activities also will benefit from further development. in the
    area of social development, the smf indicated that the company needed to continue to thoroughly inform its
    employees throughout the group of the policies and visions it is pursuing in matters such as human resources.
    it was also suggested that the company should present more effectively its intended course of action in local
    communities to its employees.
         having considered the above-mentioned suggestions, we have already included them in our policies for fis-
    cal year 2012 in the area of environment. this report also outlines more clearly various action policies in areas
    such as social contribution.


    corporate evaluation by external organizations and third-party audit
    the company conducts gap analyses between“what it should be”and the results of external corporate eval-
    uations. our csr promotion division analyzes the data obtained from important survey questions and
    discusses the course of action with departments involved to identify elements that are lacking at the compa-
    ny. furthermore, if it is possible to improve upon these elements during the next fiscal year, each department
    develops strategies within its action policy.
         the results of csr-related audits conducted by third-party organizations similarly undergo the process of
                                                                                                           s
    gap analysis to establish the difference between the global industry-required standards and the company’
    current efforts, and to identify issues that need to be addressed. we take to heart the suggested issues put
    forward during these audits and strive to improve upon them by analyzing the causes and implementing cor-
    rective actions as well as preventative measures. furthermore, we are working toward creating a system that
    meets the global standards by improving upon these issues. for fiscal year 2011, our focus was on developing fur-
    ther our human rights activities in asia by establishing rules and guidelines that clearly state items that require
    attention concerning human rights.




                                                                  corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd.   8



53889312409.indd   8                                                                                                        2012/10/23   17:56:57

    internal control

    our group defines corporate governance as a critical management issue for increasing corporate value
    through sustainable growth. the entire group is actively committed to improving corporate governance.



      basic approach to corporate governance

    (1) objective
    by strengthening our internal control functions through proactively developing“activities for advancing compli-
    ance and risk management”with an involvement of all officers and employees and by augmenting and
    strengthening the management-oversight functions of our board of directors and the audit functions of our au-
    ditors, we are creating a transparent corporate control system that can accommodate the reliance of our
    shareholders and society.


    (2) governance structure in our group
    to ensure the appropriateness and fairness of business conducted by the ibiden group companies, ibiden
    has suggested to the heads of the group companies a structure designed to advance compliance and risk
    management similar to its own. at group information exchange meetings, it keeps abreast of their actions ad-
    vocating compliance and risk management, their status of management and progress made to meet the
    targets mapped out in their plans for profit generation.


    (3) overview of corporate governance
    ibiden has elected to operate as a company with corporate auditors and a board of corporate auditors.
         the term of each director is limited to one year to clarify management accountability of each director,
    strengthen management practices and enhance the agility needed to implement optimal management practic-
    es in quick response to the changing business environment. an executive officer system has been introduced
    to allow swift managerial decision-making and accelerated business execution.
         the company has five corporate auditors, three of whom are outside corporate auditors with no conflict of
    interests with the company. corporate auditors participate in major meetings including those of the board of
    directors and the management conference to audit the business executed by the directors. in addition, full-
    time corporate auditors work in cooperation with the audit division, which is the internal auditing organ of
    the company, and accounting auditors to perform audits on ibiden and its group companies as required by
    law and other rules.
         executive officers and others submit reports at the request of the corporate auditors in compliance with
    the rules of the board of corporate auditors and the corporate auditors’auditing rules set forth by the
    board of corporate auditors. the company has also created an audit division (comprising six members),
    which is responsible for executing internal audits. the audit division conducts internal audits of the matters
    requested by the corporate auditors through discussion with them to ensure greater effectiveness of the audit
    structure of the group.
         the company will maintain the current structure by“clarifying the directors’management responsibility,”
   “making decisions quickly through the executive officer system”and“enhancing the effectiveness of the audit-
    ing system.”


    (4) relationships with stakeholders and timely disclosure
    aware of its mission to increase corporate value and meet shareholder expectations, the group understands
    that it must fulfill its responsibilities with respect to employees, local residents, local communities, business
    partners, investors, and other non-shareholding stakeholders. for this reason, we have instituted the disclo-
    sure regulations to facilitate proper assessments of our group. our aim is to help stakeholders understand
    the group and to win their broad consent to reconciling their interests of different stakeholder groups. with
    the decision of the disclosure committee, consisting chiefly of the president and the director responsible for
    finance sections, management information is disclosed in a fair, timely, and appropriate manner.

                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd.   9



53889312409.indd   9                                                                                                       2012/10/23   17:56:57

      summary of the existing corporate governance systems

    summary of the existing system and reasons for the use of the existing system
    with regard to the operation of the board of directors, we have asked two outside directors to join and pro-
    vide their management advice in an effort to realize fair, highly transparent management. for the designation
    and determination of remuneration, we also have in place fair, transparent procedures. ibiden clarifies the di-
    rectors’management responsibility and strives to strengthen the management structure. the maximum
    number of directors is set at 18 (now 12), and a director’ s term of office is set at one year to respond to chang-
    es in the business environment and build an optimum, flexible management structure. furthermore, ibiden
    has introduced an executive officer system to facilitate speedy management decision-making and further ac-
    celeration of business operations. as for the decision-making by the board of directors and business
    operations by the president and ceo, they are audited by the board of auditors, and each auditor has the
    ability to take strict action.
    matters related to outside directors
    two outside directors are appointed to ensure their contribution to ibiden’         s appropriate corporate gover-
    nance as well as their advisory functions for the corporate code of conduct. they work in an appropriate
    manner to make necessary statements with regard to the agenda and discussion at the board of directors
    meetings, taking actions required to fulfill the above-mentioned objectives.
    measures to enhance auditors’functions
    auditors participate in major meetings, such as the board of directors and the management conference, and
    audit the execution of their duties. furthermore, in collaboration with the audit division, which is the internal
    auditing division, as well as accounting auditors, full-time auditors conduct audits for ibiden and group com-
    panies based on existing laws and provisions.
    description regarding the status of ensuring independent officers
    at ibiden, two outside directors (director toyoda and yonezawa) and three outside corporate auditors (au-
    ditor kuribayashi and kumagai and shiota) are appointed as independent officers. this is because ibiden has
    judged that they will contribute to the appropriate corporate governance and advice on the corporate code
    of conduct, and there is no conflict of interest with general shareholders. (please refer to“board of directors/
    organization”)
       in addition to the corporate governance structure described above, the company has set up a manage-
    ment conference to fortify its structure. composed of parties responsible for management decisions and
    business execution such as representative directors, directors, executive officers and managing officers, in ad-
    dition to full-time corporate auditors, the management conference is authorized to conduct advance
    deliberations on matters to be placed on the agenda of the board of directors and is authorized, under the
    company’    s rules on authorizations, to approve such items. it also deliberates and makes decisions on impor-
    tant matters including management of the progress made in yearly and monthly budgets and managerial
    issues.


      diagram of corporate governance system
                                                                                                                       shareholders meeting

                                appointment/removal                                                                             appointment/removal                                                       appointment/removal
                                                                                                                                                                 report
                                                                                                                                                         report/cooperation
           board of directors directors                                                                         board of corporate auditors                                                         accounting auditors
                                                                                                                      audit auditors                  approval of appointment/
                                                                 audit
             supervision                                                                                                                              removal and interpretation of
                                                                                                                                       direction      proper audit                                  direction


                                  discuss questions/             audit
                                  report
                                                             order                                                       risk management company-wide                                 compliance company-wide
             management conference
                                                                         csr promotion division




                                                                                                                              promotional committee                                     promotional committee
      representative directors (executive oﬃcer)        report
         standing auditors (executive oﬃcer)
                  executive oﬃcers                                                                                           executive oﬃcer in charge of                        executive oﬃcer in charge of compliance
                                                                                                                                  risk management                              (managing oﬃcer in charge of csr promotion)
                                                                                                                      (managing oﬃcer in charge of csr promotion)
             supervision
                                  discuss
                                  questions/
                                  report                                                                                        departments in charge of
                                                                                                                                 each risk management                                      compliance counter
                                                                                                  corporation




      president & ceo (direct management)
        executive oﬃcer of each business                                                                                                                                                 compliance committee*
          (division of executive authority)                                                                                                                                              reward and disciplinary committee*

                                               report            audit                                                                                                                   information security committee
                                                           auditor division                                                                                                              security and trade management committee
                                                                                                                                                                                         insider trade controlling framework
                                                                                                                                                                                         disclosure committee

     execution of operation/
                  supervision                                    audit                                     audit        order                                                    order                                             audit

                                                                 each business and function department ・each company in the group

                                                                                                                                                                            *established on an ad hoc basis when related issues arise

                                                                                                                                          corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 10




53889312409.indd     10                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2012/10/23   17:56:57

      compensation of directors and corporate auditors (fiscal year 2011)

    total remuneration of directors and corporate auditors by classification, total remuneration by type, and num-
    ber of directors and corporate auditors receiving remuneration.
                                      all directors             external directors only                    all auditors            external auditors only
           classification     number of recipients amount paid number of recipients amount paid number of recipients amount paid number of recipients amount paid
                                (persons) (millions of yen) (persons) (millions of yen) (persons) (millions of yen) (persons) (millions of yen)
       basic remuneration          12              365               2               23               4               71                2               15
              bonuses              10              121                -               -                -                  -             -                -
           stock options           12               50               2                6                -                  -             -                -
                   total                           536                               29                               71                                15

    1．the resolution setting the upper limit of remuneration for the directors at not more than 45 million yen per month was approved at the
      154th general shareholders’meeting held on june 22, 2007. of the total, the amount for outside director’    s accounts for 3 million yen or
      less, with the remaining 42 million yen or less paid to the other directors. compensation under stock option plans is set separately. salary
      for directors as company employees is also excluded from the figures.
    2．in addition to the remuneration and the compensation under stock option mentioned above in 1, at the 158th general shareholders’meet-
      ing held on june 22, 2011, the resolution was approved stipulating that directors, excluding the outside directors, are to receive as bonus
      equal to 0.5% of the consolidated net income for the fiscal year as well as 1.6% of the total amount of annual dividends for the applicable
      fiscal year. however, the maximum limit was also set at not more than ¥500 million by the resolution with amounts less than ¥1 million be-
      ing rounded down.
    3．the maximum limit of remuneration for corporate auditors was approved at not more than ¥6 million per month at the 145th general share-
      holders’meeting held on june 24, 1998.
    4．with regard to 121 million yen, the amount paid as the directors’bonus mentioned above, the payment was decided at the board of direc-
      tors meeting held on may 18, 2012.
    5．in addition to the amount paid mentioned above, 45 million yen has been paid to the two directors of the company who concurrently serve
      as the directors of the company’   s subsidiaries as basic remuneration during the current period in relation to the two subsidiaries con-
      cerned.




      risk management

    basic approach
    the ibiden group enables business continuity by analyzing various risks surrounding management, accurately
    handling losses of business resources that have a great negative impact on the ease of our business opera-
    tions, ensuring the safety of our shareholders, customers and officers, and reducing and preventing losses of
    business resources.

    action plan
    1．we devote efforts to maintaining the safety and health of employees and business partners and to con-
      serving operating resources.
    2．we conduct ourselves so as not to impinge upon the safety, health, or profits of our shareholders, custom-
      ers, and local and international society.
    3．in cases where risk is manifested, we work to achieve prompt response and recovery through responsible
      action.
    4．we reflect social demands related to risk in our risk management.
    5．we provide required information in order to avoid or reduce possible damage caused by misunderstand-
      ing and a lack of understanding.

    structure for advancing risk management
    the group has established risk management regulations to create a risk management structure, emergency
    countermeasure and evaluation of its performance. we also created the risk management company-wide
    promotional committee, which is tasked with improving risk management. the risk management company-
    wide promotional committee is responsible for considering and deciding on general risk management issues.
    it also examines and reports the progress of actions to address major risks. to execute the policy endorsed
    by this committee, a risk owner is appointed to carry out activities geared to ibiden’ s circumstances and
    business model, as well as with those of its group firms.




                                                                                          corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 11




53889312409.indd    11                                                                                                                                       2012/10/23   17:56:57

    diagram of risk management promotion system
                                           risk management company-wide promotional committee
                        (directors, executive oﬃcers, standing auditors, unit managers and manager of audit division)
           function               deliberation and decision making on risk management, etc.

                                                                                                                                  secretariat
                                                                                                                            csr promotion division
                   audit division


               business                                                             financial aﬀairs      development and
                                                                                                                                     energy supply
              opportunity               systems risks       legal aﬀairs risks        and funding       intellectual property
                 risks                                                                   risks                   risks                    risks

            business sections          information system   legal aﬀairs sections   finance sections    intellectual                 energy control
                                       sections                                                         property sections            sections

                                       human resource
                                                                                    environmental
            overseas risks                and labor          disaster risks                                                              new risks
                                            risks                                        risks

                                                            environment &
            overseas enterprises and   human resources                              environment &                                    related sections
                                                            safety and general
            general aﬀair sections     sections             aﬀairs sections         safety sections



                                   business sections, functional sections, domestic and overseas group companies
                                                                                                             *a promotion manager appointed at each section


    advancing risk management
    based on its basic policy and risk management regulations, the group is ac-
    tively developing risk management promotion activities by, for example, setting
    up a department responsible for each risk category, strengthening the ac-
    countability structure, and offering seminars and workshops geared toward
    officers and employees. the managing officer of the csr promotion division
    who also acts as the officer responsible for risk management conducts these
    risk-management promotion activities and reports to the risk management
    company-wide promotional committee (secretariat: csr promotion division)
                                                                                                                     twice a year holding of the risk management
    headed by the president and ceo.                                                                                 companywide promotion committee meeting

    should the internal audit or other mechanisms discover business actions that may create risk of loss, the offi-
    cer responsible for the strategic corporate planning operation is immediately tasked to understand the
    details of the said risk as well as the scope of its potential loss. he then gives instructions on swift and sys-
    tematic measures and attempts to prevent the loss from occurring. furthermore, in case of a large-scale
    accident or a disaster, he immediately sets up the headquarters to thoroughly understand the situation, imple-
    ment first responses, and prevent further loss to minimize the loss.

    addressing risks
    the ibiden group undertakes risk management activities so that we may continue to reliably conduct our
    business operations. we regularly detect and assess risks to reduce risks in important areas: operational divi-
    sions are working on the risks related to strengthening our business competitive edge, while functional
    divisions are addressing the risks bringing serious repercussions to the company’    s business. in fiscal year
    2011, focusing on the risk of legal violation as a companywide risk, we built a legal compliance system and
    implemented measures for boosting legal compliance management to next level at each functional division.
    as for measures to be taken when disasters such as earthquakes occur, we believe that lifesaving comes first,
    followed by the early supply of products to customers.
        to prepare for earthquakes, we not only check each building’  s resistance to earthquakes but also deter-
    mine the items, matters and divisions for actions to be taken in regard to damage prevention, secondary
    damage, and anticipation. furthermore, to prepare for supply risks that may occur during earthquakes and
    other disasters, we have verified the current situation at the company as well as our suppliers and begun im-
    plementing measures to reduce risk in the order of risk priority.

                                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 12




53889312409.indd   12                                                                                                                                         2012/10/23   17:56:57

      compliance

    basic policy
    by achieving thoroughgoing commitment to“compliance with domestic and international laws, our articles of
    incorporation, internal regulations and corporate ethics (hereinafter called compliance)”and through open
    and fair corporate activities, we aim to be a company that international society relies on.
        the ibiden group adopted the ibiden standards for employee behavior in december 1998 and the com-
    pliance promotion regulations in august 2003, to facilitate its compliance activities. we continue to increase
    awareness of compliance, adopting a management approach that seeks to earn the trust and respect of all
    stakeholders.

    structure for promoting compliance program
    the group vigorously pursues further development of its compliance promotion activities (streamlining of the
    compliance-related rules and regulations, verifying the status of implementation of compliance activities, pro-
    motion activities, workshops and other functions geared toward the officers and employees) based on our
    basic policy and compliance promotion regulations, the“ibiden standards for employee behavior,”which
    sets the standards for compliance implementation. the executive officer in charge of the csr promotion divi-
    sion as well as compliance implements promotion activities then reports to the compliance company-wide
    promotional committee (secretariat: csr promotion division) chaired by the president and ceo.
        in addition to the formal channel of reporting, the group has established a compliance consultation service
    to facilitate reporting when an officer or employee discovers a violation of compliance. through this service,
    officers and employees may report violations nominally to employees in charge of the compliance consulta-
    tion service or anonymously to outside experts. the latter ensures that the rights of the whistleblower are
    protected by protecting his or her privacy and prohibiting prejudicial treatment. the executive officer in
    charge of compliance strives to educate officers and employees through training to achieve thorough under-
    standing of the compliance consultation system. should an incident related to compliance occur, the
    compliance committee chaired by an executive officer is called and discussions take place on appropriate ac-
    tions to address the situation as well as preventative measures for future incidents. serious incidents such as
    those highly relevant to directors are reported to the board of directors.



    diagram of compliance promotion system

                                                                         board of directors


      board of corporate auditor                                                                president & ceo




       compliance company-wide promotional committee chaired by president & ceo                             compliance committee

                ① company-wide promotion                                                         ① implementing and planning a countermeasure
     function




                                                                                     function




                ② overall control                                                                ② deliberation on non-compliance case
                ③ reporting and reviewing                                                        ③ consultation with the reward and disciplinary committee
                                                                                                 ④ consultation with the board of director


           compliance promotional committee at each plant
                     chaired by plant manager                                                     executive oﬃcer in charge of compliance
                ① promotion at a plant level
     function




                ② ediﬁcation and education at a plant
                ③ addressing the improvement in non-compliance case                   compliance consultation service (compliance counter)



                                                                           all employees



                                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 13




53889312409.indd   13                                                                                                                                2012/10/23   17:56:57

    compliance company-wide promotional committee
    in august 2003, the compliance company-wide promotional committee headed by the president was formed
    in an effort to bolster compliance-related awareness across the group. the committee carries out group-wide,
    pro-compliance activities and reviews such undertakings. compliance-related policies and plans decided by
    the committee are communicated to each plant, which in turn rolls out individual actions in accordance with
    them. all group companies both in japan and abroad have set up their own compliance organizations man-
    dated to formulate and conduct individual actions.

    standards for employee behavior
    the group has long since stepped up its commitment to compliance, fol-
    lowing the introduction of the ibiden standards for employee behavior -
    employees’code of conduct. as our overseas operations rapidly expand
    with the construction of plants in the philippines, china, france, and hun-
    gary, we must now ensure compliance with international rules as well as
    with laws and regulations prevailing in the countries where we do busi-
    ness. recognizing this, the group undertook a full review of its compliance
    program to improve the framework and revised the ibiden standards for
    employee behavior in fiscal year 2003.                                              we have established the ibiden
                                                                                        standards for employee behavior,
       at the group, all officers and employees are determined to respect the           which serve as compliance guide-
    standards for employee behavior and create a group of companies that                lines for officers and employees.
    are good corporate citizens in the eyes of the international community.

    revision to the standards for employee behavior
    the ibiden standards for employee behavior are continually evolving in light of the globalization of our ex-
    panding business operations. taking into consideration the expectations of our stakeholders, we add and
    revise provisions on worker rights with which we must comply as internal standards. we have also established
    the standards for employee behavior based on such international standards at our main production plants
    overseas, and we are making efforts to provide thorough education on human rights and ethics according to
    these standards.
        upon the revision of the ibiden group charter of behavior, in fiscal year 2011, ibiden reorganize the code
    of conduct so that employees who must comply with it can understand it more easily, and we continue our
    efforts to promote their compliance.

    compliance education
    the company runs a broad array of education programs including level-specific and workplace-specific train-
    ing designed to enhance employee awareness of the importance of compliance. these programs include
    group discussions on causes of violations of the employees’code of conduct and actions taken in response
    to the violations. they educate every single trainee in consciously deciding on the right action in a given situa-
    tion.
        we continually provide our own csr portal site on the intranet and ex-
    amples of compliance practices in our internal magazine and on the
    intranet as another way to improve staff awareness.
        in addition, we have invited outside instructors to educate manage-
    ment persons responsible for promotion including officers concerning
    compliance, risk management, and human right including harassment to
    be undertaken as an administrator. we also arranged e-learning educa-
    tion of the revision of the employees’code of conduct and approximately
    94% of all our employees took it in fiscal year 2011.                          csr workshop program is conducted
                                                                                       to deepen employees’understanding
                                                                                       of compliance through discussion.




                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 14




53889312409.indd   14                                                                                                     2012/10/23   17:56:58

    compliance by directors
    when establishing a compliance system, it is crucial that all executives and managers be at the forefront of
    the efforts. as september is csr month, executives and the management persons responsible for csr attend
    workshops by external instructors to gain a clear understanding of their role as managers.
        furthermore, executives must conduct themselves in accordance with the standards for employee behav-
    ior in both their personal and professional lives, as the standards include items relevant to individual executive
    such as regulations regarding competition as well as conflict of interest.

    whistleblowing system
    after learning of any suspected compliance violation in the group, employees are generally required to report
    it, to consult, and to take action using the chain of command between the superior and the subordinate. we
    have, however, established a compliance consultation service for quickly solving any problem that cannot be
    reported through the usual channels. the service is available not only to employees of ibiden group compa-
    nies but to all those working for the group. we provide three access channels to facilitate consultation: one
    inside the company, another at a lawyer’    s office, and the other at an outside organization.
         in fiscal year 2011, we provided consultations in 70 cases for the entire group in japan. although most of
    the consultations were related to the issues that could lead to issues related to potential harassment case
    and labor management, none of them significantly affected our business activities. moreover, at workplaces
    where problems were observed, seminars and other events are held individually to prevent recurrence. to
    discover and deal with problems as early as possible, we will continue our educational activities to enhance
    our reliability by offering a consultation service that can be safely used by those who seek consultation.
         in addition, we have set up a consultation service for our supplier in fiscal year 2011. we create an envi-
    ronment where we not only offer consultations internally but also gather valuable feedback on ibiden’         s
    compliance from our regular supplier.
         ibiden has no record of legal violations, such as corruption and information leakage, which have a major
    impact on business activities.

    self-check
    to clarify compliance issues at plants, a self-check on morality, security, and respect for human rights is con-
    ducted once a year on a plant-by-plant basis. any problem identified in this process will be addressed through
    remedial activities specific to the plant.
       employees holding managerial posts are required to submit themselves to annual self-testing to measure
    their understanding of the ibiden standards for employee behavior and their state of compliance with the
    standards, for identification of topics that are not fully understood. starting from the fiscal year 2011, the self-
    check for not only employees holding managerial posts but also regular employees have been carried out to
    recognize challenges at the individual level and little understood topics. case studies illustrating compliance-
    related issues that many test-takers failed to answer correctly are published to increase their understanding.




                                                                  corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 15




53889312409.indd   15                                                                                                      2012/10/23   17:56:58

      csr management in the supply chain

    to earn the trust of international community while operating business globally, both the group and the entire
    supply chain must responsibly take actions that respond to social demands. we believe that a sustainable
    growth of the entire supply chain as well as a higher corporate value will be realized through promotion of
    csr activities based on the basic policy of the ibiden group.


    basic purchasing policy
    1．we comply with laws, regulations and societal norms, and strive to build relationships of trust and mutual
          cooperation with suppliers.
    2．we provide suppliers opportunity at a fair deal.
    3．we continue to fulfill our social responsibilities including human rights and environmental protection
          through purchasing activities.




    ibiden group supplier csr guidelines
    ibiden began disclosing requests to suppliers, based on its basic purchasing policies,
    in fiscal year 2008 and held a briefing session for 100 suppliers in fiscal year 2009,
    confirming the status of their measures. this enabled us to confirm the gap in mea-
    sures among the suppliers and recognize the necessity of management, which has led
    to more specific improvements in the supply chain.
         in fiscal year 2 0 1 1, ibiden published ibiden group supplier csr guidelines fol-
    lowing the changes in the ibiden group charter of behavior. these guidelines
    provide our suppliers with items desired for the entire supply chain by our customers,
    the industry and the international community as well as the group. the items are di-
    vided into sub-categories according to themes such as labor, health and safety, environment protection, ethics
    and fair business practices. these guidelines also allow us to thoroughly understand the risks from several
    viewpoints such as worksite safety, respect for and dignified treatment of employees, and the consideration
                                           given to the environment, which in turn allows us to make improvements.
                                              we also invited our major suppliers after the publication of the guide-
                                           lines to our briefing session to share with them, in addition to the group
                                           itself, specific challenges ahead as they play an important supporting role
                                           in matters such as material supply, subcontracting, and procuring of tem-
                                           porary staff. moreover, we conducted supplier surveys as well as site
                                           visits in keeping with the content of the guidelines to provide support to
                                           identify issues and make improvements. eleven individuals are now cur-
                                           rently participating in the auditor training program within the company,
    which will give them the ability to audit activities at our suppliers’facilities.
         in fiscal year 2012, we will be expanding the range of target suppliers and host a briefing session for all
    subcontractors and temporary staffing agencies. we will also continue to verify the status of the measures at
    their facilities. meanwhile, our internal auditors will further develop their skills by performing audits at the sup-
    pliers’facilities and undergoing external audits.
         furthermore, these activities are not limited to japan, since we are developing similar guidelines for the


                                                                    corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 16




53889312409.indd   16                                                                                                        2012/10/23   17:56:58

                s overseas locations. for instance, in fiscal year 2011 we began the process of controlling our
    ibiden group’
    supply chain for the manufacturing locations in the philippines, malaysia and china. moreover, in the philip-
    pines and malaysia we have prepared their guidelines and performed assessments while some suppliers
    underwent audits in china. we will continue to expand the scope of our efforts, and these activities will be
                                                                                         s overseas locations
    implemented at not only our japanese group companies but also all of the ibiden group’
    in fiscal year 2012.


    ibiden suppliers’compliance counter
    the company promotes compliance (rules and regulations, ethical compliance) by establishing the ibiden
    group charter of behavior and the ibiden standards for employee behavior. as part of our continued efforts,
    we also set up a compliance counter for our suppliers in fiscal year 2011 to which suppliers can report any
    compliance problem while dealing with the company. similar to the compliance counter for our internal em-
    ployees, the information will be handled with the utmost care for privacy and the supplier will never suffer
    prejudicial treatment for contacting the counter.


    responding to the issue of conflict minerals
    illegal mining of resources in conflict areas (the democratic republic of the congo and its surrounding conflict
    regions) has become a major international issue as it abets human rights violations. the ibiden group is very
    much concerned about the issue of conflict minerals and is addressing the situation with a sense of social re-
    sponsibility toward the products it offers.
         our“supplier csr guidelines”clearly state that the suppliers should refrain from illegal mining in conflict
    areas as well as procuring resources that may support human rights violations. the company tries its best to
    avoid contributing to illegal operations and human rights violations by not utilizing minerals illegally mined in
    conflict areas. furthermore, we will conduct reasonable investigations into the mineral supply routes and dis-
    close the findings in good faith.
         in fiscal year 2011, we shared with our suppliers the issues involving conflict minerals as well as the com-
        s approach during a briefing session. we also conducted supplier surveys to verify their supply routes.
    pany’
    furthermore, we conducted visits at some of our suppliers’facilities and other related refining companies to
    explain the extent of the effort as well as the supply routes and their traceability (history of materials, parts,
    and process).




                                                                  corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 17




53889312409.indd   17                                                                                                      2012/10/23   17:56:58

    human resource management



    in line with the values on“respect for humanity”included in the ibiden way, we are committed to respect-
    ing the creativity and personality of each and every employee and to value a corporate culture that allows its
    diverse human resources to fully display their knowledge and capabilities.



      philosophy for human resource management and promotional structure
                                                                                       ○ d i a g ra m o f i p m act i v i ti e s
    basic approach
                                                                                         management of business                       management capability

    employees are the driving force that enables us to run our business                 ● ability to construct a business

                                                                                        ●
                                                                                                                                    <underlying capability for all management>
                                                                                                                                    ● capability to plan and operate the business
                                                                                         ability to become no.1 in customer
    and provide the public with valued service. we aim to create vibrant                  satisfaction
                                                                                        ● ability to generate ongoing profits
                                                                                                                                    ● capability to manage

                                                                                                                                    ● operating the management system


    workplaces in which each individual employee derives a sense of sat-
    isfaction and achievement from gaining a thorough understanding of
                                                                                                                           management
               s management policies and business strategies, and
    the company’                                                                                                            of business

    from having a role to play that enables each employee to contribute
                                                                                                                         management
    to both the company and society.                                                                                      capability
                                                                                                         management                          total
         as one of the measures to achieve this goal, we have also intro-                                    of                           productive
                                                                                                         technology                      management
    duced personnel systems and training programs to enable each
    employee to display his or her creativity and versatile personality.
                                                                                        management of technology                    total productive management
                                                                                        ● ability to understand market and         ● san-hozen activity
                                                                                          customer needs                               (integrating quality maintenance, autonomous
                                                                                                                                       maintenance, and planned maintenance)
                                                                                        ●
                                                                                         ability to achieve the development goals
                                                                                                                                    ● ability to launch design qcd
                                                                                        ● cross-industrial integration ability
                                                                                                                                    ● qcd competitiveness during stable

    human resource management through ipm activities                                    ● use of experts                              mass production


    ipm stands for ibiden profit management, and ipm activities advance and integrate the four ibi-techno capa-
    bilities: management of business, management of technology, total productive management, and
    management capability. through these activities, we will create our own unique management techniques and
    grow sales and profits as well as personnel. in fiscal year 2011, we introduced an e-learning system, develop-
    ing an environment in which employees are motivated to take skill development training voluntarily.
         forming an organization-wide working group through ipm activities, we made efforts to offer thorough self-
    development content, which consists of educational materials reflecting the needs of each operational
    division. we developed approximately 130 courses over the past year. by offering self-development courses in
    addition to existing level-specific or ability-based group training programs, we will focus strongly on cultivating
    a corporate culture that further promotes self-learning.


    constitution of employees[ibiden]                             number of employee by business segment [ibiden group]
                                          fy 2009   fy 2010

        number of employees     persons    3,226     3,385                                                 other
                                                                                                           12.1%
         managerial positions   persons    286       317
                                                                                        other
                   officers     persons     17        16                               operation
                                                                                                 total number of
                                                                                        13.2%
                                                                                                employees in the electronics
              average age        years     34.9      35.4          construction
                                                                                                  ibiden group    operation
                                                                   operation 4.1%
           length of service     years     11.8      12.3                                                         11,374                        44.8%
                                                                   housing materials                                  people
      number of workers who                                        operation 2.9%
                                persons     43        60
        left the company

                                                                   ceramics operation 22.9%


                                                                  note: not included are 5,495 temporary employees.
                                                                           starting from the consolidated fiscal year under review, con-
                                                                        tract employees, who were included as part of the personnel at
                                                                        some consolidated subsidiaries, are now counted as temporary
                                                                        employees. furthermore, dispatched workers are counted as tem-
                                                                        porary employees. in the consolidated fiscal year under review,
                                                                        compared with the conventional method, the number of person-
                                                                        nel decreased by 1,962, and the number of temporary employees
                                                                        increased by 4,690.

                                                                  corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 18




53889312409.indd   18                                                                                                                                                  2012/10/23     17:56:59

      respect for human rights

    respect for worker rights
    the ibiden group clearly defines its basic policy to support and respect the protection of human rights, as
    well as to avoid involvement in any violation of human rights. the ibiden standards for employee behavior
    spells out such policy, stipulating that officers and employees respect the basic principles and rights of labor
    and take actions that follow the common sense and rules of society while complying with the employment-re-
    lated laws of each country such as the labor standards law and labor regulations.

    human rights education
    to ensure respect for human rights, the group offers education on fair employment and human rights, particu-
    larly to labor relations managers as well as managers and staff members in charge of recruitment interviews,
    calling their attention to the prevention of human-rights violations. ibiden also distributes the ibiden stan-
    dards for employee behavior and example booklets, a collection of violation examples, to all employees at
    the time of hiring. in our new employee training or education programs offered at the time of hiring, we edu-
    cate our employees to promote the understanding of the ibiden standards for employee behavior, including
    dealing with human rights issues, as well as to ensure that the standards are reflected in their actions.

    assessment
    for the group to make advances in human rights initiatives, the cooperation of the entities comprising the en-
    tire supply chain beyond the group is indispensable. in our letter addressed to business partners, we
    specifically request that labor-related human rights be observed, including bans on child labor and forced labor.
    in addition, we confirm the state of compliance by business partners by sending out periodic questionnaires.
        in fiscal year 2011, we conducted a survey based on the csr guidelines, targeting the plants and group
    companies in japan, and provided them with guidance, aiming to enhance their understanding. furthermore,
    we held a survey among business partners regarding specific items to be tackled in terms of labor and human
    rights in the csr guidelines and their management. we audited some suppliers in japan and provided guid-
    ance to contractors and temporary help agencies. as a result of the audit in fiscal year 2011, we found no
    cases of major violations that could lead to the violation of worker rights.



      employment and development of human resources

    employment of global human resources
    the ibiden group, celebrating its 100th anniversary in 2012, is an international corporation with 34 overseas
    locations in 17 countries in north america, asia and europe. with the next 100 years in mind and armed with
   “ibiden’  s unique business model,”which rivals any other on the international stage, we will continue to strive
    to further strengthen our competitiveness. to this end, obtaining highly diverse human resource is crucial. as
    more than 75% of our sales were made outside of japan in fiscal year 2011, it is essential that we hire and
    nurture employees who can see things from a global perspective and manage people at overseas locations
    while absorbing different cultures. in terms of our hiring practices, we have defined the desired candidate pro-
    file and are actively pursuing foreign students who are studying in japan. we are also hiring more staff at
    overseas locations who demonstrate the skills and experience to become executive candidates in the future.
    as a result, we hired a record-high 14 foreign students in april 2012.

    development of global human resources
    first, we have adopted the concept of creating a global human resource pool,
    which will allow us to form, from a medium- to long-term perspective, a group
    of employees that can succeed on the global stage. motivated young employ-
    ees who fit the global human resource profile will be selected to participate in
    language training programs overseas and work with local manufacturing staff at
    overseas production locations so that they can experience different cultures.
    our plan is to set up a system in which these employees can further hone their
    specialist skills and management abilities after their return and eventually be as-           language training
    signed overseas again as global executives. we expect to examine and propose
    this new system in fiscal year 2012 and then begin implementing it in fiscal year 2013. we provide cross-cultur-
    al programs for employees who are visiting or are assigned to overseas locations, and we make company-wide
    efforts to upgrade their practical language skills. in fiscal year 2011, in addition to english, we began offering
    language training in korean and other foreign languages. we also focus on nurturing the core staff of our over-
    seas entities by inviting them to participate in training programs in japan.
                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 19




53889312409.indd   19                                                                                                     2012/10/23   17:56:59

    fair and equitable employee evaluation
    the company has in place a results-oriented target management assessment system. challenge goals closely
    related to the company’   s business results are first established, and the results as well as the process for
    reaching those results are then evaluated fairly and equitably. finally, individual results are directly reflected in
    their remunerations. furthermore, our aim is that better“communication between the superior and the subor-
    dinate”will be encouraged through the process of goal-setting, interim interviews and evaluation interviews.
    the target management system also provides ample opportunities for“professional development”for the
    subordinate.



      respecting diverse work styles

    along with the progress in globalization and diversification of values, ibiden strives to realize a working envi-
    ronment and culture that allow a wide variety of employees to demonstrate their unique abilities and find
    their life and work meaningful.

    supporting work life balance
    the company considers it part of its social responsibility to create an environment in which children, our fu-
    ture leaders, can grow up healthy and safe. to this end, we actively encourage work-life balance (harmony
    between work and private life) by, for example, helping our employees to achieve a balance between work
    and child rearing.
       the company also put in place its action plan in accordance with the act for measures to support the de-
    velopment of the next generation. as a result, in fiscal year 2011 two male employees took parental leave.
    also in fiscal year 2011, we promoted company-wide measures aimed at shortening overtime hours. to cre-
    ate a working environment that allows employees to work positively and vigorously, we will review and
    consider a discretionary labor system and other working arrangements, and further encourage employees to
    take annual paid leave.

    promotion of female advancement
    the company began its promotion activities for female advancement in fiscal year
    2010. for phase 1, including both 2010 and 2011, we focused on raising awareness
    and introducing the program. we also actively increased the number of females hired.
       in fiscal year 2011, we conducted interviews with both female employees and ex-
    ecutives to clarify issues at work and formulated and implemented specific solutions.
    actively participating in cross-industry meet-ups also helped encourage career devel-
    opment and increase motivation. we are also planning to offer consultation interviews
    to those who are returning to work after a parental leave to alleviate any anxiety,
    which will allow for a smooth transition. we will continue to support the proactive ac-
    tions of female employees through“growing corporate culture,”   “career development                 ibiden’ s parenting
    and appointments”and“supporting work-life balance”, so that women with abilities                    handbook to support
                                                                                                        balancing work and
    and motivation can be active at all stages of their lives.                                          childbirth/child rearing

    ◆three core activity areas
   【growing corporate culture】
    we hold various events and training sessions to raise awareness throughout the company and communicate
    these activities through our company bulletin.
   【career development and appointments】
    we introduce educational programs to further enhance the ability of ambitious women and develop and in-
    troduce ideal role models for our female employees.
   【supporting work-life balance】
    we implement childcare leave, short-term working hours and other programs to support a work-life balance
    so that both men and women can continue to work while they raise children. we introduce these programs
    by issuing a childrearing handbook.




                                                                   corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 20




53889312409.indd   20                                                                                                       2012/10/23   17:56:59

    employment of persons with disabilities
    there are a healthy number of active employees with disabilities at the company. the number and percent-
    age of employees with disabilities in fiscal year 2011 was 41 ones and 1.87%, respectively. we will continue
    to respect the philosophy of normalization and maintain a working environment in which employees with dis-
    abilities can fully demonstrate their abilities.


    post-retirement reemployment system
    we instituted a post-retirement reemployment system in fiscal 2004 to enable our most experienced employ-
    ees to display their capabilities as part of our valued workforce.

                   （persons）                                               number of employees with disabilities       （%）                                                                  maternity and child-care leave
                                                                                                                                                                           （persons）
                                                                           percentage of employees with disabilities                                                                        nursing care leave
                                                                                                                       2.5
                                                                                                                             (percentage of employees with disabilities)


                                                             60                                                                                                                 25
                   (number of employees with disabilities)




                                                             50                          1.98      1.94                                                                                                           20
                                                                    1.93      1.89                            1.87     2                                                        20            19
                                                                                          40         40        41                                                                      17                                    17
                                                             40                 39                                                                                                                      16
                                                                     35                                                1.5                                                      15
                                                             30
                                                                                                                       1                                                        10
                                                             20

                                                                                                                       0.5                                                       5
                                                             10
                                                                                                                                                                                                   2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                                                                                                                                                                          0                0         0
                                                              0                                                        0                                                         0
                                                                    2007      2008      2009       2010      2011 （fy）                                                                 2007   2008      2009      2010       2011 （fy）

                                                                  trends in the number of employees                                                                               track record of the leave programs
                                                                       with disabilities [ibiden]                                                                                              [ibiden]



      labor and management cooperation to create a worker-friendly workplace

    through a relationship of mutual trust, both the management and workers of ibiden work together to create
    a workplace that is friendly for all employees. the labor and management gathering and the labor and man-
    agement committee are held every month to deliberate on ways to improve the working environment so that
    employees can safely work toward the goals of their workplace. in fiscal year 2011, negotiations were held
    between labor and management with a focus on cooperation-related themes, such as working-hour manage-
    ment, creation of a worker-friendly workplace and improvement in personnel systems.


    working hour management
    in an effort to raise employees’awareness of working-hour management, we have them use the attendance
    system to check their data, which is designed to ensure accurate working hours, and promote the reduction
    of overtime work. our goal is to cut the amount of overtime work by boosting operational efficiency, which
    can be achieved by making employees aware of the accurate working hours and through better communica-
    tion between superiors and subordinates, allowing them to review and rethink the work process and system.


    creating a worker-friendly workplace
    as a part of our 100th anniversary project, we are planning specifically to improve our physical work environ-
    ment. our activities to promote female advancement included interviews with female employees as well as
    executives to raise awareness. we have also further developed support programs for those who are on pa-
    rental leave in an effort to support the work-life balance.

                                                                                                                                                                              corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 21




53889312409.indd       21                                                                                                                                                                                                                2012/10/23   17:56:59

      occupational health and safety - basic policy

    we conduct the health and safety activity done with all concerned people under ibiden way, and aim to
    harmonize“health and safety”and“operation”with the fundamental rule to minimize the risk that may affect
                                                         s operations.
    the life and health of person participating to ibiden’



      occupational health and safety policy

    1.	we will identify the sources of risks associated with each process in our corporate activities and take
        steps to prevent labor accidents and illnesses. we will strive to reduce the risks and to maintain and en-
        hance the physical and mental health of our employees.
    2.	we will provide a good working environment that allows all employees to work vigorously without anxiety.
    3.	we will comply with laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety and with other recog-
        nized requirements.
    4.	we will operate an occupational health and safety management system to ensure that every employee en-
        gages in occupational health and safety activities and to make continued improvements to attain our
        occupational health and safety goal.
    5.	we will ensure that every employee is aware of our occupational health and safety policy, using occupa-
        tional health and safety cards and other means to raise their awareness of occupational health and safety
        and encourage proactive behavior.
    6.	we make this policy public and we make it available any time when requested.
        we also make this policy available on our website. http://www.ibiden.com/



      organization chart of occupational health and safety management
          (promotion organization)                                                                             (action organization)                             (audit organization)

          company-wide environmental
                                                                                                                   president & ceo
                                                                                       top management




          health and safety committee*

                                                                                                                                                                internal audit committee

           company-wide zero accident committee                                                                   director in charge


          plant health and safety promotion meeting
                                                                                                            occupational health and safety oﬃcer

          plant health and safety committee
                                                                                                                     plant manager
          general health and safety manager
               (plant manager)                                                                             occupational health and safety manager

                                                                                                                  division manager
                safety manager
                health manager                                                                                      group manager
          hygiene engineering health manager                                                                        team manager
            (appointed employee)                                 operation chief                                      team leader
                                                              (appointed employee)

          occupational health physician                       other statutory managers
                                                                                                                                                                                        name of
                                                              (appointed employee)                                    section chief                                                 …
                                                                                                                                                                                        meeting


          division zero accident committee                                                                      safety circle leader                                                … organization


                                                                                                                                                                                        statutory
          safety promotion circle meeting                                                                               employee                                                    …
                                                                                                                                                                                        organization
         * company-wide environmental health and safety committee: the committee discusses the occupational health and safety policy and company-wide goals for occupational health and safety, and
           committee members include the chairperson of the labor union.

                                                                                                            corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 22




53889312409.indd    22                                                                                                                                                                       2012/10/23   17:56:59

      measures for safety
    in fiscal year 2011, with“reduction of occupational accidents and potential incidents and improvement to the
    working environment,”    “legal compliance”and“reduction in mental illnesses and life-style related diseases”
    as the three pillars of our activities, we implemented occupational health and safety programs for the entire
    ibiden group. to be specific, we shifted our activities from accident prevention to hazard prevention by im-
    proving the level of risk management. our activities centered on the following guidelines: focused
    implementation of activities to prevent major disasters/recurrent accidents, strict legal compliance through
    the regular education of legally qualified people in laws and regulations as well as through the audits of oper-
    ations and management of laws and regulations, and participation of all members based on the“health100
    plan,”an initiative for improving health vigorously.
        while the group’   s and domestic group companies’occupational accident occurrence rates are below the
    national manufacturer average, unfortunately one fatal accident occurred in may 2011. in response to this in-
    cident, the entire ibiden group overhauled and corrected risks that could cause accidents. on site, we
    confirmed the effectiveness of safety management measures to deal with what had been identified as highly
    critical in a risk assessment. for areas that had been recognized as hazards at plants, we implemented correc-
    tive actions promptly and completely.
        in addition, based on the results of the occupational health and safety risk assessment and the occurrence
    of work-related accidents in the previous fiscal years, we specified that falling/flying objects, getting caught
    between/under objects and collisions with objects were company-wide risks and managed the progress of
    reduction in applicable risks. we fully implemented the planned risk reduction measures. before implementing
    risk assessment, we conducted educational training, offering risk assessment study meetings and practice
    training sessions, to help participants acquire accurate risk assessment knowledge and methods for extracting
    risks. furthermore, we have revitalized workplace safety circle activities and established activities to point
    out and correct risks through safety patrols led by the head of each workplace, aiming to reduce risks on a
    routine basis. in fiscal year 2012, we will expand the scope of our safety activities, targeting subcontractors
    working on premises, while further improving the level of our activities.

                           ibiden group (japan)           ibiden          number of occupational accidents
                          manufacturing industry          all industry    [ibiden and domestic group companies]
      2.00                                                                                        ibiden
                                                                                                                       domestic group
                                                                                                                         companies
      1.80
      1.60                                                                   fatalities             1（0）                     0（0）
      1.40                                                                  accidents
      1.20                                                                  requiring               8（4）                     5（4）
                                                                              leave
      1.00
      0.80                                                                 accidents
                                                                          not requiring             2（8）                     3（3）
      0.60                                                                    leave
      0.40
                                                                          minor injuries         12（12）                      7（2）
      0.20
         0                                                                *	the figures in parentheses represent the numbers of occupational
                    2008         2009              2010            2011      accidents in fiscal year 2010
                     occupational accident frequency rate*
                   [ibiden and domestic group companies]
        *	number of occupational injuries (be equal or more than ac-
          cidents requiring leave) for every million cumulative actual
          working hour


      managing employee health
    health 100 plan
    to create a working environment that allows employees to work positive-
    ly and vigorously, it is also important to help them improve their physical
    and mental health. since fiscal year 2008, ibiden has been dedicated to
    the improvement of employee health through the 5-year“health100 plan.”
        in fiscal year 2011, we held a walking rally using pedometers, reflected
    in the slogan“let’   s go and see the beautiful sky of the world, and let’ s
    walk around the globe (40,000 km) with all employee participants.”the
    rally was held at our plants and group companies with the aim of further
    enhancing health awareness. furthermore, we ensure that all employees
    use the e-health check system, which allows each employee to check the         health check activities at workplace
    degree of his or her mental and physical stress, enabling occupational
    health physicians to conduct organizational analysis, detect problems and make proposals. in these ways, we
    are making further improvements to identify and deal with any mental health issues as rapidly as possible. in
    addition to these measures, we conduct mental health training for each tier, targeting the heads and manage-
    ment of companies, as we strive to create a workplace where all employees work positively and vigorously.

                                                                            corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 23




53889312409.indd    23                                                                                                                 2012/10/23   17:56:59

    environmental management



    keeping environmental preservation in business in mind, we will thoroughly eliminate the loss of resources
    and energy in order to contribute to social development efficiently. we will dedicate ourselves to environmen-
    tal protection by offering technologies and products designed to reduce the environmental burden.

      environmental management - basic policy
    we conduct the environmental load reduction activity with all concerned people under ibiden way, aim“har-
    mony with nature”by reducing the bad effect on global environment generated in our business operation, and
    fulfill the role as enduring company.

      environmental policy
    1.	we contribute to protecting the global environmental by minimizing the environmental burden in every
        process of our company’ s activities. we especially value water and its benefits to the earth.
    2.	we continuously promote positive and effective use of clean energy by developing and improving eco-
        technology that saves energy and resources.
    3.	we comply with environmental rules and regulations of domestic and international countries. we set our
        own standards and advance our environmental management capabilities.
    4.	we encourage all employees to share the purpose and goals of environmental protection and devote
        themselves to environmental protection activities. we accomplish this by utilizing an environmental man-
        agement system.
    5.	we publicize this environmental policy by distributing a policy carrying card to promote awareness of en-
        vironmental protection and to inspire each employee to act voluntarily.
    6.	we make this policy public and we make it available any time when requested.
    	we also make this policy available on our website. http://www.ibiden.com/

      organization chart of environmental management
    grounded in values that emphasize harmony with nature, we are working group-wide to promote environ-
    mental management. with the president as the head of the companywide environmental management
    system, we have established the workplace-based environment committee led by the head of each work-
    place to facilitate environmental management.
       (consultative/promotion organization)                      (action organization)                         (audit/regulation organization)

                                                                                                                           internal audit
                                               top management




                                                                    president & ceo
                                                                                                                             committee
                                                                   director in charge of
                                                                environmental management
             company-wide                                                                                            pollution control supervisor
        environmental committee
                                                                                                                         (plant manager)
                                                                environmental management

                                                                                                                                                                *appointing manager necessary for plants
            company-wide                                               representative
        consultative organization                                                                                     pollution control manager
                                                                      plant manager                                  (appointed employee)


                                                                                                                      waste control manager
         plant environment committee                                                                                 (appointed employee)
                                                                environmental representative
                                                                                                                    waste control facilities engineering
                                                                                                                    manager (appointed employee)
         plant consultative organization                            division manager
                                                                                                                    special management industrial
                                                                                                                    waste management representative
       *operating with organization of                                                                              (appointed employee)
        section meeting necessary for                                group manager
        each plants                                                  team manager                                    other statutory managers
                                                                                                                     (appointed employees)
                                                                      team leader


                                                                        employee                                   waste control operator
                                                                         member
                                                                                                                 pollution causing facilities manager
                                                                                                                appointed in the presence of the relevant facilities

    other than the above, we held a monthly“training camp”under the theme of ecological losses, promoting ac-
    tivities designed to reduce overall environmental losses. moreover, we hold meetings organized by
    environmental protection promoters who are designated by each operational division while the entire group
    shares information on environmental protection in the global conference on the environment.

                                                                                    corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 24




53889312409.indd   24                                                                                                                                         2012/10/23                                   17:56:59

      management system certification status

    domestic group companies certified with iso 14001 and ohsas 18001
    we are pursuing iso14001 certification with an in-house system as the means to continuously improve the
    environmental footprint caused by the group’   s activities, products and services.
       together with ibiden electronics industries co., ltd., ibiden graphite co., ltd., ibitech co., ltd. and
    ibiden engineering co., ltd. (water treatment division), which are directly linked to our business activities, we
    obtained iso14001 certification in january 2000 and ohsas18001 certification in march 2003*. in june 2009,
    ibiden jushi co., ltd. obtained iso14001 certification, and the godo plant acquired iso14001 and ohsas18001
    certifications and a certificate of compliance at the regular audit in january. since fiscal year 2011, we have
    been operating a management system that integrates both iso 14001 and ohsas 18001 certifications.
       each workplace has an assigned full-time head (plant manager), and the environmental committee and the
    health and safety committee are led by the head of each workplace based on the plan-do-check-act (pdca)
    cycle of activities. a meeting consisting of heads of workplaces is held monthly where information is ex-
    changed on inter-workplace activities, with a goal to increase the level of all ibiden workplaces.

    *	ohsas18001: a standard for occupational health and safety management systems. ohsas stands for occupational health and
      safety assessment.


                        acquisition status of the iso14001 and ohsas18001 certifications for domestic group companies
     name of the                                   ibiden engineering
                                  ibiden*                             ibiden greentec ibiden bussan        ibiden industries ibiden jushi
     group company                                 (head office)
     iso14001cert.                jan. 2000        oct. 2002          mar. 2004         may. 2005          sep. 2005         jun. 2009
     ohsas18001cert.              mar. 2003                               planning                         aug. 2012             planning

    *	ibiden domestic premises (ogaki, ogaki central, aoyanagi, gama, ogaki-kita, kinuura, godo) and including some domestic
      group(ibiden electronics industries, ibiden engineering(water treatment section), ibiden graphite, ibitech, ibiden kenso).




    overseas group companies certified with iso 14001 and ohsas 18001
    in our group, not only domestic group companies but also overseas group companies are working to obtain
    iso 14001 and ohsas 18001 certification.
       in 2007, ibiden electronics beijing co., ltd. renewed its certification through an extended exam process
    with expanded coverage to its second plant in january, followed by ibiden hungary’         s certification in febru-
    ary.
       in the future, we will continue with efforts to obtain this certification for overseas group companies and to
    strengthen our environmental management. in fiscal year 2012, we will work on building a management sys-
    tem at ibiden electronics malaysia with the aim of obtaining both iso 14001 and ohsas 18001 certifications.

                        acquisition status of the iso14001 and ohsas18001 certifications for overseas group companies
     name of the group                ibiden philip- ibiden electronics ibiden electronics                                  ibiden electronics
                                                                                           ibiden hungary ibiden dpf france
     company                          pines          (beijing)          (shanghai)                                           (malaysia)
     iso14001cert.                    jun. 2003        jul. 2003         feb. 2005         feb. 2007
                                                                                                                         planning
     ohsas18001cert.                  planning         mar. 2007                     planning




      environment and occupational health and safety-related laws and regulations

    ibiden focuses on compliance with laws and regulations related to the environment and occupational health
    and safety.
        we aimed at achieving zero violations in fiscal year 2011, but received an administrative correction once
    and guidance four times, in terms of occupational health and safety, from the concerned government minis-
    tries in japan. we have promptly improved the compliance issues pointed out by the ministries through the
    workplace health and safety committee.



                                                                               corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 25




53889312409.indd   25                                                                                                                    2012/10/23   17:57:00

      ibiden has no record of penalties or sanctions related to violations of environmental and occupational
    health and safety laws and regulations.


      guidelines for environmental activities

    in fiscal year 2011, we implemented environmental protection measures with“combat against global warm-
    ing,” “effective use of resources,” “reduction of environmental risks”and“stable supply of electricity/steam/
    cold water”as the pillars of the activities. in fiscal year 2012, we will make“energy loss reduction,”  “effective
    use of resources,”   “reduction of environmental risks”and“stable supply of electricity/steam/cold water”the
    pillars of the activities, making company-wide efforts toward environmental protection as the ibiden group. in
    particular, we will promote the following activities.
    1.	we will introduce innovative technology to conserve energy when constructing a new plant or introducing
        a new line while reducing energy loss by adopting the technology to the existing lines.
    2.	we will establish a technology/system that allows energy consumption to fluctuate according to fluctua-
        tions in production volume while lowering the energy unit load by promoting bic activities.
    3.	we will promote activities to improve yield rates of materials, increase productivity through loss reduction
        and conserve energy/resources by means of the 3r activity.
    4.	we will enhance chemical control, pollution prevention management and disaster prevention management
        in order to reduce environmental risks.
    5.	we will efficiently supply electricity/steam/cold water by taking the status of their use into account.

    aiming to thoroughly eliminate the loss of resources and energy in business, we place emphasis on energy
    loss as one of the themes for company-wide loss reduction efforts. we extract, analyze and classify energy
    loss caused by demand sides and supply sides, sharing information and confirming progress in the“training
    camp”addressing the topic of ecological losses.
    *1 bic activities: best in class—activities conforming to the latest cases
    *2 3r: abbreviation for“reduce, reuse and recycle”


      coping with climate change issues

    through private power generation activities to supply clean energy as well as energy conservation efforts in
    manufacturing activities, we are working to reduce direct greenhouse gas emissions. to upgrade our private
    power generation systems, we are boosting our hydroelectric power generation capacity, improving thermal
    power generation efficiency, and promoting fuel conversion. with regard to energy conservation efforts in
    manufacturing activities, we are accelerating the improvement of energy conservation practices throughout
    the company by strengthening companywide co2 reduction activities, while all manufacturing divisions man-
    age the basic unit of energy consumption and set specific targets for each division.

    measures to supply clean energy
    the ibiden group can trace its history back to a scheme aimed at building a hydroelectric power plant up-
    stream on the ibigawa river to supply power and attract industry and thereby help revitalize the nearby city
    of ogaki. the group was established under the name ibigawa electric company in 1912, but over time began
    to utilize electricity to evolve into an electrochemical company. we have continued to expand our business
    since then, including areas such as carbides, carbon, building materials, ceramic products and electronic prod-
    ucts, as we have grown and developed hand in hand with local communities.




                          hirose power plant      kawakami power plant             higashi-yokoyama power plant
                        power output: 8,000kw     power output: 4,100kw               power output: 13,600kw


                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 26




53889312409.indd   26                                                                                                     2012/10/23   17:57:00

    ibiden owns three hydroelectric power plants in the up-                                private generated electricity with
                                                                                           hydroelectric generation system
                                                                                                                                         private generated electricity with
                                                                                                                                         co-generation system
    stream section of ibigawa river in gifu prefecture. hydraulic         （1,000mwh）
                                                                                             purchased electricity                       private generated electricity with
                                                                                                                                         solar power generation system
    power generation uses the potential energy of water to cre-               600
                                                                                     major repair works for                              repair works for hirose
    ate clean energy without greenhouse gas emissions.                               higashi-yokoyama power plant                        power plant
                                                                                       0.06                                                                  0.69
    we introduced a co-generation system in 1992 to use clean                 500
                                                                                       260
                                                                                                     repair works for kawakami power
                                                                                                                                           0.80
                                                                                                     plant and its water supply tunnel     186               217
    energy instead of purchased electric power, increasing our                                          0.81
                                                                              400
    clean energy supply. while generating power from turbines                                            146
                                                                                                                         0.76
                                                                                                                          97
    that operate by fuel combustion, this system also uses                    300
    waste heat to produce steam, which is then used in facto-                                                             108
                                                                                                                                           119
                                                                                                                                                             121
    ries. as a consequence, the system excels in energy efficiency.           200      122
                                                                                                         94


        in addition, we recently introduced large-scale solar pow-                                                        163              172
                                                                                                         152                                                 146
    er systems on the rooftop of our head office building in no-              100      109

    vember 2005 and in the ogaki central plant in march 2008.
    as for the fuels we use, we are moving away from petro-                      0
                                                                                       2007            2008             2009              2010              2011
    leum-based fuels, in favor of gas-based fuels, and made a                                                                            （ibiden domestic premises）
                                                                                          trend in electric power use
    shift from boiler fuel to gas-based fuel at the kinuura plant in
    fiscal year 2011.

    we are consistently trying to increase our use of natural energy such as hydroelectric power and solar power
    and improve the efficiency of a co-generation system with a high level of environmental performance. as a
    consequence, power we generated in-house supplied nearly 55% of the power we consumed in fiscal year
    2010. we have successfully reduced co2 emissions by approx. 91,000 t- co2 (for fiscal year 2011) from the
    quantity emitted to generate purchased electric power.




           hydroelectric power                  a co-generation system                    solar power generation
           three hydraulic power plants are     five co-generation systems operate        solar cell panels with a total rated gen-
           working in the upstream section of   at our plants.                            erating capacity of 647 kwh have been
           the ibigawa river.                                                             introduced on rooftop of our head office
                                                                                          building and at the ogaki central plant.




    ＜repair works on hydroelectric facilities＞
    we completed more than five years’repair works on our three hydro-
    electric power plants in higashi-yokoyama, hirose and kawakami in
    2012, which marked the 100th anniversary of our foundation. power
    output was improved by approximately 1 0% due to repair works on
    the water supply tunnel and the latest update of the generators. we
    will continue to take advantage of hydroelectric power as a clean energy.


                                                                                               inside power plant after repair work




                                                                      corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 27




53889312409.indd   27                                                                                                                                               2012/10/23   17:57:00

    energy conservation                                                                                         direct co₂ emissions (scope1)
                                                                                                                indirect co₂ emissions（scope2）
                                                                                                                co₂ emission unit load rate* performance
    we are accelerating the improvement of energy conser-                                                       co₂ emission unit load rate* plan

                                                                                （kt-co2e）                                                                  （rate）
    vation practices designed to lower the basic unit of ener-                          1,000
                                                                                                         100
    gy consumption in all divisions within the entire compa-                                       900                 97
                                                                                                                                    94                      100
                                                                                                         100                                     91
    ny, striving to strengthen the company-wide co 2                                               800                 93
                                                                                                                                    88
    reduction activities as well as our product-making system.                                     700                                           83         80




                                                                                 (co₂ emissions)
    each month, we hold a“training camp”where members                                              600                             569          576




                                                                                                                                                                  (unit load)
                                                                                                                                                            60
    from all divisions of the company take part in energy                                          500   458          452
                                                                                                                                   231          237
    conservation activities to combat global warming. the                                          400
                                                                                                                                                            40
                                                                                                         215          216
    manufacturing division and the related functional divi-                                        300

    sions meet to hold repeated discussions, create an activi-                                     200                                                      20
                                                                                                                                   338          339
                                                                                                   100   243          236
    ty plan, report on their progress, and disclose relevant
                                                                                                     0                                                      0
    cases to share information on improvements. with our                                                 2008         2009        2010         2011        （fy）

              s advice, we follow the pdca cycle to im-
    management’                                                                 co2 emission and co2 emission unit load rate
    prove energy conservation. starting from fiscal year 2012,                    (per production volume) [ibiden group]
    we have changed the name of preventing global warming
                                                                          *1: the above rate is calculated at the rate of 100 percent
   “training camps”to“environmental loss prevention train-                    of the result of fiscal year 2008.
    ing camp.”our goal is to reduce not only greenhouse                   *2: co 2 emissions show figures covering production-
                                                                              related locations in japan and overseas. with regard
    gas emissions but also overall environmental losses. in                   to the co2 emission factor at the time of calculation,
    fiscal year 2 0 1 1, we promoted targeted development                     we used the factor provided by the“list of calculation
    projects with a focus on energy-saving design, horizontal                 methods/emission factors in the calculation, report
                                                                              and publication system”of the ministry of the environ-
    deployment of energy conservation improvement and                         ment and the ministry of economy, trade and industry
    maintenance management as the three pillars. in fiscal                    in japan as well as by gas distribution companies.
    year 2 0 1 2, we will promote five activities including the
    energy-saving design of new plants and new lines.
         in our energy conservation activity, we convert energy consumption to co2 emission and evaluate energy
    consumption as well as co2 emission as our result. globally, we aim to improve energy conservation by 3%
    annually based on the co2 emissions unit load per production volume for fiscal year 2008. total co2 emis-
    sions in fiscal year 2011 were nearly flat, with a slight increase, as the production volume increased. nonethe-
    less, we successfully reduced the co2 emissions unit load by 17% per production volume from that in fiscal
    year 2008.
         (please refer to the graph“co2 emission and co2 emission unit load rate”.)
         we have established energy conservation management standards that are applicable to utility facilities op-
    erated and managed by ibiden. in energy control based on cost improvement through optimum manage-
    ment, the standards aim to“develop a foundation for energy control”and“increase the energy control level”
    through the implementation of actions related to energy usage streamlining. in fiscal year 2011, we aimed at
    building a system to prevent energy conservation efforts from regressing by increasing the rate of conformity
    to energy conservation standards and implementing energy conservation patrol/audits.


    details of energy conservation improvements in fiscal 2011
                        three-pillar initiatives                                                          details
     1. targeted development/energy-saving design        energy-saving design of new lines at three overseas plants
     2.	horizontal deployment of energy conservation development of items for company-wide horizontal deployment and items
         improvements                                 unique to each plant, theme improvement of energy conservation assessment
                                                         creation of energy maintenance management standards, review/adjust-
     3. maintenance management
                                                         ment of the standards
     co2 reduction through energy conservation activities 23,000t-co2*

    note: the above is an estimated amount obtained by converting the contents of improvement activities to co2 reductions.

                                                                         corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 28




53889312409.indd   28                                                                                                                                                       2012/10/23   17:57:00

      resource circulation

    resource circulating activities
    ibiden believes that it is an important responsibility of                                                             amount of solid waste
                                                                                                                          solid waste unit load rate* plan
    businesses to make effective use of the world’  s scarce re-                                                          solid waste unit load rate* performance

    sources and to take part in a global effort to conserve re-                                            （t）                                                      （rate）
                                                                                                        50,000
    sources. we promote the so-called 3r activity, which                                                         100             100          98           97
    consists of initiatives to reduce, reuse and recycle the                                                     100
                                                                                                                                                                     100
                                                                                                                                 99
    resources we consume. in doing so, we aim to improve                                                40,000
                                                                                                                                              92           93




                                                                              (amount of solid waste)
    the resources efficiency. since 2004, ibiden has been main-                                                                                                      80

    taining a zero-emission* status in terms of solid waste.                                            30,000




                                                                                                                                                                           (unit load)
       the ibiden group sets an index to control solid waste                                                                                                         60

    per production volume and has been taking action to im-                                             20,000
    plement such control. based on the production volume                                                                                                             40

    unit load for fiscal year 2008, we aim to improve it by 1%
                                                                                                        10,000                                                       20
    annually. while the production volume for fiscal year




                                                                                                                                                           40,400
                                                                                                                 28,900




                                                                                                                                 30,500




                                                                                                                                              37,200
    2011 increased from the previous year and the basic unit
    also increased from the previous year, we continued to                                                  0                                                        0
                                                                                                                 2008           2009         2010         2011      （fy）
    improve the material usage efficiency. we successfully re-              amount of solid waste and solid waste unit load rate
    duced solid waste per production volume by 7% com-                                        [ibiden group]
    pared from that in fiscal year 2008. (please refer to the
                                                                         *the above rate is calculated at the rate of 100 percent of
    graph“amount of solid waste and solid waste unit load
                                                                           the result of fiscal year 2008
    rate” .)

    *ibiden defines zero emission as a state in which no solid waste
      emitted from the production process is dumped in landfills.


    effective utilization and reduction of water resources (water conservation efforts)
    a large amount of water resources is used in the manu-                                                                water withdrawal
                                                                                                                          water withdrawal unit load rate* plan
    facturing process of electronic products, particularly for                                                            water withdrawal unit load rate* performance

    cleansing. ogaki city in gifu prefecture, where our do-                                        （1000m³）                                                         （rate）
                                                                                                        20,000
    mestic production bases are concentrated, is rich in un-                                                     100
                                                                                                                                 97
    derground water thanks to the ibigawa river system.                                                                                       94                     100
                                                                                                                 100                                       91
    however, water shortages are a serious problem in the                                               15,000                   91
    world today. based on the principle of so-called 3r activi-                                                                               74                     80
                                                                              (water withdrawal)




                                                                                                                                                           69
    ty—initiatives to reduce, reuse, and recycle resources—
                                                                                                                                                                           (unit load)


    the group carries out business activities by integrating                                                                                                         60
                                                                                                        10,000
    environmental technologies into manufacturing technolo-
                                                                                                                                                                     40
    gies, which has reduced the amount of industrial water
    use. to ensure the optimum control of wastewater and                                                 5,000
                                                                                                                                                                     20
    effluent and the facilitation of 3r activity for water re-
                                                                                                                                                           12,300
                                                                                                                 11,800




                                                                                                                                 11,500




                                                                                                                                              12,300




    sources, since fiscal year 2008 all concerned divisions
                                                                                                            0                                                        0
    have been meeting every month for a full day of discus-                                                      2008           2009         2010         2011      （fy）

    sion to confirm and report on the progress.                           water withdrawal and water withdrawal unit load rate
        the ibiden group sets a benchmark for managing the                                  [ibiden group]
    water withdrawal per production volume. our target is a
                                                                         *the above rate is calculated at the rate of 100 percent of
    3% improvement per year, with the basic unit of the pro-
                                                                           the result of fiscal year 2008
    duction volume (water withdrawal rate) in 2008 as the
    benchmark. in fiscal year 2011, we increased the use of
    recycled water (over 90%) within the industrial park at
    the beijing plant where the use of water resources was
    limited. the water withdrawal rate for fiscal year 2011
    achieved a 31% decrease compared to fiscal year 2008.
    we will continue our commitment to reducing the water
    withdrawal rate at all plants by means of water conserva-
    tion and recycling activities.
        (please refer to the graph“water withdrawal and wa-
    ter withdrawal unit load rate”.)
                                                                        corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 29




53889312409.indd   29                                                                                                                                                              2012/10/23   17:57:00

      appropriate chemical control

    responding to the regulations regarding chemical substances in products and manufacturing processes
    ibiden uses various chemical substances in the plating process. since chemical substances may cause pollu-
    tion and human health hazards, we practice rigorous control to prevent chemicals from causing harm. we are
    reducing the use of or even eliminating certain chemicals. we operate the chemical control committee as an
    internal organization, establishing a system to swiftly identify and respond to community demands related to
    chemical substances as shown in the reach system in europe. we have also operated the systems for chemi-
    cal control at overseas manufacturing bases.

    csr in the supply chain
    cooperation throughout the entire supply chain is essential to address environ-
    mental issues including chemical control as well as to push forward with csr.
    we issue green procurement guidelines to our major suppliers in an effort to
    check the status of our business partners’measures for environmental manage-
    ment and chemical control and conduct surveys on the status of chemical sub-
    stances that may cause a significant environmental burden.
       our chemical substance content information is managed by it systems that
    enable us to promptly respond to inquiries from our clients. having selected
                                                                                    ibiden group
    priority suppliers, we conduct on-site audits systematically.
                                                                                                                                                green procurement guidelines

    released and transferred amounts of prtr*1 -listed chemical substances
    with respect to domestic laws, to respond to the prtr law and the law concerning the examination and
    regulation of manufacture, etc. of chemical substances, we are enhancing in-house chemical control systems
    to build a management structure that prevents any omissions and errors.

    ●released and transferred amounts of prtr-listed chemical substances in fy 2011
     ■ 16 chemical substances subject to mandatory reporting to gifu and aichi prefecture
     ■ specified class i designated chemical substance: 2     ■ class i designated chemical substance: 14
     ■ total amounts released or transferred: approx. 439 t/ year
                                                                                                      amount discharged                                                              total
                                                                         quantity of (to air, public waterway, soil, or in-house landfill)                amount transferred
                                                                                                                                                                                    amount
                                                                          regulated
      id                                                                                                                                                                          discharged
                         regulated substance                             substance discharged to discharged to discharged to           buried in
                                                                                                                                                       transferred
                                                                                                                                                                    transferred
      no.                                                                                           public water- soil on facility  landfill off-site                offside as       and
                                                                            use* 2
                                                                                          air                                                         to sewerage
                                                                                                    way or river     grounds       facility grounds                waste material transferred
                                                                         （kg/year）     (kg/year)                                                        (kg/year)
                                                                                                      (kg/year)     (kg/year)         (kg/year)                      (kg/year)     (kg/year)
       20                    2-aminoethanol                                 252,123         2,521              0            0             0            259        208,736         211,516
       31          antimony and its compounds                                  1,193             0             0            0             0               0               4                4
       59                   ethylenediamine                                    1,158           0.4             0            0             0               0               0             0.4
       76                    ε-caprolactam                                   10,290              0             0            0             0               0              51              51
      232           n,n-dimethylformaldehyde                                   1,290             0             0            0             0               0               6                6
      237                     hydrargentum                                     4,567             0             0            0             0               0          4,567           4,567
      272    copper salts (water-soluble, except complex salts)             997,893              0          405             0             0            187           7,634           8,227
      308                           nickel                                     1,360             0             0            0             0               0               0                0
      309                 nickel compounds                                   19,817              0             0            0             0               0          8,297           8,297
      349                           phenol                                  609,850             26             0            0             0               0               0              26
      368                    tert-butylphenol                                20,543              0             0            0             0               0              21              21
      395 potassium persulfate water-soluble salt                           775,676              0             0            0             0               0       167,706         167,706
      405            boron and its compounds                                   3,393             0             0            0             0               0          3,393           3,393
      408    2-(2-[4-(1,1,3,3-tetram ethylbutyl)phenoxy]ethoxy)ethanol         3,293             0             0            0             0               0               0                0
      411                     formaldehyde                                  549,878         1,931              0            0             0               0        14,841           16,773
      412          manganese and its compounds                               18,811              0             0            0             0               0        18,811           18,811

   【surveyed】ibiden and ibiden group companies covered by ibiden’s environmental-management system
   【survey period】april 2011 through march 2012

    *1 prtr：pollutant release and transfer register
    *2 the data includes contained amounts in products, biodegraded treatment amount, and such.


                                                                                                               corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 30




53889312409.indd    30                                                                                                                                                                 2012/10/23   17:57:01

      understanding the influence on biodiversity

    initiated from the power of water, the group’  s business activities are blessed with the benefit of biodiversity
    such as maintaining a stable water supply. and our activities also have some impact in the area of biodiver-
    sity. just as we need to cope with the issues of global warming due to climate change, biodiversity conserva-
    tion is one of the most important tasks to tackle.
        aiming to contribute to constant social advancement, in line with the values stressing“harmony with na-
    ture,”ibiden will act responsibly as a global enterprise by working together with society.


    activities to create a society in harmony with nature for biodiversity protection and sustainable resource use
    focusing on the upstream areas along the ibigawa river, which are the roots of the ibiden group, we will
    contribute to protecting biodiversity and sustainable use of resources in the local community. we will achieve
    this by carrying out forest preservation activities to support the water sources and promoting social contribu-
    tion activities in collaboration with the local community.


    forest preservation activity areas
    in august 2008, ibiden signed an agreement on lively forest creation with the gifu prefectural government,
    the ibigawa town government and the ibi shizen kankyo rangers (a nonprofit organization). according to this
    agreement, we will plant trees, thin the forests and conduct improvement cutting in ibiden’         s forest higashi
    yokoyama forest in the higashi yokoyama district and ibiden’     s forest fujihashi forest in the tsurumi district
    over the next 10 years, in an effort to support sustainable reforestation activities in the future.
    → for details on forest preservation activities, please refer to“social contribution”on page 41.

    ＜target areas of forest preservation activities＞



                                                 ▶   toyama


                             ▶   ishikawa


                   ▶   fukui
                                                             ▶   nagano
                                                                                                         tokuyama
                                                                               ibi prefectural             dam                site preparation for
                                      ▶   gifu
                                                                                natural park                                  silvicultural project
                                                                                                                              ibiden’  s forest fujihashi
                                                                                                                              land area：37ha

              ▶   shiga
                                                                                                                  417
                                                 ▶   aichi

                       mie                                                                                              ibigawa river
                                                                                             hirose
                   ▶

                                                                          kawakami
                                                                          power plant      power plant


                                                                                                   303

                                                                                          higashi yokoyama
                                                                                                power plant


                                                                          the hydroelectric power is supplied                303

                                                                          to each of ibiden’s plants                        site preparation for
                                                                                                                            planting project
                                                                                                                            ibiden’ s forest higashi-
                                                                                                                            yokoyama
         in collaboration with the local community,                                                                         land area：4.31ha
         we held the nature study class in autumn
                                                                                        corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 31




53889312409.indd       31                                                                                                                        2012/10/23   17:57:01

      environmental contribution through products

    product life cycle assessment
    ibiden is promoting a design that takes into consideration safety/environmental rules and regulations, energy
    conservation and resource conservation from the initial stage of product development. in design reviews to
    examine product development/design, we have added product and process safety, environmental regula-
    tions/safety of materials used and energy conservation consciousness reflected in the production process as
    examination items. currently we are building a system to confirm whether products developed and produced
    by ibiden are environmentally friendly. we plan to issue guidelines for environmentally friendly guidelines at
    the end of fiscal 2012 and start using them from fiscal year 2013.


    diesel particulate filter (dpf)
    as environmental regulations are tightened, the market                 forecast for the european vehicles market
    for automotive exhaust system components is likely to
                                                                                                     diesel vehicles                   gasoline vehicles

                                                                        (million units)              ratio of diesel vehicles          ratio of vehicles with dpf

    expand in the future. ibiden is working to reduce the en-            50                                                     100％                100％

    vironmental burden by launching next-generation, high-
                                                                                                      75％
    performance products such as diesel particulate filters              40
                                                                                   58％

    (dpfs), installed into fuel-efficient, clean diesel vehicles.
                                                                         30        49％                49％                       46％                  47％



                                                                         20


                                                                         10


                                                                          0
                                                                                  2009               2010                       2011                2012 （year）

                                                                        note: forecasts by ibiden.


                            sic-dpf（diesel particulate filter


    in 2000, ibiden succeeded in achieving the practical application of dpfs made of silicon carbide (sic), which
    boasts high thermal conductivity, high heat resistance, thermal shock resistance, and high mechanical strength
    as its baseline performance. following that, with a view to further reducing the environmental burden, we de-
    veloped new technology such as the oct-square, which helped achieve long life and the downsizing of the filters.




                            conventional cell structure                                   oct-square (os) cell structure


                        the inlet cell of the dpf is expanded in an octagonal form to increase the ash reten-
                        tion capacity. this technology downsizes   the dpf volume to reduce material and en-
                        ergy consumption.




                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 32




53889312409.indd   32                                                                                                                                      2012/10/23   17:57:01

    environmental performance data



      environmental accounting

    1．environmental accounting in support of environmental management
    in promoting environmental management, ibiden performs calculations and analyses to develop a quantita-
    tive understanding of investment and costs, seeking to understand the management resources spent on re-
    ducing the environmental burden and the results. we use environmental accounting to reflect the effects of
    investment and cost in the decision-making process at the management level.


    2．basis for calculation
     accounting period            fiscal year (april 1 of the year to march 31 of the following year)

                                  ibiden co., ltd. and major domestic manufacturing group companies
     accounting scope
                                  (ibiden engineering co., ltd., ibiden graphite co., ltd., ibiden kenso co., ltd., ibiden
     (note 1)
                                  jushi co., ltd., ibiden electronics industries co., ltd., ibiden bussan co., ltd.)

                                  calculations conform to the environmental accounting guidelines (2005 edition) pub-
     calculation method
                                  lished by the ministry of the environment.

    note 1: calculations have been based on the consolidated financial results of major domestic manufacturing
            group companies since fiscal year 2009.


    3．main environmental protection costs
    in fiscal year 2011, investment increased 21% compared to fiscal year 2010. the increase in investment was
    primarily due to the investment made for“(6) research & development costs”(environment-related products
    such as automotive exhaust system components) and“(2) global environmental protection costs”(hydroelec-
    tric power plant updating, etc.).
        in fiscal year 2011, costs increased 4% compared to fiscal year 2010. this is primarily because“(2) global
    environmental protection costs”increased due to the maintenance work of water channels, penstocks and
    tunnels associated with the repair work of the hirose power plant facilities (electricity supply started in 1925),
    which we started in september 2011 in order to improve performance and repair deterioration.

    note:	with regard to the investment associated with the repair work mentioned above, approximately 3 bil-
           lion yen will be recorded in investment in fiscal year 2012.

                                                                                                                  (unit: million yen/year)

                                                                         investments (note 2)                     costs (note 2)
                               category
                                                                      fy 2010 fy 2011 year to year fy 2010 fy 2011 year to year

                        (1) pollution prevention costs                    786        388       －51%          3,212        3,055        －5%
      business
                        (2) global environmental conservation costs         4        322 +7847%              1,395        2,224       +59%
      area cost
                        (3) resources circulation costs                   292          16      －95%            961          953        －1%

      (4) upstream and downstream costs                                     0           0       ―                 8          15       +80%

      (5) administration costs                                              8           5      －40%            227          245         +8%

      (6) research & development costs                                    201        830      +313%          3,724        3,372        －9%

      (7) social activity costs                                             0           0       ―               29           32         12%

      (8) environmental remediation costs                                   0           0       ―                 0            0       ―

                                  total                                 1,291      1,560       +21%          9,555        9,896         +4%

    note 2: in cases when the total amount of investments and costs cannot be deemed to constitute environ-
            mental protection costs, we have calculated the difference or the proportional share.
                                                                                corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 33




53889312409.indd   33                                                                                                                    2012/10/23   17:57:01

    4．distribution ratio of total cost of environmental protection
                                     other                                  ・research and development costs include the cost of re-
                        resource
                        recycling     3%                                      searching and developing next-generation dpfs and other
                          10%                            research and         environmentally responsible products, aimed at control-
                                                         development          ling the environmental burden.
                                                             34%            ・global environmental protection costs include mainte-
                                                                              nance and administration costs of hydroelectric power
        global                                                                generation and cogeneration facilities.
    environmental
      protection
                                      fy 2011                               ・the environment is the main objective of costs associated
         22%
                                    total 9,896                               with hydroelectric power generation and research and de-
                                     million yen                              velopment of environmentally responsible products. the
                                                                              total cost is aggregated, as there is no appropriate pro
                                                                              rata basis.
                                                                            in fiscal year 2011,“global environmental protection costs”
                     pollution                                              increased to 22% from the previous fiscal year of 15% as a
                    prevention                                              composition ratio due to repair works for the hirose power
                       31%
                                                                            plant.

    5．economic results and real effects of environmental protection measures (note 3)
    the economic effects of energy conservation for fiscal year 2011 decreased 59% compared to fiscal year 2010.
    the main causes of the decrease were the decline in power generation and increase in costs due to the re-
    pair work of the hirose power plant. the economic effects of improved power generation efficiency achieved
    by the repair work will be recorded in fiscal year 2012 and thereafter.
        the economic effects of resource recycling for fiscal year 2011 increased by 15% compared to fiscal year
    2010. the main causes of the increase were the reduced waste treatment costs achieved by reducing losses
    at the water treatment plant specializing in liquid waste and drainage treatments, in addition to the economic
    results brought by effectively using resources through raw material loss improvement efforts.
                                                                                                                                  (unit: million yen/year)

                                                                                                                      amount
                                               description of effects                                                                     year to year
                                                                                                               fy 2010       fy 2011
                        1.	energy conservation effect and electric power marginal profit effect
                        results of effective hydroelectric power generation, improved power
                        generation efficiency, reduced idle operation loss, improved productiv-                  1,879           777          －59%
                        ity, improved air conditioning, improved steam energy, and thorough
                        maintenance and control
                        2. economic effects of resource recycling
      real effects      (1) reduced waste
                        ・effects of reduced liquid waste treatment costs, improved yield rates,
                          and reduced waste as a result of loss improvement
                        (2) recycling of waste                                                                   1,745         2,011            15%
                        ・effects of effective use of waste
                        ・effects of disposal by sale of substrates containing precious metals,
                          liquid waste containing precious metals, sludge containing copper
                          and waste plastics
                                                         total                                                   3,624         2,788          －23%

    note 3: these figures are not including estimated measure (assumed effect).

    6．fluctuations in environmental protection costs and economic results (note 4)
                                         (million yen)
                                                         ■environmental protection cost
                                           12,000
                                                         ■economic result of environmental protection measures
                                                                                                            9,896
                                           10,000                                9,363        9,555
                                                                    8,676
                                             8,000
                                                       6,854

                                             6,000


                                             4,000                                                  3,624
                                                                         2,824       3,115
                                                            2,519                                               2,788

                                             2,000


                                                   0
                                                         2007           2008       2009          2010         2011
    note 4: the figures are presented on a non-consolidated basis prior to fiscal year 2008 (on consolidated basis
            of ibiden co,. ltd. from fiscal year 2009)
                                                                                         corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 34




53889312409.indd   34                                                                                                                              2012/10/23   17:57:02

                      s material balance (input and output)
      the ibiden group’

    the ibiden group procures a variety of raw materials and is engaged in manufacturing activities by utilizing a
    considerable amount of natural resources on the earth such as water and energy. to provide earth-friendly
    products to our customers, we seek to grasp the environmental burden caused by our business activities on a
    global basis. we will continue to provide high-value-added products while setting medium- and long-term
    targets and reducing our environmental burden.



                                              energy use                                                                              raw materials
                            category                        ibiden    *1   group *2                            category                                     ibiden   group
                    electricity purcahsed electricity        217,126       618,464                                                 metals（t）                1,617     4,157
                   （mwh）
                       *3       renewable energy             145,521       145,521                         plastics and resins（t）                           5,770    11,679

                         natural gas（1000m ）                 52,598         70,019                                                    glass（t）                5       205
                                                     3




                                           lpg（ｔ）             1,410         1,430                        ceramic material,etc.（t）                           17,719   32,819

                             kerosene（1000ℓ）                  1,475         1,475                                                   wood（t）                  643      656

                            diesel oil（1000ℓ）                  83           25,661                                                   paper（t）               3,833     4,335

                             heavy oil（1000ℓ）                   0           3,711                         agricultural product（t）                             0       3,699

                                                                                                                            chemicals（t）                    63,846   139,134
                                         water resources                                *1      ibiden: ibiden domestic premises
                                                                                        *2   g roup: ibiden domestic premises and, five japanese group
                            category                         ibiden        group *4             companies (jushi, bussan and ibiden engineering (h.o.), ibiden
                                                                                                greentec, ibiden industries) and seven overseas group
                                                                                                companies (ipi, ieb, ihu, idfs, and micro mech, ibiden malaysia,
                        groundwater（1000m ）                   7,101         8,660
                                                     3
                                                                                                ibiden electronics (shanghai) )
                                                                                        *3    e lectric power: privately generated electricity by the group's
                        water works（1000m ）                    25           3,612
                                                     3
                                                                                                thermal power other than above (229,541 mwh)
                                                                                        *4     connected water works include 605,000 m of recycled water at
                                                                                                                                           3


                                                                                                industrial parks.




                                                                                      input


                                                                           ibiden group

                                                                                     output


                                            atmosphere                                                                                         waste
                            category                        ibiden    *1   group *2                            category                                     ibiden   group

                                        scope 1 *3             119           237                            material recycling（t）                           14,699   31,655
                     co2
                                        scope 2 *4             74            339                            thermal recycling（t）                            1,184     2,303
                    （1000ｔ）
                                      logistics     *5         1.4           1.4                                                    reuse（t）                 706      2,512

                    sox emissions（1000ｔ）                        0            0.02              amount of landfill waste after intermediate treatment（t）*6   1,666     3,063

                    nox emissions（1000ｔ）                       0.1           0.5               landfilled industrial waste（t）                                 0       828

                                                                                                  total generated waste（t）                                  18,256   40,360
                                           water system
                                                                                        *1 ibiden: ibiden domestic premises
                                 category                    ibiden         group       *2 group: ibiden domestic premises and, five japanese group
                                                                                           companies (jushi, bussan and ibiden engineering (h.o.), ibiden
                        discharge to public sewer（1000m ）      585          3,354
                                                     3
                                                                                           greentec, ibiden industries) and seven overseas group companies
                                                                                           (ipi, ieb, ihu, idfs, and micro mech, ibiden malaysia, ibiden
           water discharge to river（1000m ）                   3,880         5,372
                                                     3

                                                                                           electronics (shanghai) )
           system                                                                       *3 scope 1: direct co2 emissions (emissions from fuel used in business
                      cod contamination（t）                     13            14
                                                                                           establishments), include greenhouce gas other than co2
                             nitrogen contamination（t）          8             9         *4 scope 2: indirect co 2 emissions (emissions from purchased
                                                                                           electricity generation)
                             phosphorous contamination（t）      0.4           0.5        *5 logistics: transport by the ibiden group companies in japan
                                                                                        *6 this does not mean amount of final landfill disposal. amount of
                        industrial wastewater（1000ｔ）           18            29            waste which is finally disposed in a landfill (amount before volume
                                                                                           reduction treatment by incineration and such.)


                                                                                              corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 35




53889312409.indd   35                                                                                                                                                          2012/10/23   17:57:02

       environmental data for individual plants and group companies – compliance management
    ogaki plant                                                                                                               aoyanagi plant
    <no.1 wastewater measurement>                                                                                             <no.5 wastewater measurement>
              item                             unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum            item                             unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     pｈ                                                  5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                        7.3     7.6     ph                                                  5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                         7.1    7.6
     bod                                      mg/l           160                15              5             0.6     5.5     bod                                      mg/l           160                 15              5             4.5    11
     ss                                       mg/l           200               200           200              1.1     2.0     cod                                      mg/l           160             regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                                     total emission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    total emission      2.8    6.5
     n-h mineral oils                         mg/l              5                5              5             1.0     2.0     ss                                       mg/l           200                 30             30             6.7    11
     cyanide                                  mg/l              1              0.1          0.03             <0.01 <0.01      copper                                   mg/l              3                 2              1            0.37    1.3
    <no.2 wastewater measurement>                                                                                             lead                                     mg/l            0.1               0.1           0.03           <0.01 <0.01
                                                                                                                              total chromium                           mg/l              2                 1              1           <0.02 <0.02
              item                             unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                                                                                                              hexavalent chromium                      mg/l            0.5              0.25           0.25           <0.02 <0.02
     ph                                                  5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                         7.4    8.3
                                                                                                                              fluorine                                 mg/l              8                 8              5           <0.1    <0.1
     bod                                      mg/l           160                 15              5             3.1    8.8
                                                                                                                              cyanide                                  mg/l              1               0.1            0.1           <0.01 <0.01
     cod                                      mg/l           160             regulation of  regulation of
                                                                                                               3.5    7.1
                                                                                                                              1･1･1 trichloroethane                    mg/l              3                 3              3          <0.0005 <0.0005
                                                                            total emission total emission

     ss                                       mg/l           200                 30             30             4.2    14
                                                                                                                              ni                                       mg/l             －                  －              －            0.01   0.01
     copper                                   mg/l              3                 2              1             0.3    1.6
                                                                                                                              phenol                                   mg/l              5               0.4            0.4           <0.1    <0.1
     lead                                     mg/l            0.1               0.1           0.03           <0.01 <0.01
     total chromium                           mg/l              2                 1              1           <0.02 <0.02      n-h mineral oils                         mg/l            5            5             5           <1            <1
     hexavalent chromium                      mg/l            0.5              0.25           0.25           <0.02 <0.02
                                                                                                                              dichloromethane                          mg/l          0.2           0.2          0.2         0.003        0.009
     fluorine                                 mg/l              8                 8              5            0.10   0.12
                                                                                                                              nitrogen                                 mg/l          120           60           60           2.4          3.4
     cyanide                                  mg/l              1               0.1            0.1           <0.01 <0.01
                                                                                                                              phosphorus                               mg/l          16             8            8           0.1          0.4
     n-h mineral oils                         mg/l            5            5             5           <1            <1         boron and boron compounds                mg/l           10           10           10           0.4          1.2
                                                                                                                              ammonia and ammonium compounds,nitrite
     nitrogen                                 mg/l          120           60            60           1.7          4.1                                                  mg/l          100          100           100           1.8          2.5
                                                                                                                              and nitrate compounds
     phosphorus                               mg/l          16            8             8            0.1          0.2
     boron and boron compounds                mg/l           10           10            10           0.2          0.3         <no.6 wastewater measurement>
     ammonia and ammonium compounds,nitrite                                                                                                  item                       unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                              mg/l          100          100           100           1.5          3.2
     and nitrate compounds                                                                                                    ph                                                  5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                        7.8     7.9
    <air measurement>                                                                                                         bod                                      mg/l           160                 15             10            0.6     2.3
                                                                                                                              cod                                      mg/l           160             regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                                     total emission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    total emission     0.7      2
          item          equipment              unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                                                                                                              ss                                       mg/l           200                 30             30            <1      <1
                        boiler no.7           g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.002   0.002
                                                 3

                                                                                                                              cyanide                                  mg/l              1               0.1            0.1           <0.01 <0.01
                        boiler no.8           g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.002   0.002
                                                 3

                                                                                                                              phenol                                   mg/l              5               0.4            0.4           <0.1    <0.1
                        boiler no.9           g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.003   0.003
                                                 3


                        boiler no.10          g/m n
                                                 3
                                                         0.3             0.27           0.27            0.002   0.002         n-h mineral oils                         mg/l            5            5             5           <1            <1
                        boiler no.11          g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.003   0.003
                                                 3

                                                                                                                              nitrogen                                 mg/l          120           60            60          1.3          1.6
                        boiler no.12          g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.002   0.002
                                                 3

                                                                                                                              phosphorus                               mg/l          16            8             8          <0.05        <0.05
                        boiler no.13          g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.004   0.004
                                                 3


                        boiler no.14          g/m n
                                                 3
                                                         0.3             0.27           0.27           0.0025 0.003           <air measurement>
                        boiler no.15          g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.007   0.008              item          equipment              unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                                 3


                        boiler no.16          g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.003   0.004                            boiler no.2           g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                 3                                                                                                                        3


                        boiler no.17          g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.002   0.002             soot           gas turbine no.1      g/m n    0.05              0.05           0.05 <0.001 <0.001
                                                 3                                                                                                                        3

          soot
                        boiler no.18          g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.002   0.002                            gas turbine no.2      g/m n    0.05              0.05           0.05 <0.001 <0.001
                                                 3                                                                                                                        3


                        boiler no.19          g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.002   0.002                            boiler no.2            ppm      150               150           150              100    100
                                                 3


                        boiler no.20          g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.002   0.003             nox            gas turbine no.1       ppm       70                70             70              20     25
                                                 3


                        boiler no.21          g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                                       gas turbine no.2       ppm       70                70             70              17     19
                                                 3


                        boiler no.22          g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                 3
                                                                                                                              <noise measurement>
                        boiler no.23          g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                 3

                                                                                                                                       place                            unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                        boiler no.24          g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                 3

                                                                                                                               east (morning･evening)                   db             65                65             65             51      54
                        boiler no.25          g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                 3

                                                                                                                               west (morning･evening)                   db             65                65             65             47      53
                        boiler no.26          g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                 3

                                                                                                                               south (morning･evening)                  db             65                65             65             53      54
                        gas turbine no.1      g/m n    0.05              0.05           0.05 <0.001 <0.001
                                                 3

                                                                                                                               north (morning･evening)                  db             65                65             65             53      57
                        gas turbine no.2      g/m n    0.05              0.05           0.05 <0.001 <0.001
                                                 3

                                                                                                                                    east (night)                        db             60                60             60             50      54
                        boiler no.7            ppm      260               260           260               79      83
                                                                                                                                   west (night)                         db             60                60             60             47      53
                        boiler no.8            ppm      260               260           260               82      83
                                                                                                                                   south (night)                        db             60                60             60             52      55
                        boiler no.9            ppm      260               260           260               85      86
                                                                                                                                   north (night)                        db             60                60             60             52      57
                        boiler no.10           ppm      260               260           260               79      79
                        boiler no.11           ppm      260               260           260               85      91
                        boiler no.12           ppm      260               260           260               88      88
                        boiler no.13           ppm      260               260           260               91      91
                        boiler no.14           ppm      260               260           260               79      84
                        boiler no.15           ppm      260               260           260               93     100
                        boiler no.16           ppm      260               260           260               89      89
         nox
                        boiler no.17           ppm      260               260           260               87      87
                        boiler no.18           ppm      260               260           260               83      86
                        boiler no.19           ppm      260               260           260               88      88
                        boiler no.20           ppm      260               260           260               83      87
                        boiler no.21           ppm      150               150           150               46      47
                        boiler no.22           ppm      150               150           150               51      53
                        boiler no.23           ppm      150               150           150               42      45
                        boiler no.24           ppm      150               150           150               46      48
                        boiler no.25           ppm      150               150           150               47      47
                        boiler no.26           ppm      150               150           150               44      44
    <noise measurement>
              place                            unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
      north (morning･evening)                  db             65                65             65             54      56
      east (morning･evening)                   db             65                65             65             46      50
      south (morning･evening)                  db             65                65             65             48      51
      west (morning･evening)                   db             65                65             65             55      59
          north (night)                        db             60                60             60             53      56
           east (night)                        db             60                60             60             45      50
          south (night)                        db             60                60             60             46      49
          west (night)                         db             60                60             60             55      60           corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 36




53889312409.indd          36                                                                                                                                                                                                               2012/10/23   17:57:03

    gama plant                                                                                                                ogaki central plant
    <no.1 wastewater measurement>                                                                                             <wastewater measurement>
              item                             unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum                   item                      unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     ph                                                  5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                         7.3    7.8     ph                                                  5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                         6.6    7.5
     bod                                      mg/l           160                 15             5              1.8    4.1     bod                                      mg/l           160                 15              5            3.3     5.6
     cod                                      mg/l           160             regulation of
                                                                            total emission     10              0.6    2.4     cod                                      mg/l           160             regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                                     total emission
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    total emission      2.5    11
     ss                                       mg/l           200                 30            10              1.4     4      ss                                       mg/l           200                 30             30            3.4      9
     copper                                   mg/l              3                 2             1             0.15   0.42     copper                                   mg/l              3                 2              1            0.3    0.78
     lead                                     mg/l            0.1               0.1         0.03              0.01   0.01     lead                                     mg/l            0.1               0.1           0.03           <0.01 <0.01
     fluorine                                 mg/l              8                 8             5             0.12   0.24     total chromium                           mg/l              2                 1              1           <0.02 <0.02
     cyanide                                  mg/l              1               0.1         0.03             <0.01 <0.01      hexavalent chromium                      mg/l            0.5              0.25           0.25           <0.02 <0.02
     1･1･1 trichloroethane                    mg/l              3                 3             1           <0.0005 <0.0005   fluorine                                 mg/l              8                 8              5           <0.1    <0.1
                                                                                                                              cyanide                                  mg/l              1               0.1            0.1           <0.01 <0.01
     n-h mineral oils                         mg/l            5            5           1.7           <1             1
                                                                                                                              n-h mineral oils                         mg/l              5                 5              5             <1     <1
     dichloromethane                          mg/l          0.2           0.2         0.06        <0.002 <0.002               nitrogen                                 mg/l           120                60             60             2.3     4.1
     nitrogen                                 mg/l          120           60           20            3      4                 phosphorus                               mg/l            16                  8              8           <0.05 <0.05
     phosphorus                               mg/l          16             8          2.7          0.06   0.12                boron and boron compounds                mg/l            10                 10             10            0.14    0.6
     boron and boron compounds                mg/l           10           10           10          <0.1   <0.1                ammonia and ammonium compounds,nitrite
                                                                                                                                                                       mg/l          100          100           100           1.7          2.9
     ammonia and ammonium compounds,nitrite                                                                                   and nitrate compounds
                                              mg/l          100          100           100           2.5            3
     and nitrate compounds
                                                                                                                              <air measurement>
    <no.2 wastewater measurement>                                                                                                  item          equipment              unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                    item                       unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum                      b-1-1 boiler          g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                                          3


     ph                                                  5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                        7.9     8.2                        b-1-2 boiler          g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                                          3


     bod                                      mg/l           160                 15            10             0.7     3.4                        b-1-3 boiler          g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                                          3


     cod                                      mg/l           160                               10             1.6     6.8                        b-1-4 boiler          g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                             regulation of                                                                                3
                                                                            total emission

     ss                                       mg/l           200                 30            10             1.2      2                         b-1-5 boiler          g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                                          3

                                                                                                                                   soot
                                                                                                                                                 b-1-6 boiler          g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                                          3

     n-h mineral oils                         mg/l            5            5           1.7           <1            <1
                                                                                                                                                 b-1-7 boiler          g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                                          3


     nitrogen                                 mg/l          120           60           20          1.1     1.4                                   b-1-8 boiler          g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                                          3


     phosphorus                               mg/l           16            8           2.7        <0.05 <0.05                                    b-1-9 boiler          g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                                          3


     copper                                   mg/l           3             2            1         0.013   0.02                                   b-1-10 boiler         g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                                          3


     cyanide                                  mg/l           1            0.1         0.03        <0.01 <0.01                                    b-1-1 boiler           ppm      150               150           150              32      33
     lead                                     mg/l          0.1           0.1         0.03        <0.01 <0.01                                    b-1-2 boiler           ppm      150               150           150              31      34
     dichloromethane                          mg/l          0.2           0.2         0.06       <0.002 <0.002                                   b-1-3 boiler           ppm      150               150           150              33      34
     1･1･1 trichloroethane                    mg/l           3             3            1        <0.0005 <0.0005                                 b-1-4 boiler           ppm      150               150           150              30      30
     fluorine                                 mg/l            8            8            5         <0.1    <0.1                                   b-1-5 boiler           ppm      150               150           150              35      37
                                                                                                                                   nox
     boron and boron compounds                mg/l           10           10           10         <0.1    <0.1                                   b-1-6 boiler           ppm      150               150           150              34      36
     ammonia and ammonium compounds,nitrite                                                                                                      b-1-7 boiler           ppm      150               150           150              36      36
                                              mg/l          100          100           100           1.1          1.2
     and nitrate compounds                                                                                                                       b-1-8 boiler           ppm      150               150           150              32      34
                                                                                                                                                 b-1-9 boiler           ppm      150               150           150              30      31
    <air measurement>                                                                                                                            b-1-10 boiler          ppm      150               150           150              32      32

          item   equipment                     unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                 boiler no.9 gas              g/m n
                                                 3
                                                         0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                    <noise measurement>
                 boiler no.10 gas             g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                               place                          unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                                 3


                 boiler no.11 gas             g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                     west (morning･evening)                   db             50                50             50             39      43
                                                 3


        soot     boiler no.12 gas             g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                     north (morning･evening)                  db             50                50             50             44      46
                                                 3


     （oxygen boiler no.13 gas                 g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                     eastno.1 (morning･evening)               db             50                50             50             45      47
                                                 3


     equivalent） boiler no.14 gas             g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                     eastno.2 (morning･evening)               db             60                60             60             46      52
                                                 3


                 boiler no.15 gas             g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                     south (morning･evening)                  db             60                60             60             41      45
                                                 3


                 boiler no.16 gas             g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                          west (night)                        db             45                45             45             37      42
                                                 3


                 gas turbine                  g/m n    0.05              0.05           0.05            0.005   0.01                north (night)                       db             45                45             45             43      45
                                                 3


                 boiler no.9 gas               ppm      150               150           150               42     48              east no.1 (night)                      db             45                45             45             44     46*
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1


                 boiler no.10 gas              ppm      150               150           150               42     48              east no.2 (night)                      db             50                50             50             45      50
                 boiler no.11 gas              ppm      150               150           150               42     51                 south (night)                       db             50                50             50             38      42
        nox      boiler no.12 gas              ppm      150               150           150               40     47           *1    influence of the sound of flumes
     （oxygen boiler no.13 gas                  ppm      150               150           150               25     28
     equivalent） boiler no.14 gas              ppm      150               150           150               30     35
                 boiler no.15 gas              ppm      150               150           150               34     39
                 boiler no.16 gas              ppm      150               150           150               33     37
                 gas turbine                   ppm       70                70             70              38     47


    <noise measurement>
              place                            unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
      east (morning･evening)                   db             65                65             65             47      55
      south (morning･evening)                  db             65                65             65             51      54
      west (morning･evening)                   db             65                65             65             54      59
           east (night)                        db             60                60             60             46      55
          south (night)                        db             60                60             60             50      54
          west (night)                         db             60                60             60             53      58




                                                                                                                                   corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 37




53889312409.indd          37                                                                                                                                                                                                               2012/10/23   17:57:03

    ogaki-kita plant                                                                                                                 kinuura plant
    <total wastewater measurement>                                                                                                   <wastewater measurement>
                       item                           unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum                   item                     unit    national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     ph                                                         5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                         7.7     8      ph                                               5.8 ～ 8.6                       6.0 ～ 8.4            6.4     7.2
     bod                                             mg/l           160                 30             20             5.2    20      bod                                     mg/l         160                               20              7      18
     cod                                             mg/l           160             regulation of
                                                                                   total emission
                                                                                                   regulation of
                                                                                                  total emission      6.9    33      cod                                     mg/l         160                               30             12      19
     ss                                              mg/l           200                 30             25             1.8     8      ss                                      mg/l         200                               50             13      23
     copper                                          mg/l              3                 2              1            0.01   0.04     copper                                  mg/l            3                             0.2            0.01    0.01
     total chromium                                  mg/l              2               0.5            0.5           <0.02 <0.02      total chromium                          mg/l            2                               1            0.02    0.02
     hexavalent chromium                             mg/l            0.5               0.2            0.2           <0.02 <0.02      fluorine                                mg/l            8                             3.0            0.16    0.16
     fluorine                                        mg/l              8                 8              8           <0.1    <0.1     phenol                                  mg/l            1                             0.2             0.1     0.1
     cyanide                                         mg/l              1               0.1           0.08           <0.01 <0.01      n-h mineral oils                        mg/l            2                               1              1       1
     1･1･1 trichloroethane                           mg/l              3               0.3            0.1          <0.0005 <0.0005   nitrogen                                mg/l         120                               30             23      23
     trichloroethylene                               mg/l          0.03               0.03           0.01 <0.002 <0.002              phosphorus                              mg/l          16                                3             1.1     1.1
     phenol                                          mg/l              5               0.4            0.4           <0.1    <0.1     soluble manganese                       mg/l          10                                3             1.2     1.2
     n-h mineral oils                                mg/l              5                 5              4             <1     <1      zinc                                    mg/l            2                               1            0.03    0.03
     nitrogen                                        mg/l           120                 60             50             16    52*      solubility iron                         mg/l          10                                3             0.9     0.9
                                                                                                                                1


     phosphorus                                      mg/l            16                  8              7             1.7   6.9*     coliform bacilli                       piece/cm    3000                            1000                4       4
                                                                                                                                 1                                                  3


     boron and boron compounds                       mg/l            10                 10             10            0.11   0.22     boron and boron compounds mg/l                        10                                3             0.1     0.1
     ammonia and ammonium compounds,nitrite                                                                                          ammonia and ammonium compounds,nitrite
                                                     mg/l          100          100           100           7.3           18                                                 mg/l         100                               50             16      16
     and nitrate compounds                                                                                                           and nitrate compounds
    <air measurement>                                                                                                                <air measurement>
         item         equipment                       unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum        item         equipment                        unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     hydrogen sulfide vacuum incinerator              ppm          0.02              0.02           0.02 <0.0005 <0.0005                              once-through boiler no.1         g/m n      0.3                             0.3            0.005   0.009
                                                                                                                                                                                           3


                                                                                                                                                      once-through boiler no.2*        g/m n      0.3                             0.3            0.003   0.003
                                                                                                                                                                                   1       3
    <noise measurement>
                                                                                                                                          soot        once-through boiler no.3         g/m n      0.3                             0.3           0.0015 0.002
                                                                                                                                                                                           3

                      place                           unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                                                                                                                                      once-through boiler no.4 gas*    g/m n      0.1                             0.1            0.001   0.001
                                                                                                                                                                                   2       3

      north (morning･evening)                         db             60                60             60             44      59
                                                                                                                                                      once-through boiler no.5 gas*    g/m n      0.1                             0.1            0.001   0.001
                                                                                                                                                                                   2       3

      east (morning･evening)                          db             60                60             60             46      53
                                                                                                                                                      once-through boiler no.1          ppm      260                             100               77      80
      south (morning･evening)                         db             60                60             60             45      54
                                                                                                                                                      once-through boiler no.2*         ppm      260                             100               69      69
                                                                                                                                                                                   1

     western angle of building d (morning･evening)    db             60                60             60             44      58
                                                                                                                                          nox         once-through boiler no.3          ppm      260                             100               79      80
      west (morning･evening)                          db             60                60             60             49      59
                                                                                                                                                      once-through boiler no.4 gas*     ppm      150                             100               32      32
                                                                                                                                                                                   2

     graveyard (morning･evening)                      db             60                60             60             45      53
                                                                                                                                                      once-through boiler no.5 gas*     ppm      150                             100               32      32
                                                                                                                                                                                   2

              north (night)                           db             50                50             50             44     57*
                                                                                                                                2

                                                                                                                                                      once-through boiler no.1         m n/h    0.13                             0.13             0.02    0.02
                                                                                                                                                                                         3

               east (night)                           db             50                50             50             46     53*
                                                                                                                                2

                                                                                                                                          sox         once-through boiler no.2*        m n/h    0.13                             0.13             0.01    0.01
                                                                                                                                                                                   1     3

              south (night)                           db             50                50             50             44     52*
                                                                                                                                2

                                                                                                                                                      once-through boiler no.3         m n/h    0.13                             0.13             0.02    0.02
                                                                                                                                                                                         3

     western angle of building d (morning･evening)    db             50                50             50             43     58*
                                                                                                                                2


              west (night)                            db             50                50             50             49     53*
                                                                                                                                2    <noise measurement>
         graveyard (night)                            db             50                50             50             44     55*              place                                      unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                                                                                                                2



        ince we upgraded the device of the combined treatment tank in february
    *1 s                                                                                                                             east (morning･evening)                             db             65                               65             59      60
       2012, figures have increased due to the instability of the biological treatment.                                              *1   boiler no. 2 was discontinued due to fuel conversion.
    *2 the data excess by the sound of insects and frogs.                                                                            *2   boiler no. 4, no. 5_gas was installed due to fuel conversion.



    godo plant
    <wastewater measurement - west>
              item                                    unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     ph                                                         5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6                        7.6     8.0
     bod                                             mg/l           160                 15             15            0.4     1.0
     cod                                             mg/l           160             regulation of
                                                                                   total emission
                                                                                                   regulation of
                                                                                                  total emission     1.9      5
     ss                                              mg/l           200                 30             30            1.7     7.0
     n-h mineral oils                                mg/l              5                 5              5            1.1     2.0
     nitrogen                                        mg/l           120             regulation of
                                                                                   total emission      60            1.2     1.7
     phosphorus                                      mg/l            16             regulation of
                                                                                   total emission       8           <0.05 <0.05
    <wastewater measurement - east>
              item                                    unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     ph                                                         5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6                        7.2     7.7
     bod                                             mg/l           160                 15             15            5.2    10.0
     cod                                             mg/l           160             regulation of
                                                                                   total emission
                                                                                                   regulation of
                                                                                                  total emission     5.7     8.6
     ss                                              mg/l           200                 30             30            4.2    15.0
     n-h mineral oils                                mg/l              5                 5              5            <1      <1
     nitrogen                                        mg/l           120             regulation of
                                                                                   total emission      60           10.0     21
     phosphorus                                      mg/l            16             regulation of
                                                                                   total emission       8            1.3     2.9
    <air measurement>
          item              equipment                 unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
          soot               exhaust                 g/m n      0.2              0.2            0.2            0.001   0.002
                                                        3


          nox                exhaust                  ppm       60                60             60             4.4     5.2
    <noise measurement>
              place                                   unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
      east (morning･evening)                          db             60                60             60             47      55
      south (morning･evening)                         db             60                60             60             46     66*
                                                                                                                                1


      west (morning･evening)                          db             60                60             60             44      48
      north (morning･evening)                         db             60                60             60             43      47
           east (night)                               db             50                50             50             47     54*
                                                                                                                                1


          south (night)                               db             50                50             50             45     58*
                                                                                                                                1


          west (night)                                db             50                50             50             43      49
          north (night)                               db             50                50             50             41      46
    *1      the data excess by the sound of insects and frogs.

                                                                                                                                          corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 38




53889312409.indd             38                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2012/10/23   17:57:04

    ibiden engineering co., ltd                                                                                       ibiden jushi co., ltd
    <wastewater measurement>                                                                                          <air measurement>
                 item                   unit     national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum      item    equipment          unit     national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     ph                                          5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6                        7.1     7.4                boiler no.1                      0.3              0.3           0.24            0.009   0.009
                                                                                                                         soot                      g/m n
                                                                                                                                                         3

                                                                                                                                 boiler no.3                      0.3              0.3           0.24            0.009   0.012
     bod                               mg/l         600          600           600           2.9          7.5
                                                                                                                                 gas turbine                      70                70             60              53      57
     cod                               mg/l          －             －            －            3.4          4.9            nox     boiler no.1        ppm          180               180           144               51      51
                                                                                                                                 boiler no.3                     180               180           144               77      80
     ss                                mg/l         600          600           600            5            10
                                                                                                                                 boiler no.1                    7.07              7.07           5.65             0.29    0.48
                                                                                                                         sox                       m n/h
                                                                                                                                                     3

     copper                            mg/l          3             3            3          0.03   0.09                           boiler no.3                    3.68              3.68           2.95             0.16    0.29
     lead                              mg/l        0.1           0.1          0.1         <0.01 <0.01
     chromium                          mg/l          2             2           2          <0.02 <0.02
     hexavalent chromium
     fluorine
                                       mg/l
                                       mg/l
                                                   0.5
                                                     8
                                                                 0.5
                                                                   8
                                                                              0.5
                                                                               8
                                                                                          <0.02 <0.02
                                                                                           0.30    1.4
                                                                                                                      ibiden bussan co., ltd
     cyanide                           mg/l          1             1           1          <0.01 <0.01                 <wastewater measurement>
     1･1･1 trichloroethane             mg/l          3             3           3         <0.0005 <0.0005                       item                 unit     national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     1･1･2 trichloroethane             mg/l        0.06          0.06         0.06       <0.0006 <0.0006              ph                                     5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.1 ～ 8.3                        7.4     7.6
     1.3 dichloropropanes              mg/l        0.02          0.02         0.02       <0.0002 <0.0002              bod                           mg/l         160               100             80             2.5     5.3
     1･2 dichloroethane                mg/l        0.04          0.04         0.04       <0.0004 <0.0004              cod                           mg/l         160               160           128              4.7     8.1
     1･1 dichloroethylene              mg/l          1             1            1        <0.002 <0.002                ss                            mg/l         200                90             72             3.3      6
     cis- 1･2 dichloroethylene         mg/l        0.4           0.4          0.4        <0.004 <0.004                n-h mineral oils              mg/l          10                10              8             <1      <1
     trichloroethylene                 mg/l        0.3           0.3          0.3        <0.002 0.008                 nitrogen                      mg/l         120               120             96             2.6     11
     tetrachloroethylene               mg/l        0.1           0.1          0.1        <0.0005 <0.0005              phosphorus                    mg/l          16                16          12.8             0.07     0.1
     dichloromethane                   mg/l         0.2           0.2         0.2        <0.002 0.002
     carbon tetrachloride              mg/l       0.02          0.02         0.02        <0.0002 <0.0002              <air measurement>
     cadmium                           mg/l         0.1           0.1         0.1         <0.01 <0.01
                                                                                                                         item     equipment    unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     phenol                            mg/l          5             5            5         <0.1    <0.1
                                                                                                                                  boiler no.1            0.3              0.3           0.24            0.007   0.009
     n-h mineral oils                  mg/l          5             5           5            <1     <1
                                                                                                                                  boiler no.2            0.3              0.3          0.24             0.007   0.007
     arsenic                           mg/l        0.1           0.1          0.1         <0.01 <0.01
                                                                                                                         soot     boiler no.3 g/m n      0.3              0.3          0.24             0.009   0.010
                                                                                                                                                 3

     alkyl mercury                     mg/l        nd            nd           nd           nd      nd
                                                                                                                                  boiler no.4            0.3              0.3          0.24             0.011   0.016
     organic phosphorus                mg/l          1             1           1          <0.01 <0.01
                                                                                                                                  boiler no.5            0.3              0.3          0.24             0.013   0.019
     polyhalogenated biphenyl          mg/l       0.003         0.003        0.003       <0.0005 <0.0005
                                                                                                                                  boiler no.1           180               180           114              74      74
     zinc                              mg/l          2             2            2          0.02   0.08
                                                                                                                                  boiler no.2           180               180           114              57      57
     manganese                         mg/l         10            10           10          0.01   0.04
                                                                                                                         nox      boiler no.3 ppm       180               180           114              49      49
     benzene                           mg/l        0.1           0.1          0.1        <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                  boiler no.4           180               180           114              71      71
     boron and boron compounds         mg/l         10            10           10         <0.1    0.11
                                                                                                                                  boiler no.5           180               180           114              52      52




    ibiden electronics (beijing) co., ltd.                                                                            ibiden philippines,inc.
    <wastewater measurement>                                                                                          <wastewater measurement>
                 item                   unit                  city standard voluntary standard average maximum                      item                        unit      industrial park standard voluntary standard average maximum
     ph                                                         6 ～ 9 6.2 ～ 8.5                  7.5     7.8          ph                                                    6.5-9.0 6.7-8.8                             7.38   8.00
     bod                               mg/l                       300           270               51     70           bod                                      mg/l             500                    400               75    296
     cod                               mg/l                       500           450              147    199           cod                                      mg/l             800                    700               33    100
     ss                                mg/l                       400           360              30      46           total suspended solids, tss              mg/l             350                    280                7     31
     copper                            mg/l                         1            0.5            0.25    0.47          ss                                       mg/l               0.5                   0.4             0.18   0.40
     cyanide                           mg/l                         1            0.5            0.01    0.02          copper                                   mg/l                  1                  0.8             0.29   0.80
     ni                                mg/l                       0.5          0.45             0.06    0.09          lead                                     mg/l               0.3                 0.24              nd      nd
     n-h mineral oils                  mg/l                        10              9             0.4     0.5          chromium (hexavalent)                    mg/l               0.1                 0.08              nd      nd
     animal oil and vegetable oil      mg/l                       100             50             1.4     2.5          cyanide                                  mg/l               0.2                 0.16             0.003   0.08
                                                                                                                      nickel                                   mg/l               0.5                   0.4             nd      nd
    <air measurement>                                                                                                 color                                    pcu              150                    120               41     88
                                                                                                                      oil & grease                             mg/l                  5                    4             0.1     1.2
                   item                 unit                  city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                                                                                                      iron (dissolved)                         mg/l                10                     8             nd      nd
     h2so4                             mg/m                         5            4.5             1.05    3.29
                                             3

                       scrubber                                                                                       manganese (dissolved)                    mg/l                  1                  0.8            0.01    0.05
     hcl                               mg/m                        30             25             0.34    0.63
                                             3

                       emissions                                                                                      formaldehyde                             mg/l                  1                  0.8            0.01    0.14
     hcn                               mg/m                       1.9            0.9            0.006   0.012
                                             3


     toluene                           mg/m                        25             20           <0.0015 <0.0015
                                             3

                      carbon surface                                                                                  <air measurement>
     phenol                            mg/m                        20             15            0.098    0.21
                                             3

                      discharge port
     nmhc                              mg/m                        80             70             0.21    0.35                      item                        unit   national standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                             3


     ammonia deodorization             mg/m                        30             25             0.03    0.05         nox                                     mg/m     2,000              1,600              577    1210
                                             3                                                                                                                      3


     hydrogen sulfide     tower        mg/m
                                             3
                                                                    5            4.5            0.002   0.005         sox                                     mg/m
                                                                                                                                                                    3
                                                                                                                                                                       1,500              1,200               14     18
     soot                              mg/m                        30             25              3.2     4.9         particulate matter (pm)                 mg/m        150               120              14      19
                                             3                                                                                                                      3


     toluene          air exhaust      mg/m                        25             20           <0.0015 <0.0015        carbon monoxide (co)                    mg/m        500               400              86     364
                                             3                                                                                                                      3


     nmhc                              mg/m                        80             70             0.63    0.71         copper (cu)                             mg/m        100                 80             0.3     4.2
                                             3                                                                                                                      3




    <noise measurement>                                                                                               <noise measurement>
                time                    unit                  city standard voluntary standard average maximum                     time                         unit      national standard voluntary standard average maximum
              daytime                  db（a）                       65           64.5             54      57           morning (5am - 9am)                       db             65                 56             54      54
              nightime                 db（a）                       55           54.5             50     53.7          daytime (9am - 6 pm)                      db             70                 57             56      56
                                                                                                                      evening (6 pm - 10 pm)                    db             65                 55             53      54
                                                                                                                      nightime (10 pm - 5 am)                   db             60                 56             52      54




                                                                                                                         corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 39




53889312409.indd      39                                                                                                                                                                                                   2012/10/23   17:57:05

    social contribution



    we are pressing ahead with a global field of view to implement activities to contribute to the regions where
    we are deploying centers of business operations




           philosophy for social contribution and promotional structure

    basic policy
    we aim to contribute to local communities by taking advantage of our unique corporate characteristics, in-
    cluding our capacity to improve living environments and to offer opportunities for personal development. we
    take part in and support groups involved in activities of this nature. we also undertake our own community
    projects across the globe, tailoring them to local cultures and customs, and earning the trust of the interna-
    tional community.
                                                                                                     “fostering the next genera-
                         focusing on our priority areas, which are“protecting the global environment,”
         “contributing to social welfare and local communities,”and“disaster relief activities,”we promote the
    tion,”
    social contribution activities of the ibiden group, and at the same time, we encourage our employees to vol-
    untarily participate in non-profit social contribution activities.


    promotional structure of social contribution activities
    we set up a social contribution team in the general affairs division as a specialized organization in fiscal year
    2008 and have been drafting policies and plans and organizing and operating activities. in fiscal year 2011,
    we established“social contribution rules.”they stipulate which activities are of priority and are to be con-
    ducted by the domestic ibiden group, the formation of the social contribution committee to facilitate
    smooth social contribution efforts, and the establishment of the social contribution fund to support the com-
        s social contribution activities and social contribution activity groups in which our employees participate.
    pany’
                         the social contribution committee, which consists of representatives of group companies in japan, ap-
    proves annual activities for social contribution and operates and manages the social contribution fund. the
    committee also examines the details related to the recognition and rewarding of collaborative activities with
    other groups promoting social contribution, such as npos and ngos, and employees’volunteer activities.


    diagram of social contribution promotion system


                                                                                 society (stakeholders)
     social contribution activities conducted




                                                                                                                                                               social contribution activities conducted
             by the group companies




                                                   social contribution team            plants and
                                                                                                                                     employees
                                                                                                                                                                             by employees




                                                in the general aﬀairs division    the group companies

                                                 organization appointed to         responsible for the                         volunteer activities of
                                                promote social contribution       activities of each plant                          employees
                                                  and volunteer activities         and the companies
                                                                                                                  support




                                                     the ibiden group social contribution committee

                                                 deliberations of the activity and determination of the budget




                                                                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 40




53889312409.indd                                40                                                                                                                                                        2012/10/23   17:57:05

    record of social contribution activities
                    s social contribution activities are based on the four priority pillars.
    the ibiden group’

        principal                                                                                                      social contribution
                                                          original program
        activities                                                                                                           system


      global            forest preservation                       community cleanup
      environ-          activities                                activities




                                                                                                                                                                     social contribution fund volunteer recognition program
      mental            forest preservation activi-               cleanup activities regularly
      protection        ties implemented through                  conducted in communities
      activities        the“ibiden’s forest”                      around workplaces




                                                                                                                         social contribution fund operation system
                        product-making                            plant tour
      activities        experience
      for fostering     hydroelectric power plant visit           inviting local students to a
      the next          and product-making experi-                plant tour at ibiden hunga-
      generation        ence through the ibiden tour              ry
                        promoting learning from water

      activities
      contributing      in-house blood                            sports event
      to social         donation
      welfare and       cooperation through ac-                   holding the ibiden cup
      local             cepting blood donation                    soccer tournament
      communi-          buses at plants
      ties

                        support for disaster
      disaster          victims
      relief            fund-raising campaigns for                fund-raising events at ibiden
      activities        those affected by the great               electronics malaysia
                        east japan earthquake




      protecting the global environment

    grounded in the values of harmony with nature, we are conducting activities that lead to environmental pro-
    tection globally.

                                      s forest”
    forest building activities:“ibiden’
    in fiscal year 2008, we embarked on a forest building
    initiative as part of our global environmental protec-
    tion activities. this activity takes place chiefly in
    higashi-yokoyama, the place where ibiden was
    founded, and where the company operates its initial
    hydroelectric power generation business. over the
    next 10 years, we will be planting trees, thinning the
    forests and conducting improvement cutting in the                     ibiden not only engages in reforestation projects to stop glob-
                                                                          al warming but also provides a place where employees, their
    district, with an approximate total area of 4 0 hect-                 families and local residents can experience forest building.
    ares in the town of ibigawa. together with the local
    public, employees and their family members, we will
    continue to carry out sustainability activities aimed at
    maintaining harmony with nature.
        in collaboration with the local authorities, its resi-
    dents, and nonprofit organizations (npos), we
    undertake projects ranging from nature walks to com-
    munity exchange using the forests and local cultures.
        we held activities 14 times over a four-year peri-
    od until fiscal year 2011, with the participation of a                in collaboration with local residents, we hold hands-on classes
    total of 1,000 people (excluding staff members), and                  using thinned wood as part of tree-planting and autumn forest
    planted approximately 8 0 0 trees. we will continue                   activities.
    to make efforts to build forests loved by communities
    while widening the circle of participants.
                                                                               corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 41




53889312409.indd   41                                                                                                                                                                                        2012/10/23       17:57:06

    [planting activities worldwide]
    <ibiden electronics (beijing), launch of tree-planting initiative in commemoration of its 10th anniversary>
    ibiden electronics (beijing), which celebrated its 10th anniversary in 2010, em-
    barked on tree-planting activities in a beijing suburb. on april 16, 2011, we held
    the second tree-planting activity. approximately 400 people participated, includ-
    ing employees and their family members, and planted 220 trees.


    <ibiden philippines,“tree planting”>
    we carry out tree-planting activities on the premises of and around the first phil-
    ippine industrial park (fpip) where the ibiden philippines plant is located. on
    september 17, 2011, 43 employees participated voluntarily in the planting of 103
    mahogany trees. we also planted 100 trees on january 14, 2012. in all, so far
    we have planted 400 trees around the fpip.




    [actions for a cleaner community]
    <ibiden domestic groups: voluntary cleanup activity in a community>
    the ibiden group regularly conducts community
    cleanup and beautification activities in the areas
    where it operates. in 2011, more than 6,000 of our
                                    s self-initiated
    employees took part in the group’
    actions. in addition, a number of employees serve
    as volunteer crew for cleanup activities organized
                s alumni, municipal governments
    by the group’                                                        s clean-river
                                                            ibiden bussan’                      group alumni’   s environmen-
    (such as the city of ogaki) and local npos.             action                              tal beautification action



    ＜ibiden philippines, community cleanup activity＞
    working in partnership with local residents, ibiden philippines carries out community cleanup activities. more-
                                                                             s unused oil drums made of resin
    over, since 2010, we have been continuing activities to convert the plant’
                                                                                            into garbage cans and do-
                                                                                            nate them for the purpose
                                                                                            of community cleanup.




    <participation in the co2 reduction / light-down campaign>
    we take part in the co2 reduction / light-down (i.e. lights-off) campaign being run by the ministry of the en-
    vironment as a means to stop global warming. during the campaign period, the lights for the rooftop
    signboard at our aoyanagi plant were switched off at certain times.




                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 42




53889312409.indd   42                                                                                                     2012/10/23   17:57:06

      fostering the next generation

    we are promoting activities for the development of young people to foster the next generation for the future.

    ibiden tour – learning from“water”
    since 2010, we have been conducting two-day and one-night tours to support edu-
    cation about the power of nature and electricity through a visit to the higashi-
    yokoyama power plant, which has been operating since our establishment, and
    product-making experience.
        while learning about the history of the region’s development, both parents and
    children study the structure and functions of a water wheel, which generates electric-
    ity using the power of water, by actually making one. we offered the tour to local elementary school students
    and their parents in fiscal year 2011, and 91% of the 13 participating families consisting of 29 people evaluated
    the tour as“satisfactory.”



    [ibiden engineering’ s lecture for children]
    ogaki city’s“kagayaki life town spring gathering”was held at the ogaki city
    suitopia center. at this event, we held a lecture for children on science, during
    which 50 children studied about and created compasses.



    [support for the hiro gakuen academy, a school for brazilian expatriates]
    in 2007, the group began to assist the hiro gakuen academy, a school attended by brazilian children in ogaki,
    gifu prefecture. the group partially subsidizes the cost of textbook purchases and supports school operation
    and youth development programs.



    [ibiden hungary and others: plant visits]
                               ibiden hungary gives plant tours to local junior high school students. a tour in-
                               cludes a plant visit, briefing on dpf and exchanges of opinion. student visitors
                               enjoy rare opportunities to view production lines in operation and develop a bet-
                               ter understanding of work performed by a variety of people through information
                               exchanges.




      contributing to social welfare and local communities

    we are contributing to social welfare and local communities to cooperate with local communities as well as
    to facilitate local development.

    [participation in the mikoshi parade in the jumangoku festival in ogaki]
    the ibiden group is a regular participant in the kigyo mikoshi (portable shire) parade section of the juman-
    goku festival hosted by the city of ogaki every october.
    ibiden’ s scope of involvement expanded in fiscal 2 0 0 9,
    when its employees initiated post-festival cleaning activi-
    ties around the thoroughfare leading to the main train
    station. ibiden strongly advocates local revitalization ef-
    forts, which it tries to help by amplifying the festival spirit
    together with local residents.




                                                                      corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 43




53889312409.indd   43                                                                                                          2012/10/23   17:57:06

      disaster relief activities

                                                                                                      s lives and
    we implement disaster relief activities to contribute to the recovery and reconstruction of people’
    social infrastructure in the communities.

    [the great east japan earthquake support]
    a significant amount of donations were also made by the domestic and overseas group companies through
    fund-raising activities by the employees, charity auctions and others for the areas affected by the great east
    japan earthquake. these donations were given to the japan red cross as well as to organizations dedicated
    to disaster recovery.




                   ＜in-house fund-raising activi-   ＜fund-raising event at the cafete-
                             ties ＞                 ria of ibiden electronics malaysia＞


      encouraging volunteerism

    we are promoting social contribution and volunteer activities to encourage our employees’voluntary, self-mo-
    tivated participation in volunteer activities.

    [volunteer encouragement program]
    ibiden and its domestic group companies provide special leave for volunteers (a special paid leave of up to 7
    days a year) as a volunteering encouragement program. in addition, the social contribution committee grants
    awards to employees according to our internal rules.



    [
    “chovola  activities”simple action to start volunteering]
    as volunteer activities in which anyone can casually participate, we are facilitating“chovola activities”within
    the group, in which spoiled postcards, used stamps and plastic bottle caps are collected and donated. using
    a simple activity as an opportunity for our employees to start volunteering, we deliver information on local
    volunteer programs internally and invite the employees to participate in a wide range of volunteer activities.



    [synchronized actions between oversea bases and japan]
    the ibiden group has made donations to support environmental group in
    time with environmental education activities at oversea base. the dona-
    tions are raised by the group’   s employees and alumni in japan who
    organize drives to collect unused books and cds exchange them for cash
    during the new year holidays. ibiden philippines participates and cooper-
    ates in activities implemented by environmental protection organizations
    there.



    [ibiden philippines, support activities for the local youth]
    we donate stationery to support elementary school students and young children
    in the region. the stationery was purchased using funds donated by the employ-
    ees, who also volunteered to help pack the stationery.


                                                                         corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 44




53889312409.indd   44                                                                                                             2012/10/23   17:57:06

    [ibiden cup youth soccer tournament]
                                        we annually hold a youth soccer tournament in autumn for the development
                                        of young people and local revitalization through sports. in 2011, 40 teams of
                                        boys and girls from not only gifu prefecture but also aichi, mie, and shiga pre-
                                        fectures participated in the tournament, where they played exciting games.




    [support for the ibigawa marathon]
    we provide support for the ibigawa marathon, a sporting event that takes
    place in the town of ibigawa-cho every november. as a official sponsor, the
    group supports operations of the event by making available its parking lots
    adjacent to its plants in ibigawa-cho. group employees also serve as traffic
    controllers and staff at water stations along the marathon route.




    [in-house blood donation drives]
                                     the group has registered itself as a japan red cross blood donation supporter,
                                     running blood donation drives. blood can neither be created artificially nor stored
                                     for a long period of time. for this reason, we are working to secure a stable sup-
                                     ply of blood by focusing mainly on efforts in winter, when the number of blood
                                     donors decreases.
                                         in fiscal year 2011, 430 participants cooperated in blood donation drives in-
    cluding ibiden and group companies. furthermore, ibiden philippines has been participating in blood
    donation drives for the past five years. in recognition of its ongoing blood donation activities, ibiden philip-
    pines received a letter of appreciation from the philippine red cross, batangas branch. starting in fiscal year
    2012, ibiden electronics malaysia also plans to implement in-house blood donation drives.


       stakeholders’voices: toshiya saeki, section manager, operational division promotion section, gifu red cross blood center

       periodic and long-term cooperative activities held at the ibiden head office, plants and
       group companies have contributed significantly to accomplishing the mission of the
       blood center, which is“to provide a stable supply of safe blood to medical institutions.”
       while the blood donation drives must place a burden on employees, they play a very
       significant lifesaving role, saving the lives of patients. i hope to continue to receive coop-
       eration from many employees, including those who have never donated blood before.




    [ibiden hungary       donation of personal computers to the local police]
    in may 2011, ibiden hungary invited the chief of the local police to the company and donated personal com-
    puters and monitors in response to their request for help with their computerization.




                                                                        corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 45




53889312409.indd   45                                                                                                            2012/10/23   17:57:07

    social responsibility for our products



    in line with the customers-first values included in the ibiden way, the group meets the needs of customers
    through unique technologies and designs that consider the global environment. we understand that our
    greatest mission is to consistently supply safe and reliable products.



      quality management that supports customers-first values

    basic approach
    by consistently developing cutting-edge technologies, ibiden contributes to the creation of a comfortable it
    society as well as a society where cars and nature coexist through the proposal and supply of high-value-
    added products. considering its“customer first”policy as one of its virtues, the group meets the needs of
    customers through unique technologies and designs that take into account the global environment. we
    understand that our greatest mission is to consistently supply safe and reliable products. we seek to achieve
    a high level of customer satisfaction by putting customer needs at the forefront of our product development
    process, accepting only the highest quality at the design stage, incorporating mechanisms that ensure quality
    into the product-making stage, and creating a management system that provides the necessary support.

    the group’ s basic policy for the quality of electronics operation: based on the concept of quality first, we will
    achieve customer satisfaction by clearly grasping customer needs and producing and providing reliable
    products through our unique technological capabilities.
       the group’ s basic policy for the quality of ceramics operation: through ibi-techno, we will incorporate
    customers’real and potential needs and add values to such needs while striving to provide moving
    experiences to customers through our product-making, which continually gives top priority to quality.


    quality assurance system
    the ibiden group has a quality assurance organization at each
    operation, with the executive vice president as a main officer in
    charge of company-wide quality assurance.
       to benefit our customers and the community with quality
    products, we conduct design reviews and hold quality assurance
    meetings to study the design and specifications at each stage of the
    manufacturing process, from the development of cutting-edge
    technologies, through product planning and design, to mass
    production. furthermore, to improve quality, we offer guidance and
    audits, including assessment by the top management, at workplaces
    in japan and overseas, and also provide business partners with
    guidance for quality improvement. moreover, from fiscal year 2012,          performance evaluation of sic-dpfs with
                                                                                engine bench test
    we will kick off and promote ongoing improvement activities (3 nai
                                                                                we are updating the engine and evaluation
    plus activities) under the initiative of the quality assurance division     system to meet the latest exhaust emission
    for the purpose of increasing customer satisfaction (cs) with an            regulations.
    emphasis on quality.
    cs: customer satisfaction


    quality management system
    in our electronics-related operation, since the acquisition of iso 9001 certification in march 1995, we have
    been actively upgrading our quality management systems on an ongoing basis. we are striving to offer
    products that exceed the expectations and needs of our customers. in our ceramics-related operation, we
    obtained iso/ts 16949 certification, an international standard for quality management in the automobile
    industry, in japan in october 2003. this certification was also obtained at global manufacturing locations in
    fiscal year 2006. we are building a system to offer high-quality products at a global level, upgrading the level
    of quality.


    measures for enhancement of customer satisfaction
    the sales division in charge of customer relations gathers various types of information on technologies and
    complaints and informs each division about them. each operation reviews the level of customer satisfaction,
    which they check on a regular basis in training camps. measures to enhance customer satisfaction are taken
    under the leadership of the management. for the customer support that we provide primarily through the
    sales division and our state-of-the-art products, we have gained a high reputation from our customers
    including manufacturers of electrical equipment, semiconductors and automobiles.
                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 46




53889312409.indd   46                                                                                                     2012/10/23   17:57:07

    development of human resources that sustain quality
    so that we can benefit from the experience of our workers and develop human resources capable of creating
    new value, we offer systematic education to all employees.
        going forward, the focus will be on four ibi-techno capabilities in management of business, management
    of technology, total productive management, management capabillity, in accordance with the tpm approach
    for developing human resources that practice the customers-first principle. determining the degree of progress
    at each step, we aim to boost skills and motivation. accurately reviewing the ever-evolving value of our
    business activities from the customers’perspective based on the level of customer satisfaction, we aspire to
    be an enterprise that continues to grow.



    tpm activities
    since 1989, ibiden has been implementing tpm activities as initiatives to improve the company’           s system.
    currently, with market trends as well as business operations at overseas production bases in mind, we are
    undertaking activities aimed at“total productive management enhanced globally as well as at each
    production base.”a characteristic of ibiden’     s activities is that they are based on the tpm activities which
    contribute to business. to be specific, we promote the following three activities as the pillars.
    (1) loss prevention activity in which all divisions participate, aimed at the acquisition of cost-competitiveness
    (2) base activity that facilitates improvement activities in which all participate through direct observation
    (3) human resources development activity that enables participants to acquire skills and the appropriate
         frame of mind for engaging in the above-mentioned activities correctly, uniformly and effectively
        another characteristic is that we promote tpm activities according to the same procedures both in japan
    and overseas so that excellent cases in japan and abroad can be instantly reflected in company-wide
    activities. to assist in tpm activities, a tpm global conference is held annually to showcase best practices in
    the group. since fiscal year 2002, personnel from overseas group companies have attended this conference.
    in fiscal year 2012, we will kick off the tpm activity at ibiden electronics malaysia, aiming to increase the level
    of facilities and human resources based on the 5s in a similar manner used for autonomous maintenance.



    customer satisfaction and quality improvement initiatives chart


                                                            customer satisfaction
                                             offering safe, reassuring and eco-friendly products

                                                            p                                            s
                                    d                                                                                              d
        customers-
        first activities
                                         design and                          quality                  product-making
                                                                                                                                           p=plan
                                                                                                                                           s=standard
                                         developing                                                                                        d=do
                                                                                                                                           c=check
                                    c                                                                                              c       a=action


                                diligent
                                                            a                                             a                            tpm activity
                                                                                                                               (total productive management)
                              quality care
                                from the
                               beginning                        ems                               qms
                                                            (environmental                         (quality
                                                             management                          management
                                                                system)                            system)
                                                                             core system

        systems                                isms
                                             (information                                                            ic
        supporting                              security
                                             management
                                                                                                              (internal control)

        customers-                              system)
                                                                               ohsas
        first practices                                                       (occupational
                                                                             health and safety
                                                                               assessment
                                                                                  series)


                                                                                     corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 47




53889312409.indd   47                                                                                                                                          2012/10/23   17:57:08

    corporate responsibility goal summary
    upon the revision of the ibiden group charter of behavior, from fiscal year 2011, we have deployed the revised
    csr activities.
                                        the list of targets and results for this fiscal year has changed from the previous fiscal year as we restarted
    our discussions regarding medium-term target, issues to be addressed, and item for implementation plan and
    targets based on the revised charter of behavior.

                                                                                                                                                 item implemented in fiscal                    item for implementation
                                                             ibiden group
                                                                                                      medium-term targets                       year 2011 and management                       plan and targets in fiscal
                                                           charter of behavior
                                                                                                                                                    indices for outcomes                              year 2012
                                                                                                understanding laws and regulations              grasped the latest law revision               establishing a system of
                                                                                                of each country or region and                   information and checked the status            compliance.
                                                                                                monitoring the compliance.                      of the response of each division.             monitoring compliance with
     article 1: compliance with laws, regulations,




                                                                                                                                                implemented in-advance application            laws and regulations.
                                                                   we comply with laws,                                                         for meeting with competitors and
                                                                   regulations and ethical                                                      took the minutes.
                                                                   requirements of the
                                                                   countries and regions        making a clarifying statement about             carried out procedure for important           ensuring standardized manuals
                                                                   where its business           corporate rules and ethics to                   laws and regulations.                         to be the latest version, and
                                                                   operations are based.        educate employees, and monitoring               revised the standards for employee            improving the issues.
                                                                   we work against              the compliance.                                 behavior and implemented the                  monitoring compliance with the
                                                                   corruption in all its                                                        training for all employees                    standards for employee
                       and ethics




                                                                   forms, and carry out                                                         (participation rate: 94%).                    behavior.
                                                                   open and fair corporate                                                      continuously implemented guidance             promoting educational activities
                                                                   activities with the                                                          and support for the domestic and              to improve understanding.
                                                                   intention of becoming a                                                      overseas group companies to
                                                                   company that enjoys                                                          operate rules and guidelines.
                                                                   the confidence of the        eliminating anti-social forces (such   collected information to eliminate                     continuously collecting
                                                                   international community.     as organized crime and corporate       anti-social forces.                                    information to eliminate
                                                                   we also protect and          democrat) from the group’   s business                                                        anti-social forces.
                                                                   properly manage              fields, and operating a system to                                                             verifying internal control over
                                                                   personal and customer        prevent faults.                                                                               financial reporting.
                                                                   data and other types of
                                                                   information.                 making a clarifying statement and               monitored and prevented                       preventing information leakage
                                                                                                sharing how to protect and manage               unauthorized computer abuse.                  from mobile devices.
                                                                                                information of the group, and                   installed antivirus software on all of        establishing rules for handling
                                                                                                monitoring the compliance.                      the pcs, and restricted network               rule customer documents and
                                                                                                                                                connectivity.                                 confidential information.
                                                                                                disclosing corporate information                improved content of business report           promoting standardization and
                                                                                                comprehensibly and fairly with the accurate     and notice of the annual meeting of           control of disclosure.
                                                                                                control. in addition, building up a system to   shareholders.
               article 2: development together with stakeholders




                                                                                                provide clear explanation rapidly to the        disclosed information required in
                                                                                                society in case of problem occurrence.          accordance with the gri guidelines.
                                                                                                regularly arranging meetings to                 held a joint community meeting on risk        maintaining communication
                                                                                                exchange opinions with employees                communication at the ogaki plant.             between labor and management.
                                                                                                and local communities, and sharing              maintained regular dialogues between          clarifying policy of communication
                                                                                                the proposition and taking the                  labor and management, and                     with local communities.
                                                                   we develop together          measures.                                       implementing the measures.
                                                                   with our stakeholders,
                                                                                                conveying our policy to suppliers               established the csr guidelines and held       upgrading the level of supply
                                                                   so we enhance the
                                                                                                and building up a system to                     the briefing meeting.                         chain csr management.
                                                                   transparency of
                                                                                                implement csr management with                   surveyed the status of compliance with        monitoring compliance with the
                                                                   management and build
                                                                                                them.                                           the csr guidelines, and conducted the         csr guidelines.
                                                                   a trustworthy
                                                                                                                                                confirmation with a visit.
                                                                   relationship through
                                                                   communication. we also       establishing philosophy, system and             revised social contribution rules,            developing social contribution
                                                                   actively engage in           domain of social contribution                   and conducting social contribution            programs in cooperation with
                                                                   community-based              activities, and encouraging                     activities based on the revision.             local communities.
                                                                   activities that contribute   cooperation with local communities              built a social contribution program           establishing youth development
                                                                   to society as a good         and voluntary social participation of           in cooperation and collaboration
                                                                   corporate citizen.                                                                                                         program based on employees
                                                                                                employees.                                      with stakeholders.
                                                                                                                                                provided information to improve               participation.
                                                                                                                                                awareness of employees volunteer.
                                                                                                from the perspective of risk                    operated the risk management                  clarifying (initial)
                                                                                                management, preparing a system to               subcommittee, and promoted the activities     implementation items and
                                                                                                report the management layer                     to reduce significant risk items.             corporate structure in case of
                                                                                                promptly and to minimize damages                improved the level of system to develop       disaster.
                                                                                                including to take preventive                    and maintain emergency contact network        conducting risk management
                                                                                                measures in case of an emergency                groupwide as well as to promptly report the   related to environment & health
                                                                                                occurrence.                                     occurred problem to the management layer.     and safety.
                                                                                             properly monitoring customer         conducted reviews of customer        developing the next medium-
                                                                   we provide customer       satisfaction and operating a system satisfaction through customer-        term management plan.
     article 3: providing




                                                                                             to implement the pdca cycle.         related processes.                   monitoring customer
      customer delight




                                                                   delight, so we have a
                                                                   good understanding of                                          implemented analysis of the external satisfaction, and extracting the
                                                                   social trends, future                                          evaluation and extraction of issues  issues.
                                                                   needs and develop. we                                          to carry out improvement activities.
                                                                   provide safe and secure * additionally we are addressing with the following targets: monitor of market demands, challenges to new
                                                                   products and services to    fields, and reform and improvement of existing fields.
                                                                   maximize our customer’  s
                                                                   satisfaction by growing
                                                                   ibi-techno.




                                                                                                                                                     corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 48




53889312409.indd                                                      48                                                                                                                                                   2012/10/23   17:57:08

                                                                                                                                            item implemented in fiscal                          item for implementation
                                                 ibiden group
                                                                                           medium-term targets                             year 2011 and management                             plan and targets in fiscal
                                               charter of behavior
                                                                                                                                               indices for outcomes                                    year 2012
                                                                                    reflecting the group charter of behavior revised the ibiden group charter                                  aggregating basic information
                                                                                    and the guidelines to the implementation of behavior, and promoted it                                      and visualizing challenges.
                                                                                    items of the group companies, and            groupwide.
                                                                                    localizing it to reflect the characteristics
                                                                                    of local management with deepening
     article 4: management based on




                                                                                    mutual understanding of norms, culture
                                                                                    and customs of each country or region.
                                                       we manage our group          respecting basic labor rights as international        shared information regarding      building a platform for
                                                       based on global              norms, and improving the working condition            compliance and labor issues in    personnel system.
              global standards




                                                       standards. we respect        and environment properly according to the             terms of consolidated management,
                                                       human rights and other       circumstances such as rules and regulations           and implemented the
                                                       international norms of       of each country and region.                           improvements.
                                                       behavior. also, we
                                                                                    familiarizing employees with top                      revised the standards for employee behavior,    instilling management
                                                       respect culture and
                                                                                    management’   s basic posture on corporate            and notified it to all employees.               philosophy and the ibiden
                                                       customs in each country
                                                                                    philosophy, the charter of behavior and the           posted the revised charter of behavior and      way.
                                                       or region concerned
                                                                                    standards for employee behavior.                      standards for employee behavior on the website.
                                                       when carrying out our
                                                       corporate activity.          establishing internal and external information        set up a compliance counter for suppliers. operating a compliance
                                                                                    gathering counter that is secured anonymity,          improved and revised operation rules of    counter, and reporting the
                                                                                    protection and non prejudice of                       compliance counter in the main             consensus of issues.
                                                                                    whistleblowers, and formalizing it.                   production subsidiaries.
                                                                                    conducting and documenting the following              improved systems, rules and           establishing an internal audit system
                                                                                    process: audit of the status of effects, extraction   guidelines to conduct internal audit. according to company size.
                                                                                    of issues, indication of measures, and                                                      following up correction of matters
                                                                                    implementation of improvement activities.                                                   pointed out in audits.
                                                                                    operating a eco-friendly system in                    revised green procurement guidelines and             improving eco-friendly design
                                                                                    product lifecycle (procurement,                       established an eco-friendly system of chemical       as a system.
                                                                                    design, production, use and                           substances management.                               managing information of
                                                                                    disposal).                                            considered an eco-friendly design system             material and energy at all
                                                                                                                                          responding to global warming and resource risk.      stages of production cycle.
                                                                                  continuously reducing environmental                     developed design criteria for energy-saving, and     visualizing issues of efficiency in
                                                                                  burdens and costs by striving to                        laterally deployed the energy saving improvement. the use/supply of energy.
           article 5: harmony with nature




                                                                                  develop innovative technologies and                     developed energy management criteria of facilities.
                                                       we harmonize with          products for a low-carbon society as                    carried out repair works for the hirose power plant.
                                                       nature in all areas of our wall as to make energy-saving                           reduced co2 emissions per production unit
                                                       corporate activities. we improvements in production activities.                    (reduction of 17% compared to fiscal year 2008).
                                                       manage to develop
                                                                                  continuously implementing cyclical use of               established a resource recycling system. reducing waste allocated to
                                                       technologies to achieve
                                                                                  resources and cost reduction by                         reduced the amount of water              external treatment.
                                                       good balance between
                                                                                  promoting development and improvement                   withdrawal rate (reduction of 23%
                                                       the environment and
                                                                                  of 3r (reduce, reuse, recycle) technology.              compared to fiscal year 2008)
                                                       business, and we
                                                       provide environmentally establishing management systems                            operated and revised the system to research          implementing visual control of
                                                       friendly products and      such as chemical management,                            and evaluate the banned and controlled               chemicals used.
                                                       services by promoting      pollution prevention management                         substances (green procurement guidelines).           visualizing the status of
                                                       energy and resource        and disaster prevention                                 expanded the system of chemical                      pipe-end management.
                                                       conservation activities.   management, and enforcing risk                          management to i corporation by domestic
                                                                                  mitigation activities continuously.                     affiliated companies and overseas production
                                                                                                                                          companies.
                                                                                                                                          implemented environment-related audits for
                                                                                                                                          important suppliers.
                                                                                    determining the specific activities of conducted reforestation activities,                                 creating the next activities program
                                                                                    biodiversity, and contributing                s forest.”
                                                                                                                           “ibiden’                                                            for“ibiden’ s forest.”
                                                                                    actively to nature conservation.                                                                           promoting environmental protection
                                                                                                                                                                                               from the point of view of biodiversity.
                                                                                    preparing work environment to improve                 promoted measures to reduce overtime work. improving a work-at-home
                                                                                    productivity and diversification of employment        conducted interviews in both female        system and shorter working
                                                                                    formats, and improving work environment and           employees and managers to promote more     hours for childcare.
           article 6: attractive and vibrant company




                                                                                    institution for employees to work on with ease.       female employees.
                                                                                    clarifying what type of human                         introduced an e-learning system as an                creating succession plans.
                                                       we aim to become an          resources and skills should be                        environment able to provide skill development
                                                       attractive and vibrant       needed by occupation or grade, and                    training that employees are motivated to take
                                                       company on the basis of      enhancing the career development                      voluntarily.
                                                       fair, equitable and result   activities.                                           enhanced personal development contents that
                                                       oriented employee                                                                  meet each division’s needs through ipm activities.
                                                       evaluation personnel
                                                                                    establishing and maintaining an        operated an evaluation system based on reviewing a management-by-
                                                       system. we aim to have
                                                                                    evaluation and compensation system management by objectives, and promoted objectives system.
                                                       a safe and comfortable
                                                                                    for fair appraisal and fair treatment. communication between superiors and
                                                       working environment.
                                                                                                                           subordinates by holding regular meetings.
                                                       we create a rewarding
                                                       corporate culture that       operating an occupational safety and                  implemented continuous improvement                   visualizing health and safety risk.
                                                       the employee can             health system to prevent work-                        based on workplace risk assessment to                promoting committees, safety
                                                       respect for each             related accidents in all stages from                  prevent industrial accidents.                        patrols and activities to foresee
                                                       diversity, and fully         planning to maintenance of facility.                  activated progress and understanding of              potential accidents and hazards
                                                       exercise their skills and                                                          workplace health and safety activities.              (hiyari‒hatto activity).
                                                       abilities.
                                                                                    working to improve health of mind                     conducted health promotion programs (including       promoting mental health and
                                                                                    and body of employees.                                motivational program of developing exercise          the 100 health plan.
                                                                                                                                          habits) according to the 100 health plan.            promoting maintenance and
                                                                                                                                          input all employees’data into the e‒health check     improvement of the working
                                                                                                                                          system, and analyzed the data for organization.                                  s
                                                                                                                                                                                               environment (based on ibiden’
                                                                                                                                                                                               safety standards).


                                                                                                                                                corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 49




53889312409.indd                                          49                                                                                                                                                                   2012/10/23   17:57:08

    corporate information (as of march 31, 2012)

      company outline
    trade name:             ibiden co., ltd.
    established:            november 25, 1912
    capital:                ¥64,152 million
    representative:         hiroki takenaka, president & ceo
    number of employees: consolidated 11,374 non-consolidated 3,385
    office and plants
    head office:            2-1, kanda-cho, ogaki city, gifu 503-8604, japan tel: 0584-81-3111
    branches:               tokyo, osaka
    plants:                 gifu prefecture (ogaki, ogaki central, aoyanagi, gama, ogaki-kita, godo);
                            aichi prefecture (kinuura); tokyo research laboratory
    number of subsidiaries: consolidated subsidiaries: 43 (17 in japan, 26 overseas)(as of september 30, 2012)

      main business lines
     business segments                                      main products/business areas
     electronics operation printed wiring boards, package substrates, and pattern design for printed wiring boards
                             environment-related ceramics products, graphite specialty products, fine ceramics
     ceramics operation
                             products, ceramics fiber
     housing materials housing equipment, melamine decorative laminates and decorative laminates related
     operation               products
     c o n s t r u c t i o n design and construction of civil engineering works including slop protection construction
     operation               and landscape gardening, as well as of environmental facilities
                             synthetic resin processing, agriculture, livestock, and fishery processing, oil products sales,
     other operations
                             provision of information and other services

      change in business results
     net sales                                                operating income                                      ordinary income
       （billion yen）                                        （billion yen）                                          （billion yen）
        500                                                  100                                                    100
                   413.5
        400                                                    80                                                     80
                                                                        67.2                                                   67.5
                            309.3           304.9   300.8
        300                         274.2                      60                                                     60
        200                                                    40                             33.8                    40                               33.5
                                                                                      21.2                                                      19.4
        100                                                    20              10.5
                                                                                                     15.5             20                                       16.2
                                                                                                                                       3.4
            0                                                    0                                                      0
                   2007 2008 2009 2010 2011（fy）                        2007 2008 2009 2010 2011（fy）                           2007 2008 2009 2010 2011（fy）

     net income                                               net sales composition by business segments
        （billion yen）
          60                                                  other 7.0%                       electronics 56.9%
          50       46.0                                       construction 4.1%

          40                                                  housing
                                                              materials 6.9%
          30
                                            19.7
          20
                                    11.8            10.6
          10
                            △8.7
           0
                                                              ceramics 25.1%
                   2007 2008 2009 2010 2011（fy）


      disclosure of financial information
    ibiden takes steps to disclose information at appropriate times to share-                                                website for shareholders and investors
    holders and investors in a fair, accurate, and easy-to-understand manner.                                            http://www.ibiden.com/ir/index.html
    pursuant to the timely disclosure rule of the tokyo stock exchange, our
    information disclosure standards require the disclosure of information rel-
    evant to our operations, scope of business, and assets that could signifi-
    cantly affect investment judgments, as well as any changes or suspension
    of important corporate information that has already been published. our
    policy is to disclose such information proactively and fairly. we will also
    disclose corporate information that could significantly influence invest-
    ment judgments even if the timely disclosure rule does not apply, as ac-
    curately, promptly and appropriately as possible.
                                                                                                                       top page of ir website


                                                                                             corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 50




53889312409.indd       50                                                                                                                                             2012/10/23   17:57:09

      main subsidiaries and affiliates

                         company- japan                             location                                main business
     ibiden electronics industries co., ltd.          ogaki, gifu                               manufacture of electronic substrates
     ibiden greentec co., ltd.                        ogaki, gifu                               design and construction of special works
     ibiden chemicals co., ltd.                       ogaki, gifu                               manufacture and sales of chemical products
     ibiken co., ltd.                                 ogaki, gifu                               sale of housing materials
     ibiden graphite co., ltd.                        ogaki, gifu                               manufacture of graphite products
     ibiden industries co., ltd.                      ogaki, gifu                               sale of products and equipments
     tak co., ltd.                                    ogaki, gifu                               information services
     ibiden jushi co., ltd.                           ikeda-cho, ibi-gun, gifu                  manufacture of foamed-resin products
                                                                                                processing of agricultural and
     ibiden bussan co., ltd.                          ogaki, gifu
                                                                                                marine products
                                                                                                design and construction of
     ibiden engineering co., ltd.                     ogaki, gifu
                                                                                                mechanical facilities
     ibitech co., ltd.                                ogaki, gifu                               design of printed circuit boards
     ibiden career techno corp.                       ogaki, gifu                               temporary staffing services
     ibiden kenso co., ltd.                           ogaki, gifu                               sale of housing materials


                        company- overseas                           location                                main business
                                                                                                investment and finance in u.s.a., research
     ibiden u.s.a. corp.                              california, u.s.a.
                                                                                                and product planning, sales of products
     micro mech, inc.                                 massachusetts, u.s.a.                     manufacture of graphite products
     ibiden canada inc.                               ontario, canada                           sales of products
                                                      hoofddorp,
     ibiden european holdings b.v.                                                              investment and finance in europe
                                                      the netherlands
                                                      hoofddorp,
     ibiden europe b.v.                                                                         sales of products
                                                      the netherlands
     ibiden hungary kft.                              neumann jános, hungary                    manufacture of ceramic products
     ibiden dpf france s.a.s.                         courtenay, france                         manufacture of ceramic products
     ibiden porzellanfabrik frauenthal gmbh           steiermark, austria                       manufacture of ceramic products
     ibiden france s.a.s.                             paris, france                             sales of ceramic products
     ibiden deutschland gmbh                          stuttgart, germany                        sales of ceramic products
     ibiden uk ltd.                                   london, uk                                sales of ceramic products
     ibiden philippines, inc.                         batangas, philippines                     manufacture of electronics substrates
     ibiden electronics (beijing) co., ltd.           beijing, p.r.c.                           manufacture of electronics substrates
     ibiden electronics (shanghai) co., ltd.          shanghai, p.r.c.                          sales of products
     ibiden electronics technology (shanghai) co., ltd. shanghai, p.r.c.                        design of electronics substrates
     ibiden asia holdings pte., ltd.                  singapore                                 investment and finance in asia
     ibiden singapore pte. ltd.                       singapore                                 sales of electronics substrates
     ibiden electronics malaysia sdn. bhd.            penang, malaysia                          manufacture of electronics substrates
     ibiden (malaysia) sdn. bhd.                      penang, malaysia                          manufacture of electronics substrates
     ibiden graphite korea co., ltd.                  pohang-si, korea                          manufacture of graphite products
     ibiden korea co., ltd.                           seoul, korea                              sales of products
     ibiden taiwan co., ltd.                          kaohsiung, taiwan                         sales of products

    the company had 43 consolidated subsidiaries including the above companies as of september 30, 2012.




                                                                           corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 51




53889312409.indd   51                                                                                                                2012/10/23   17:57:09

      board of directors/organization
                                                     board of directors                                               audit division
      board of directors
                                                     board of corporate auditors                                  csr promotion division
    representative director      yoshifumi iwata                                    strategic corporate
                                                                                                                                                      office of the president
                                                                                    planning operation
    representative director      hiroki takenaka                                                                                                          finance division
                                                                                                                                                           legal division

    representative director      mafumi kunishima                                                                                                 enterprises administrative division
                                                                                                                                                     human resource division

    representative director      hironobu kodaka                                                                                                      general affairs division
                                                                                      manufacturing
                                                                                                                                                       ipm planning division
    director                     katsumi mabuchi                                   promotion operation
                                                                                                                                                      tpm promotion division

    director                     shigeyasu kurita                                                                                                 quality management division
                                                                                                                                                         purchasing division

    director                     toshiaki matsuo                                                                                                    global purchasing division
                                                                                                                                                 manufacturing planning division
    director                     keiichi sakashita                                 energy & environment
                                                                                                                                                  environment & safety division
                                                                                        operation
                                                                                                                                                environment technology division
    director                     yoichi kuwayama                                                                                                      energy control division
                                                                                                                                                             ogaki plant
    director                     sotaro ito
                                                                                                                                                        ogaki central plant

    director (outsider)          yoshitoshi toyoda                                                                                                         aoyanagi plant
                                                                                                                                                             gama plant

    director (outsider)          toshio yonezawa                                                                                                           ogaki-kita plant

                                                                                                                                                             godo plant
                                                                                                                                                            kinuura plant

                                                                                      r&d operation                                               intellectual property division
      auditors                                                                                                                                   electronic development division

                                                                                                                                                    pwb development division
    standing auditor             yoshio hirabayashi
                                                                                                                                                  ceramic development division

    standing auditor             yutaka kawase                                     production engineering
                                                                                                                                               new product development division

                                                                                                                                                     facility design division
                                                                                        operation
    auditor (outsider)           tadao kuribayashi                                                                                              production engineering division
                                                                                                                                                  facility development division
    auditor (outsider)           yasuhiro kumagai
                                                                                    package operation                                                    planning division

    auditor (outsider)           shigenori shiota                                                                       pkg unit                business administration division
                                                                                                                                                   quality assurance division
                                                                                                                        csp unit                business administration division
                                                                                                                                                   quality assurance division
      executive officers                                                                                      production management division     ogaki manufacturing division
                                                                                                                                               ogaki central manufacturing division

    chairman of the board        yoshifumi iwata                                                                                                 gama manufacturing division
                                                                                                                                                    ipi manufacturing division
    president & ceo              hiroki takenaka                                                                                               manufacturing engineering division
                                                                                                                                                   facility maintenance division
    executive vice president     mafumi kunishima                                                                                              ipm/environment & safety promotion division

                                                                                                                     engineering unit                  engineering division 1
    executive vice president     hironobu kodaka
                                                                                                                                                       engineering division 2

    executive managing officer   katsumi mabuchi                                                                                                       engineering division 3

                                                                                      pwb operation           business management division               planning division
    executive managing officer   shigeyasu kurita                                                                                               business management division
                                                                                                                                                       engineering division
    executive managing officer   takayuki takagi                                                                                                   quality assurance division
                                                                                                             production management division       product development group
    senior managing officer      toshiaki matsuo
                                                                                                                                                      process design group

    senior managing officer      keiichi sakashita                                                                                              aoyanagi manufacturing division
                                                                                                                                                    ieb manufacturing division

    senior managing officer      yoichi kuwayama                                                                                                   iem manufacturing division

                                                                                                                                                     ipm promotion division
    managing officer             sotaro ito                                           ecp operation                                                      planning division
                                                                                                                                               heavy duty & dpf sales & marketing division
    managing officer             koji kawashima                                                               business management division         sales & marketing division

    managing officer             katsumi sagisaka                                                                                                          design division
                                                                                                                                                  process development division

    managing officer             yoshiyuki iwata                                                                                                    quality assurance division
                                                                                                              production management division    cost restructuring promotion division
    managing officer             takeshi aoki                                                                          nch project
                                                                                                                                                       imp promotion division
                                                                                                                                                        manufacturing division
    managing officer             masahiko ikuta                                                                european enterprise division                       ihu

                                                                                                                                                                 idfs
    managing officer             tsuyoshi nishida
                                                                                       afp operation                                                              ipf

    managing officer             kazushige ohno                                                                                                         manufacturing division

                                                                                      fgm operation                                                   business planning division
    managing officer             kozo kodama                                                                                                            manufacturing division


    managing officer             koji shimato                                                                                                               tokyo branch

                                                                                                                                                            osaka branch



                        （as of september 30, 2012）
                                                                                               corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 52




53889312409.indd   52                                                                                                                                                               2012/10/23   17:57:09

    gri index table

    in formulating the ibiden csr report 2012, we referred to the gri* sustainability reporting guidelines 2006
    (3rd edition: g3). this provides an objective measure of the extent to which the guidelines and other gri
    reporting framework elements have been applied. we evaluated this year’     s report as achieving application
    level b by self-assessment.
    * gri (global reporting initiative): an independent institution whose mission is to develop and disseminate
      globally applicable sustainability reporting guidelines.
                          report application level                              c                     c+                                        b                   b+                                          a                   a+

                                                              report on                                                           report on all criteria
                                                    out put



                                                              1.1                                                                 listed for level c plus:
                          g3 profile                                                                                                                                                           same as requirement for
                                                              2.1-2.10                                                            1.2
                          disclosure                                                                                                                                                           level b
                                                              3.1-3.8, 3.10-3.12                                                  3.9, 3.13
                                                              4.1-4.4, 4.14-4.15                                                  4.5-4.13, 4.16-4.17




                                                                                                      report externally assured




                                                                                                                                                                   report externally assured




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    report externally assured
    standard disclosure




                                                    out put




                          g3 disclosures                                                                                          management approach                                          management approach
                          on management                       not required                                                        disclosures for each                                         disclosed for each
                          approach                                                                                                indicator category                                           indicator category


                                                                                                                                                                                               respond on each core and
                                                              report fully on a minimum                                           report fully on a minimum of
                                                                                                                                                                                               sector supplement*
                          g3 performance                      of any 10 performance                                               any 20 performance indicators,
                                                    out put




                                                                                                                                                                                               indicator with due regard to
                          indicators & sector                 indicators,including at                                             at least one from each of:
                                                                                                                                                                                               the materiality principle by
                          supplement                          least one from each of:                                             economic, environment,
                                                                                                                                                                                               either: a) reporting on the
                          performance indicators              social, economic, and                                               human rights, labor, society,
                                                                                                                                                                                               indicator or b) explaining
                                                              environment.                                                        product responsibility.
                                                                                                                                                                                               the reason for its omission.
                                                                                                                                                                                               *sector supplement in final version


                                                                                                                                                         corporate social responsibility report 2012
                                                                   gri indicator
                                                                                                                                                          pages                                       corresponding topics
        1. strategy and analysis
                          statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization                                                                   p2                                 top message
                      1.1 (e.g., ceo, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of                                                                                              consolidated medium-term management plan
                          sustainability to the organization and its strategy.                                                                             p4-5                                 ibiden group charter of behavior
                                                                                                                                                           p5-6                                 csr policy and scope of activity
                      1.2 description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities.                                                                           p11-12                                risk management
                                                                                                                                                          p48-49                                corporate responsibility goal summary


        2. organizational profile
                      2.1 name of the organization.                                                                                                         p50                                 corporate information
                      2.2 primary brands, products, and/or services.                                                                                        p50                                 corporate information
                              operational structure of the organization, including main divisions,
                      2.3                                                                                                                                 p50-52                                corporate information
                              operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures.
                                                  s headquarters.
                      2.4 location of organization’                                                                                                         p50                                 corporate information
                          number of countries where the organization operates, and names of
                      2.5 countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the                                                   p51                                 corporate information
                          sustainability issues covered in the report.
                                                                                                                                                                                                basic approach to corporate
                      2.6 nature of ownership and legal form.                                                                                                p9                                 governance
                                                                                                                                                            p50                                 corporate information
                              markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and
                      2.7                                                                                                                                 p50-51                                corporate information
                              types of customers/beneficiaries).
                          scale of the reporting organization, including:
                          • number of employees;
                      2.8 • net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations);                                 p50                                 corporate information
                          • total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); and
                          • quantity of products or services provided.
                              significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including:
                              • the location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; and
                      2.9                                                                                                                                    p3                                 editorial policy
                              • changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation,
                                maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations).
               2.10 awards received in the reporting period.                                                                                                 p7                                 external corporate evaluation




                                                                                                                                        corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 53




53889312409.indd                 53                                                                                                                                                                                               2012/10/23                    17:57:09

                                                                                                                    corporate social responsibility report 2012
                                                  gri indicator
                                                                                                                     pages            corresponding topics
     3. report parameters
     report profile
         3.1 reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided.                                   p3       editorial policy
         3.2 date of most recent previous report (if any).                                                             p3       editorial policy
         3.3 reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.)                                                                  p3       editorial policy
         3.4 contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents.                                     cover page   contact point
     report scope and boundary
               process for defining report content, including:
               • determining materiality;                                                                              p3       editorial policy
         3.5
               • prioritizing topics within the report; and                                                            p5       csr policy and scope of activity
               • identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report.
               boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities,
         3.6                                                                                                           p3       editorial policy
               joint ventures, suppliers).
         3.7 state any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report.                                    p3       editorial policy
             basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities,
         3.8 outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect                                            na
             comparability from period to period and/or between organizations.
                                                                                                                                editorial policy
             data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including
                                                                                                                                each calculation method is
         3.9 assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the                                          p3
                                                                                                                                described in the margin of graph.
             compilation of the indicators and other information in the report.
                                                                                                                                ＜p28：co2 emission＞
                                                                                                                                editorial policy
            explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided                                              major indicators are described
            in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/                                           retroactively to enable the comparison.
       3.10                                                                                                            p3
            acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business,                                                     set of goals compared to base year of
            measurement methods).                                                                                               fiscal year 2008 especially concerning
                                                                                                                                environmental indicators (p28 and others).
               significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope,
       3.11                                                                                                            p3       editorial policy
               boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report.
     gri content index
       3.12 table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in the report.                               p54-62      gri index table
     assurance
            policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report.
            if not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report,
       3.13
            explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. also explain the
            relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s).


     4. governance, commitments, and engagement
     governance
             governance structure of the organization, including committees under the                                 p10       diagram of corporate governance system
         4.1 highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting                                  p12       structure for advancing risk management
             strategy or organizational oversight.                                                                    p13       structure for promoting compliance program
               indicate whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if                  board of directors/
         4.2                                                                                                          p52
                                                         s management and the reasons for this arrangement).
               so, their function within the organization’                                                                      organization
               for organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members                               summary of the existing
         4.3                                                                                                          p10
               of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members.                                corporate governance systems
                                                                                                                       p9       diagram of corporate governance system
               mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations
         4.4                                                                                                                    labor and management cooperation to
               or direction to the highest governance body.                                                           p21
                                                                                                                                create a worker-friendly workplace
             linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body,
                                                                                                                                compensation of directors
         4.5 senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the                              p11
                                                                                                                                and corporate auditors
                         s performance (including social and environmental performance).
             organization’
                                                                                                                                summary of the existing
                                                                                                                      p10
         4.6 processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided.                    corporate governance systems
                                                                                                                      p15       compliance by directors
               process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance                summary of the existing
         4.7                                                                                                          p10
               body for guiding the organization’ s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics.                     corporate governance systems
             internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct,
             and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social
                                                                                                                       p4       corporate philosophy
             performance and the status of their implementation.
         4.8                                                                                                                    ibiden group charter of
             explain the degree to which these:                                                                        p5
                                                                                                                                behavior
             • are applied across the organization in different regions and department/units; and
             • relate to internationally agreed standards.



                                                                                                corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 54




53889312409.indd   54                                                                                                                                              2012/10/23   17:57:10

                                                                                                                   corporate social responsibility report 2012
                                                  gri indicator
                                                                                                                    pages            corresponding topics
               procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’ s
               identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance,
         4.9                                                                                                         p5-6      csr policy and scope of activity
               including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with
               internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles.
                                                                                                                               assessment by third-party
            processes for evaluating the highest governance body’ s own performance,                                  p8
                                                                                                                               organizations and our actions
       4.10 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social
                                                                                                                               summary of the existing
            performance.                                                                                             p10
                                                                                                                               corporate governance systems
     commitments to external initiatives
               explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle
       4.11                                                                                                        p11-12      risk management
               is addressed by the organization.
                                                                                                                               csr policy and scope of activity
               externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles,                         p5
       4.12                                                                                                                    assessment by third-party
               or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses.
                                                                                                                      p8       organizations and our actions
            memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/
            international advocacy organizations in which the organization:
            • has positions in governance bodies;
       4.13                                                                                                          p5-6      csr policy and scope of activity
            • participates in projects or committees;
            • provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or
            • views membership as strategic.
     stakeholder engagement
       4.14 list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization.                                                  p5-6      csr policy and scope of activity
                                                                                                                               dialogue and cooperation with
       4.15 basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage.                               p7
                                                                                                                               stakeholders
                                                                                                                      p7       dialogue and cooperation with stakeholders
               approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of
       4.16                                                                                                                    assessment by third-party
               engagement by type and by stakeholder group.                                                           p8
                                                                                                                               organizations and our actions
                                                                                                                               dialogue and cooperation with
                                                                                                                      p7
            key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder                                                  stakeholders
       4.17 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics                                    p8       assessment by third-party
            and concerns, including through its reporting.                                                                     organizations and our actions
                                                                                                                   p48-49
                                                                                                                               corporate responsibility goal summary


     5. management approach and performance indicators
     economic performance indicators
               disclosure on management approach
                                                                                                                               consolidated medium-term
               • goals and performance                                                                                p4
                                                                                                                               management plan
               • policy
                                                                                                                   p50-52      corporate information
               • additional contextual information
     aspect: economic performance
            direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs,
        ec1 employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained                               p50       corporate information
            earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments.
               financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the
        ec2
               organization’s activities due to climate change.
                                        s defined benefit plan obligations.
        ec3 coverage of the organization’                                                                                      [annual securities report p81-82]
        ec4 significant financial assistance received from government.
     aspect: market presence
               range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum
        ec5
               wage at significant locations of operation.
               policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at
        ec6                                                                                                        p16-17      csr management in the supply chain
               significant locations of operation.
                                                                                                                     p18       number of employee by business segment
               procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired
        ec7                                                                                                                    employment and development of human
               from the local community at locations of significant operation.                                     p19-20
                                                                                                                               resources
     aspect: indirect economic impacts
               development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided
        ec8                                                                                                        p40-45      social contribution
               primarily for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement.
        ec9 understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts.   p33-34      environmental accounting


     environmental performance indicators
               disclosure on management approach
                                                                                                                   p24-35      environmental management
               • goals and performance/ • policy/ • organizational responsibility
                                                                                                                   p48-49      corporate responsibility goal summary
               • training and awareness/ • monitoring and follow-up/ • additional contextual information

                                                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 55




53889312409.indd   55                                                                                                                                             2012/10/23   17:57:10

                                                                                                          corporate social responsibility report 2012
                                               gri indicator
                                                                                                           pages           corresponding topics
     aspect: materials
                                                                                                                      the ibiden group’ s material
       en1 materials used by weight or volume.                                                              p35
                                                                                                                      balance (input and output)
                                                                                                            p29       resource circulation
       en2 percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials.                                            the ibiden group’  s material
                                                                                                            p35
                                                                                                                      balance (input and output)
     aspect: energy
                                                                                                                      the ibiden group’ s material
       en3 direct energy consumption by primary energy source.                                              p35
                                                                                                                      balance (input and output)
                                                                                                                      the ibiden group’ s material
       en4 indirect energy consumption by primary source.                                                   p35
                                                                                                                      balance (input and output)
       en5 energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements.                                  p26-28      coping with climate change issues
                                                                                                          p26-28      coping with climate change issues
               initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and
       en6                                                                                                            environmental contribution
               services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives.            p32
                                                                                                                      through products
       en7 initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved.                     p26-28      coping with climate change issues
     aspect: water
       en8 total water withdrawal by source.                                                                p29       resource circulation
       en9 water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water.                                     p29       resource circulation
      en10 percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused.                                        p29       resource circulation
     aspect: biodiversity
               location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected                         understanding the influence
      en11                                                                                                  p31
               areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas.                                    on biodiversity
               description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity
      en12
               in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas.
                                                                                                                      understanding the influence
      en13 habitats protected or restored.                                                                  p31
                                                                                                                      on biodiversity
               strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on                                  understanding the influence
      en14                                                                                                  p31
               biodiversity.                                                                                          on biodiversity
               number of iucn red list species and national conservation list species
      en15
               with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk.
     aspect: emissions, effluents, and waste
                                                                                                                      the ibiden group’ s material
      en16 total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight.                                    p35
                                                                                                                      balance (input and output)
                                                                                                                      the ibiden group’ s material
      en17 other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight                                       p35
                                                                                                                      balance (input and output)
                                                                                                          p26-28      coping with climate change issues
      en18 initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved.                                    the ibiden group’   s material
                                                                                                            p35
                                                                                                                      balance (input and output)
      en19 emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight.                                                         na
                                                                                                                      the ibiden group’ s material
      en20 no, so, and other significant air emissions by type and weight.                                  p35
                                                                                                                      balance (input and output)
                                                                                                                      the ibiden group’ s material
      en21 total water discharge by quality and destination.                                                p35
                                                                                                                      balance (input and output)
                                                                                                                      the ibiden group’ s material
      en22 total weight of waste by type and disposal method.                                               p35
                                                                                                                      balance (input and output)
                                                                                                                      environmental data for individual
                                                                                                                      plants and group companies –
                                                                                                                      compliance management
      en23 total number and volume of significant spills.                                                 p36-39
                                                                                                                      * there have been no significant
                                                                                                                        spills. the impact on the
                                                                                                                        environment is minimal.
           weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed
      en24 hazardous under the terms of the basel convention annex i, ii, iii, and viii,                    p30       appropriate chemical control
           and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally.
           identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies
                                                                                    s
      en25 and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’
           discharges of water and runoff.




                                                                                        corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 56




53889312409.indd   56                                                                                                                             2012/10/23   17:57:10

                                                                                                            corporate social responsibility report 2012
                                               gri indicator
                                                                                                             pages           corresponding topics
     aspect: products and services
               initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and                              environmental contribution
      en26                                                                                                    p32
               extent of impact mitigation.                                                                             through products
               percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are
      en27
               reclaimed by category.
     aspect : compliance
                                                                                                                        environment and occupational
               monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary
      en28                                                                                                    p25       health and safety-related
               sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations.
                                                                                                                        laws and regulations
     aspect : transport
               significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials                 the ibiden group’ s material
      en29                                                                                                    p35
               used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce.                       balance (input and output)
     aspect : overall
      en30 total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type.                             p33-34      environmental accounting


     social performance indicators
     labor practices and decent work
               disclosure on management approach
                                                                                                            p18-23      human resource management
               • goals and performance/ • policy/ • organizational responsibility
                                                                                                            p48-49      corporate responsibility goal summary
               • training and awareness/ • monitoring and follow-up/ • additional contextual information
     aspect: employment
                                                                                                                        philosophy for human resource
        la1 total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region.                              p18
                                                                                                                        management and promotional structure
                                                                                                                        philosophy for human resource
        la2 total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region.                      p18
                                                                                                                        management and promotional structure
               benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to
        la3
               temporary or part-time employees, by major operations.
     aspect: labor/management relations
        la4 percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements.
               minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including
        la5
               whether it is specified in collective agreements.
     aspect: occupational health and safety
               percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and                   organization chart of occupational
        la6                                                                                                   p22
               safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs.               health and safety management
               rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and
        la7                                                                                                   p23       measures for safety
               number of workrelated fatalities by region.
            education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in
                                                                                                                        measures for safety
        la8 place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members                           p23
                                                                                                                        managing employee health
            regarding serious diseases.
                                                                                                                        occupational health and safety policy/
                                                                                                              p22       organization chart of occupational
        la9 health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions.
                                                                                                                        health and safety management
                                                                                                              p23       measures for safety
     aspect: training and education
      la10 average hours of training per year per employee by employee category.
               programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued                          philosophy for human resource
      la11                                                                                                    p18
               employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings.                                   management and promotional structure
                                                                                                                        employment and development
      la12 percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews.            p19-20
                                                                                                                        of human resources
     aspect: diversity and equal opportunity
               composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according                       respecting diverse work
      la13                                                                                                  p20-21
               to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity.                      styles
      la14 ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category.


     human rights
                                                                                                            p13-15      compliance
               disclosure on management approach                                                            p16-17      csr management in the supply chain
               • goals and performance/ • policy/ • organizational responsibility                            p19        respect for human rights
               • training and awareness/ • monitoring and follow-up/ • additional contextual information                corporate responsibility goal
                                                                                                            p48-49
                                                                                                                        summary


                                                                                          corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 57




53889312409.indd   57                                                                                                                                   2012/10/23   17:57:10

                                                                                                           corporate social responsibility report 2012
                                               gri indicator
                                                                                                            pages           corresponding topics
     aspect: investment and procurement practices
               percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include
        hr1
               human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening.
               percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone
        hr2                                                                                                p16-17      csr management in the supply chain
               screening on human rights and actions taken.
            total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning
        hr3 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the                         p13-15      compliance
            percentage of employees trained.
     aspect: non-discrimination
        hr4 total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken.                                 p13-15      compliance
     aspect: freedom of association and collective bargaining
            operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association                    p13-15      compliance
        hr5 and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to                     p16-17      csr management in the supply chain
            support these rights.                                                                           p19        respect for human rights
     aspect: child labor
                                                                                                           p13-15      compliance
               operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor,
        hr6                                                                                                p16-17      csr management in the supply chain
               and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor.
                                                                                                            p19        respect for human rights
     aspect: forced and compulsory labor
            operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or                    p13-15      compliance
        hr7 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced                      p16-17      csr management in the supply chain
            or compulsory labor.                                                                            p19        respect for human rights
     aspect: security practices
                                                                           s policies or
               percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’                               p13-15      compliance
        hr8
               procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations.              p16-17      csr management in the supply chain
     aspect: indigenous rights
               total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous
        hr9                                                                                                            na
               people and actions taken.


     society
                                                                                                           p11-12      risk management
               disclosure on management approach
                                                                                                           p13-15      compliance
               • goals and performance/ • policy/ • organizational responsibility
                                                                                                           p40-45      social contribution
               • training and awareness/ • monitoring and follow-up/ • additional contextual information
                                                                                                           p48-49      corporate responsibility goal summary
     aspect: community
           nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that
       so1 assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including                           p40-45      social contribution
           entering, operating, and exiting.
     aspect: corruption
               percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related
       so2                                                                                                 p11-12      risk management
               to corruption.
                                                              s anti-corruption policies
               percentage of employees trained in organization’
       so3                                                                                                 p13-15      compliance
               and procedures.
       so4 actions taken in response to incidents of corruption.                                            p13-15     compliance
     aspect : public policy
               public policy positions and participation in public policy development and
       so5
               lobbying.
               total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians,
       so6
               and related institutions by country.
     aspect: anti-competitive behavior
               total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and
       so7                                                                                                  p13-15     compliance
               monopoly practices and their outcomes.
     aspect: compliance
               monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for
       so8                                                                                                  p13-15     compliance
               noncompliance with laws and regulations.




                                                                                          corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 58




53889312409.indd   58                                                                                                                                 2012/10/23   17:57:10

                                                                                                           corporate social responsibility report 2012
                                               gri indicator
                                                                                                            pages            corresponding topics
     product responsibility
               disclosure on management approach                                                                       quality management that
                                                                                                           p46-47
               • goals and performance/ • policy/ • organizational responsibility                                      supports customers-first values
               • training and awareness/ • monitoring and follow-up/ • additional contextual information   p48-49      corporate responsibility goal summary
     aspect: customer health and safety
            life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and                                       social responsibility for products
                                                                                                            p32
        pr1 services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant                                       quality management that
                                                                                                           p46-47
            products and services categories subject to such procedures.                                               supports customers-first values
            total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and                               p13-15      compliance
        pr2 voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and                                       environment and occupational health
            services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes.                                           p25       and safety-related laws and regulations
     aspect : product and service labeling
            type of product and service information required by procedures,
        pr3 and percentage of significant products and services subject to such
            information requirements.
            total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and
        pr4 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling,
            by type of outcomes.
               practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys                                quality management that
        pr5                                                                                                p46-47
               measuring customer satisfaction.                                                                        supports customers-first values
     aspect : marketing communications
            programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related
        pr6 to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and
            sponsorship.
            total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and
        pr7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including
            advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes.
     aspect : customer privacy
               total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer
        pr8                                                                                                p13-15      compliance
               privacy and losses of customer data.
     aspect: compliance
               monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and
        pr9                                                                                                 p13-15     compliance
               regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services.




                                                                                          corporate social responsibility report2012, ibiden co., ltd. 59




53889312409.indd   59                                                                                                                                   2012/10/23   17:57:10

                                                     www.ibiden.com
                                                          contact point

                                                      csr promotion division
                                                    2-1, kanda-cho, ogaki city,
                                                       gifu 503-8604, japan
                                                      tel. +81 584 81-3147
                                                      fax. +81 584 81-2395




      please use the survey from always available on our web site to tell us what you think.




53889312409.indd   60                                                                          2012/10/23   17:57:10
