corporate social responsibility report 2013

contents

top message『we will continue to work toward being a company that moves
            forward consistently and grows for the next 100 years.』    ……… 2
         editorial policy         ………………………………………………………………………………………                                                         3

                    s csr management ……………………………………………………………………………… 5
    the ibiden group’
         ibiden way／challenge ibi-techno 105 plan                                              ………               5
         csr policy and promotional structure                                                  ………               6
         dialogue and cooperation with stakeholders                                            ………               8
         external corporate evaluation／assessment by third-party organizations and our actions ………               9
    internal control                ……………………………………………………………………………… 10
         governance structure in our group                                ……… 10
         status of internal audits and audits by corporate auditors／
         outside directors and outside corporate auditors                 ……… 11
         compensation of directors and corporate auditors／
         timely disclosure, communication with shareholders and investors ……… 12
         risk management                                                  ……… 13
         compliance                                                       ……… 15
         csr management in the supply chain                               ……… 19
    human resource management ……………………………………………………………………………… 21
         philosophy for human resource management and promotional structure………                                   21
         respect for human rights／equitable evaluation and treatment                         ………                 22
         development of human resources                                                      ………                 23
         respecting diverse work styles                                                      ………                 24
         labor and management cooperation to create a worker-friendly workplace／
         thoroughgoing compliance with labor-related laws                                    ………                 26
         measures for occupational health and safety／
         organization chart of occupational health and safety management                     ………                 27
         fiscal year 2012: activity guidelines for occupational health and safety and results………                 28
         managing employee health                                                            ………                 29
    environmental management ……………………………………………………………………………… 30
         environmental management - basic policy／environmental policy／
         organization chart of environmental management                                                 ………      30
         management system certification status／
         environment and occupational health and safety-related laws and regulations ………                         31
         guidelines for environmental activities／coping with climate change issues ………                           32
         resource circulation                                                                           ………      35
         appropriate chemical control                                                                   ………      36
         understanding the influence on biodiversity                                                    ………      37
         environmental contribution through products                                                    ………      38
         environmental performance data                                                                 ………      39
                   environmental accounting                                                             ………      39
                   the ibiden group’           s material balance (input and output)                    ………      41
                   environmental data for individual plants and group companies – compliance management ………      42
    social contribution             ……………………………………………………………………………… 46
         philosophy for social contribution and promotional structure ……… 46
         protecting the global environment                            ……… 47
         fostering the next generation                                ……… 48
         contributing to social welfare and local communities         ……… 49
         encouraging volunteerism                                     ……… 50
    social responsibility for our products ……………………………………………………………………………… 51
         quality management that supports customers-first values                                    ………          51
    corporate responsibility goal summary ……………………………………………………………………………… 53
    corporate information                 ……………………………………………………………………………… 55
    gri index table                       ……………………………………………………………………………… 58

                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd.   1

t op m e ssag e



    we will continue to work toward being a
    company that moves forward consistently
    and grows for the next 100 years.


ibiden co., ltd. was established in 1912 as ibigawa electric power co., ltd. to promote the local econ-
omy. then, we evolved into an electrochemical company using private power generation and then
changed our business to construction materials, electronics and ceramics. we celebrated our 100th
anniversary in november 2012. we would like to express our sincere thanks to those who have sup-
ported the ibiden group for a long time from the taisho to showa and heisei eras.

we will take advantage of hydroelectric power as a clean and renewable energy.
taking the opportunity of its 100th anniversary, the ibiden group carried out repair works on our hy-
droelectric power plants, which had supported the group for many years. hydroelectric power
generation is becoming more and more important as clean and renewable energy. we intend to oper-
ate and utilize the hydroelectric power plants, on which the repair works have completed, also in the
next generation as a valuable inheritance we received from our predecessors.

we will strengthen our competitiveness with all members participating in efforts.
aiming to enhance the management foundation, we have strived to push forward with and establish
our original voluntary improvement activities called ibiden profit management (ipm). currently, we are
implementing ipm as a loss prevention activity in which members from all divisions, from the produc-
tion division to the technology and functional divisions, participate. we will continue to drive ahead
with ipm activities that are aimed at improving the profitability of the ibiden group.

we will promote csr management from a global perspective.
there are many issues worldwide on which companies should focus as their social responsibilities.
such issues include the harmful effects that a severe working environment has on workers; further ag-
gravation of environmental problems, including air pollution; and involvement in conflicts over
procuring mineral resources. to build a structure that enables us to properly cope with such issues,
we understand issues that should be handled under global standards and proceed with their integra-
tion into the existing management system. as for activities that should be carried out from a global
perspective, we will make efforts to promote them across our entire supply chain, not to mention
within the group.
   the ibiden group has taken the first step toward the next 100 years. under our good dna that
lets us tide over any difficulty with all employees working as one, we will aim to become a company
that can continue to move forward consistently and grow. we also intend to steadily carry out csr
management and contribute to the creation of an affluent society through our innovative technology.
we would appreciate your continued support for many years to come.

                                                                      president & ceo




 we will build a trustworthy relationship with our stakeholders.
 we need to initiate and maintain dialogues with our stakeholders and undertake actions by work-
 ing closely with them. the ibiden group continues its proactive disclosure of information
 regarding its financial condition, products and csr and promotes transparent management practic-
 es in an attempt to help stakeholders gain a greater understanding of how the group is run and
 decisions are made.
    we hope you will get to know the group’     s range of undertakings discussed in this report, and
 we welcome your feedback and opinions.

                                                       corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd.   2

 ed itor ia l po li cy

 the ibiden 2013 corporate social responsibility report, covering mainly the environmental and social
 aspects of the ibiden group’    s policy and performance, is published to inform stakeholders about the
 ibiden group’   s csr activities in an easy-to-understand format. in recognition of the fact that csr is
 closely linked to our corporate management, this report focuses on the key themes based on matters
 of interest to our stakeholders and our four themes―internal control, human resource management,
 environmental management, and social contribution—including in“develop and promote csr man-
 agement globally”which is one of the pillars of our medium-term management plan. this report
 contains detailed information for our stakeholders on the group’    s policies and measures with regard
 to each theme and task.


 period covered
 this report focuses primarily on activities during fiscal year 2012 (april 1, 2012 to march 31, 2013),
 but also includes details of selected ongoing initiatives and more recent activities.

 date of publication
 september 2013 (previous report: september 2012, next report: september 2014)

 process of determining reporting items
based on the ibiden group charter of behavior,
each department in charge evaluates the manage-
ment tasks for the group as well as themes that
the ibiden group should tackle. furthermore, we
carefully consider the concerns of our stakehold-
                                                                                         communication with
ers and determine which items the company                                                our customers, the industry,
                                                           themes based on               and local communities
should include in its report. the means of commu-          the ibiden group              and external evaluation
nication with our stakeholders include direct              charter of behavior           organizations

communication in the form of requests and de-
                                                             themes that
mands from our customers, the industry, and local                                               concerns of
                                                          the ibiden group
                                                                                              our stakeholders
communities, feedback from external evaluation              should tackle
organizations such as sri (socially responsible in-
vestment), and feedback on the csr report.
   these issues and items are divided into groups
based on topics centered on four themes (internal                            reporting items
control, human resource management, environ-                               in csr report 2013
ment management, and social contribution) of our
“develop and promote csr management global-                approved by the
                                                        disclosure committee
ly,”which is one of the pillars of our consolidated      (internal regulation)
medium-term management plan. this csr report
is published after undergoing the above-men-
tioned process to select reporting items and is                                  disclosure
based on the company’     s disclosure rules. it has
also been approved by the disclosure committee.
                                                                flow chart of determining reporting items
   this report is intended for the stakeholders
who are highly interested in csr. the contents of
the report consist of our stakeholders’interests,
the items for which they have great expectations
or demands, and the matters for which the group
recognizes its responsibility.




                                                         corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd.   3

coverage
as a rule, the contents of this report relate to ibiden co., ltd. (“we”/“ibiden”/“the company”)
and domestic and overseas companies belonging to the ibiden group. parts of this report that do not
relate to the ibiden group (“the group”) are specified on an individual basis.
- environmental performance date for the group’       s operations centers on main production bases as
bellow (covered almost 100% of production sites):
      ・domestic premises…ogaki plant, ogaki central plant, aoyanagi plant, gama plant, ogaki kita
                              plant, godo plant, kinuura plant and including some domestic group
                              which are covered by ibiden’   s management system.
      ・domestic group companies…ibiden jushi co., ltd. [“jushi”], ibiden bussan co., ltd.
                                      [“bussan”], ibiden engineering co., ltd. [“iec”], ibiden indus-
                                      tries co., ltd. [“sangyo”], ibiden greentec co., ltd. [“igt”]
      ・overseas group companies…ibiden electronics (beijing) co., ltd. [“ieb”] , ibiden philip-
                                      pines, inc. [“ipi”], ibiden hungary kft. [“ihu”], ibiden dpf
                                      france s.a.s. [“idfs”], ibiden porzellanfabrik frauenthal gmbh
                                      [“ipf”], ibiden electronics malaysia sdn. bhd. [“iem”], ibiden
                                      (malaysia) sdn. bhd. [“iml”], micro mech,inc. [“mmi”], ibiden
                                      electronics (shanghai) co., ltd. [“ish”]
- selected environment data are only applicable to ibiden’    s domestic premises. such data are marked
as“ibiden domestic premises”and include ibiden co., ltd. and selected domestic group companies.
- the benchmarks for the basic unit of the production volume are ibiden’     s domestic premises, jushi,
bussan, ieb, ipi, iem, ihu and idfs, which are the main production bases.
- iem and ipf are included in the calculation of environment performance data, starting from data for
fiscal year 2012.

guidelines used as reference
iso26000:2010 guidance on social responsibility
sustainability reporting guidelines (third edition), global reporting initiative (gri)
environmental reporting guidelines (fiscal year 2012 version), ministry of the environment
environmental accounting guidelines (fiscal year 2005 version), ministry of the environment
note: gri guideline comparison table can be found at the end of the report.

supplementary information regarding the contents
starting from the fiscal year under review, ibiden porzellanfabrik frauenthal gmbh, whose shares
have been newly acquired, and consolidated subsidiaries of the company are included in the scope of
consolidation. ibiden international, inc., a consolidated subsidiary of ibiden, purchased ibiden u.s.a.
corp., which is also a consolidated subsidiary, and changed its trade name to ibiden u.s.a. corp.
ibiden u.s.a. r&d inc. is excluded from the scope of consolidation, since its liquidation was complet-
ed in june 2012.
   in addition, ibiden european holdings b.v. purchased ibiden europe b.v. and ibiden deutschland
gmbh, both of which are also consolidated subsidiaries of ibiden, and changed its trade name to
ibiden europe b.v.

disclosure of csr information
the ibiden group’  s csr report is published on our website. we will update social and environmental
information in an appropriate manner.
   furthermore, our website serves as a venue to disclose in a timely manner a wide range of informa-
tion such as financial information including the group’s business report and its consolidated financial
statements as well as nonfinancial information such as various
policies and management indicators concerning csr.


  website
            s web site
ibiden group’              http://www.ibiden.com/
            s csr web site http://www.ibiden.com/csr/
ibiden group’
                                                        corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd.   4

                s csr management
the ibiden group’


i bi d e n wa y

the power that has enabled ibiden“to overcome many adversities with all our employees and to continue to
exist,”and“the wisdom and vitality that have achieved dramatic growth in recent years”- these have persist-
                    s long history. the systematization that carries this on, transcending borders, is the
ed throughout ibiden’
“ibiden way.”
   to mark its 100th anniversary, we have revamped its corporate philosophy, the“ibiden way,”simplifying
it to enhance its understanding by all ibiden group employees worldwide.

                                                         mission
                                                         it is the fundamental perspective of the existence value and purpose of this
                                                         company.

                                                         we contribute to the progression of society through inno-
                                                         vative technology, with respect for both individuals and
                                                         the global environment.

                                                         spirit
                                                         we share our spirits with all staffs globally. and through accomplishing
                                                         these,“corporate philosophy”will be realized.

                                                         - trust through integrity
                                                         -“wa”teamwork and synergy
                                                         - challenge with passion
                                                         - ibi-techno innovation



ch a l l e ng e ibi-tec hn o 1 0 5 pl a n

we reinforce our capacities for total produc-
                                                                         consolidated medium-term management plan
tive management, management of technology,
management of business and management ca-
                                                                        “challenge ibi-techno 105 plan”
pability in order to establish a robust corporate
culture resilient to any market changes.                                                    period
                                                                              fy2013 to fy2017【5 year term】

                                                                                    pillar of the strategy
                                                             1. reconstruct and enhance competitiveness of core operations
                                                                          2. work on the creation of new business
                                                                    3. develop and promote csr management globally



today’  s business environment surrounding ibiden group is extremely volatile, faced by the fierce competition
between companies seeking global survival.
   in april 2013, we launched our consolidated medium-term management plan,“challenge ibi-techno 105
plan,”envisioning next 100 years ahead of us. by redefining and strengthening our total productive manage-
ment, management of technology, management of business and management capability, we will solidify and
restructure our core business competitiveness. by emphasizing the global implementation of tpm activities,
we boost our onsite capabilities, while at the same time engaging in the creation of innovative technologies in
the fields of materials, facilities, and production processes.
   also, based on our core technologies nurtured through the company’    s distinguished history, we will set up
specific goals and engage ourselves in the development of new electronic and ceramic products, as well as
product development and business implementation in new business areas.
   furthermore, in our effort to successfully run our csr management, we put our emphasis on“human re-
source management”to nurture people who can thrive globally.
   through the steady implementation of the consolidated medium-term management plan, we will further
reinforce our revenue base, and everyone in the group will actively take up new challenges to realize a new
level of growth.

                                                             corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd.          5

cs r p o l ic y and pro m o ti o n a l s t r u c t u r e

all csr activities at the ibiden group are based on our mission of“we contribute to the progression of soci-
ety through innovation technology, with respect for both individuals and the global environment.”we pursue
activities that enhance the reliability and transparency of management through business so that we will be
able to build a relationship based on trust with society, as well as strive to flourish as a going concern and
contribute to social advancement.
    the direction and the ideal of our csr activities are shared throughout the entire group and presented as
the ibiden group charter of behavior, which takes into account our role as a global corporation and reflects
requests and demands from our stakeholders including our major customers around the world.

ibiden group charter of behavior (july. 2011)

       article 1: compliance with laws, regulations, and ethics
       we comply with laws, regulations and ethical requirements of the countries and regions where its busi-
       ness operations are based. we work against corruption in all its forms, and carry out open and fair
       corporate activities with the intention of becoming a company that enjoys the confidence of the inter-
       national community. we also protect and properly manage personal and customer data and other
       types of information.
       article 2: development together with stakeholders
       we develop together with our stakeholders, so we enhance the transparency of management and
       build a trustworthy relationship through communication. we also actively engage in community-based
       activities that contribute to society as a good corporate citizen.
       article 3: providing customer delight
       we provide customer delight, so we have a good understanding of social trends, future needs and de-
       velop. we provide safe and secure products and services to maximize our customer’   s satisfaction by
       growing ibi-techno.
       article 4: management based on global standards
       we manage our group based on global standards. we respect human rights and other international
       norms of behavior. also, we respect culture and customs in each country or region concerned when
       carrying out our corporate activity.
       article 5: harmony with nature
       we harmonize with nature in all areas of our corporate activities. we manage to develop technologies
       to achieve good balance between the environment and business, and we provide environmentally
       friendly products and services by promoting energy and resource conservation activities.
       article 6: attractive and vibrant company
       we aim to become an attractive and vibrant company on the basis of fair, equitable and result oriented
       employee evaluation personnel system. we aim to have a safe and comfortable working environment.
       we create a rewarding corporate culture that the employee can respect for each diversity, and fully ex-
       ercise their skills and abilities.


ibiden group charter of behavior and corporate governance
we recognize that the entire company including the management must participate in the effort if we are to
fully realize the spirit of the ibiden group charter of behavior. the management also understands that it
should lead by example to ensure that these efforts take place thoroughly throughout the company as well as
among our group companies, and to encourage our suppliers to participate. furthermore, we pay continuous
attention to the voices of people both inside and outside the company and have put in place an effective cor-
porate structure. should an incident occur that violates the charter, the management will have in place a
system to solve problems, which will communicate its position, investigate the cause and implement a preven-
tion of recurrence. moreover, we will communicate accurately and in a timely manner the information
regarding the incident including accountability. finally, after authority and responsibility are clarified, severe
consequences will be imposed.

framework for csr promotion
the company set up csr promotion division in april 2006 as the division responsible for the promotion of
csr activities.
    we also designated a management person in charge of the promotion in each division who performs du-
ties such as promoting csr activities and compliance, supervising the implementation of compliance, hosting
educational sessions for the members of the division, and reporting of compliance violations within the divi-
sion as well as the follow-up on improvements.
    we also convene a conference for management persons responsible for csr promotion three times in fy
2012. during the conference, the participants confirm the company-wide promotion items and their progress
as well as share anecdotal examples of promotional activities at their workplace or within the group compa-
nies.
    furthermore, we have designated september as csr month and encourage each and every employee to
increase his or her awareness of csr by broadcasting messages from executives and increasing the number of
educational activities related to compliance.
                                                               corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd.   6

managing activities related to the ibiden group charter of behavior
in july 2011, to implement csr management based on our corporate philosophy the“ibiden way,”we re-
vised the ibiden group charter of behavior to reflect our role as a global corporation as well as requests and
demands of our stakeholders. as internationally shared understanding, we respect the guidance standards of
iso26000, global compact and eicc code of conduct as part of a supply chain, though we do not belong
                                       ®


to the eicc , and reflect them in the details of the ibiden group charter of behavior. furthermore, we evalu-
            ®


ate and consider initiatives in japan, including the keidanren charter of corporate behavior, as a member of
keidanren: japanese business federation. to develop these ideas into specific activities, we are making items
to be implemented, which take into account these international standards and requests and evaluation items
made by external institutions, part of each division’                                                         s
                                                      s policy. the process of making it part of each division’
policy has allowed us to manage the level of progress of the activities related to the ibiden group charter of
behavior as part of the division’s operations.

           charter of behavior              medium-term targets                         action plans
            (goals for the group)


for each employee, we compiled concrete items to be carried out concerning the ibiden group charter of
behavior as the ibiden standards for employee behavior. the standards were formulated by taking into con-
sideration international standards, such as the code of conduct and requirements of the industry. ibiden
group companies have also established their original code of conduct in accordance with the ibiden stan-
dards for employee behavior. (please refer to“compliance”on page 15.)
   in fiscal year 2013, we aim to establish a structure that can manage activities, by integrating ideas and re-
quirements under international standards into the existing management system.


csr policy
the group strives to contribute to social advancement while achieving continuing existence by implementing
csr management. the vision of the group’    s csr management has been developed along four themes in our
mid-term plan based on corporate philosophy and charter of behavior: internal control, human resource man-
agement, environment management, and social contribution. we believe that working from these four
viewpoints will allow us to build on our relationship based on trust with our stakeholders by further expand-
ing activities in a wide range of areas.

 ＜csr policy＞
 we aim to enhance our corporate value
 ・by raising awareness of the need for ibiden to act responsibly and honestly in the interest of sustainable
  operations
 ・by fulfilling our responsibilities in a well-balanced manner from an economic, environmental and social
  standpoint
 ・by working in partnership with all of our stakeholders.

                                                    employees

                              customers                                       suppliers
                                               human resource
                                                management


                 shareholders/                  internal control                          local
                   investors                                                           communities
                                    environmental              social
                                     management              contribution




                                              global environment             <conceptual diagram of csr management>

based on our four themes of internal control (such as corporate governance, compliance and risk manage-
ment), human resource management, environmental management, and social contribution, we will implement
activities in a wide range of areas and build a trustworthy relationship with all stakeholders.




                                                            corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd.   7

di a l o g ue and c o o p erati o n wit h s t a k e h o l d e r s

since its operations began as a hydroelectric power generation business that provided electricity to the com-
munity, the ibiden group has won the support of all residents in the community as well as many other
people.
   we continue to look for opportunities to communicate with our stakeholders to thoroughly understand the
expectations and demands that they have concerning the group.
   in fiscal year 2012, we carried out communications, aimed at deepening the common understanding of in-
ternational social responsibility, in japan and overseas. we deepen understanding of what we should observe
as an industrial association through communications with customers. we not only shared such understanding
with our employees, but also shared what is demanded from our entire supply chain with material suppliers,
temporary staffing agencies and subcontractors through audits and briefings.
   we strongly believe that, if we are to continue developing and cultivating a relationship based on trust, it is
essential that we continue to reflect in our business activities the stakeholders’expectations and demands ex-
pressed during our communications.

■example of communication (as of march 31, 2013)
                      stakeholders                                      example of communication                 responsible division
 employees              employees at our 47 group companies           labor and management                       human resources
                        (consolidated), both in japan and abroad,     committee, training and                    division
                        number 11,879. grounded in the basic          development, appraisal interview           environment &
                        principle of respect for individuals, we      health and safety committee,               safety division
                        value the creativity and varied               compliance counter                         csr promotion
                        characteristics of each and every employee.                                              division
 customers              we contribute to the lives of our             improvement of customer                    business
                        customers, grounded in innovation             satisfaction, regular meeting,             administration
                        technology, by offering diverse,              provision of csr information               division
                        high quality products, from                   code of conduct audit                      (each operation)
                        electronic components to ceramic
                        and building materials
 suppliers              the ibiden group operates                     purchasing policy briefings, safety        global purchasing
                        businesses in japan and abroad,               training session for suppliers,            division
                        and conducts procurement from                 implementation of csr survey and           environment &
                        numerous business partners                    audit, compliance counter for              safety division
                                                                      supplier                                   csr promotion
                                                                                                                 division
 local communities      ibiden has major facilities in 18             risk communication, regular                each plant
                        countries around the world, and               exchanges with community                   general affairs
                        conducts global corporate citizen             associations, social contribution          division
                        activities that suit the culture and          activities
                        climate of each country and region.

 shareholders /         ibiden has about 150 million                  general shareholders’meeting,              general affairs
 investors              issued shares, with a total of                investor briefings, response to            division
                        43,754 shareholders (as of the end            research and evaluation                    office of the
                        of march 2013)                                organizations                              president
                                                                                                                 csr promotion
                                                                                                                 division


risk communication at plant
we hold events to communicate risks annually by inviting rep-
resentatives of regional residents to our plants. persons in
charge at the plants first explain the purpose of the communi-
cation and introduce our business, and then describe activities
within our plants mainly from the perspectives of measures to
cope with environment pollution and safety management.
through an actual tour of the plants, explanations are made
and questions are answered about the management of wastes
and the status of use and management method of chemical
substances.
   we will continue to deepen mutual understanding and
work out proper measures through having direct communica-                              risk communication (at gama plant)
tions within plants and disclosing information.

                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd.   8

ex te r na l co rp o rate evalua t io n

in recent years, attention has increasingly focused on socially responsible investment (sri), referring to corpo-
rate investment from a social perspective, taking into account considerations such as the environment and
social contribution rather than concentrating exclusively on profitability and other corporate and financial tar-
gets.
    having been evaluated by an sri evaluation organization, we have been selected for inclusion in the dow
jones sustainability indexes (djsi world, djsi asia pacific), ethibel excellence, and morningstar’    s sri index
(as of june 2013).




as s essm ent b y thi rd -part y o r g a n iz a t io n s a n d o u r ac t ion s

undergoing sustainable management assessment
in order to realize and maintain csr management, it is essential not only to conduct internal evaluations and
audits but also to assess our activities from an objective viewpoint. to this end, the company undergoes an
external assessment every two years and strives to improve on the credibility of the csr activities it promotes.
   in response to the results of the“sustainable management assessment”which was conducted by a non-
profit organization (npo), the sustainable management forum of japan (smf), in march 2012, we pushed
forward with improvement activities. we changed the way we disclose information and started more clearly
presenting various activity policies particularly in areas of social development and the environment.
“sustainable management assessment”: the requirements of iso 26000 are taken into account, and the level of activities
 pertaining to areas such as management, environment and social development, including governance, is evaluated while the
 evidence (proof and/or rationale) is verified mutually.


corporate evaluation by external organizations
the company conducts gap analyses between“what it should be”and the results of external corporate eval-
uations. our csr promotion division analyzes the data obtained from important survey questions and
discusses the course of action with departments involved to identify elements that are lacking at the compa-
ny. furthermore, if it is possible to improve upon these elements during the next fiscal year, each department
develops strategies within its action policy.
   for fiscal year 2012, our focus was on the improvement of efforts particularly for life cycle assessment in
the area of the environment. we also proceeded with preparations for obtaining evidence that enables us to
explain the parts where indicators are insufficient, including evaluation of personnel affairs and the status of
response to water risk.

csr-related audits
we respond to csr-related audits conducted by third-party organizations based on customer requirement.
   the results of audits similarly undergo the process of gap analysis to establish the difference between the
global industry-required standards and the company’      s current efforts, and to identify issues that need to be
addressed. we take to heart the suggested issues put forward during these audits and strive to improve upon
them by analyzing the causes and implementing corrective actions as well as preventative measures. further-
more, we are working toward creating a system that meets the global standards by improving upon these
issues.
   in fiscal year 2012, we underwent audits by third-party organizations for the first time in japan, and the re-
sults of audit indicate that our csr structure is low-risk. the audit results are attributable to our efforts to fully
understand requirements and promote reviewing the system so that human rights can be observed in other
regions as well, as we developed further our human rights activities in asia. we will handle items that require
attention concerning human rights in such a way that violations do not occur under mechanisms of regulations
and guidelines, and establish a structure under which the items can be checked by an internal audit.

                                                                  corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd.   9

internal control


our group defines corporate governance as a critical management issue for increasing corporate value
through sustainable growth. the entire group is actively committed to improving corporate governance.

by strengthening our internal control functions through proactively developing“activities for advancing compli-
ance and risk management”with an involvement of all officers and employees and by augmenting and
strengthening the management-oversight functions of our board of directors and the audit functions of our au-
ditors, we are creating a transparent corporate control system that can accommodate the reliance of our
shareholders and society.

 governance structure in our group

general description of governance structure
with regard to the operation of the board of directors, we have asked two outside directors to join and pro-
vide their management advice in an effort to realize fair, highly transparent management. for the designation
and determination of remuneration, we also have in place fair, transparent procedures. ibiden clarifies the di-
rectors’management responsibility and strives to strengthen the management structure. the maximum
number of directors is set at 18 (13 as of june 30, 2013), and a director’ s term of office is set at one year to
respond to changes in the business environment and build an optimum, flexible management structure. fur-
thermore, ibiden has introduced an executive officer system to facilitate speedy management decision-making
and further acceleration of business operations.
   ibiden has elected to operate as a company with corporate auditors and a board of corporate auditors.
as for the decision-making by the board of directors and business operations by the president and ceo, they
are audited by the board of auditors, and each auditor has the ability to take strict action.

in addition to the corporate governance structure described above, the company has set up a management
conference to fortify its structure. composed of parties responsible for management decisions and business
execution such as representative directors, directors, executive officers and managing officers, in addition to
full-time corporate auditors, the management conference is authorized to conduct advance deliberations on
matters to be placed on the agenda of the board of directors and is authorized, under the company’      s rules
on authorizations, to approve such items. it also deliberates and makes decisions on important matters includ-
ing management of the progress made in yearly and monthly budgets and managerial issues.

to ensure the appropriateness and fairness of business conducted by the ibiden group companies, ibiden
has suggested to the heads of the group companies a structure designed to advance compliance and risk
management similar to its own. at group information exchange meetings, it keeps abreast of their actions ad-
vocating compliance and risk management, their status of management and progress made to meet the
targets mapped out in their plans for profit generation.

diagram of corporate governance system
                                                                                                            shareholders’meeting


                           appointment/removal                                                                       appointment/removal                                                      appointment/removal

                                                                                                                                                     report
                                                                                                                                              report/cooperation
      board of directors directors                                                                   board of corporate auditors                                                       accounting auditors
                                                                                                           audit auditors                  approval of appointment/
                                                           audit
       supervision                                                                                                                         removal and interpretation of
                                                                                            report                          direction      proper audit




                             discuss questions/            audit
                             report
                                                       order                                                  risk management company-wide                                 compliance company-wide
        management conference
                                                                   csr promotion division




                                                                                                                   promotional committee                                     promotional committee
 representative directors (executive oﬃcer)       report
    standing auditors (executive oﬃcer)
             executive oﬃcers
                                                                                                                  executive oﬃcer in charge of                       executive oﬃcer in charge of compliance
                                                                                                                       risk management
       supervision                                                                                         (managing oﬃcer in charge of csr promotion)             (managing oﬃcer in charge of csr promotion)
                             discuss
                             questions/
                             report

                                                                                                                     departments in charge of
 president & ceo (direct management)                                                                                  each risk management                                     compliance counter
   executive oﬃcer of each business
     (division of executive authority)

                                                                                                                                                                             compliance committee
                                                                                                                                                                             reward and disciplinary committee*
                                                       report
                                                                                                                                                                             information security committee
                                                                                                                                                                             security and trade management committee
                                                                                                                                                                             insider trade controlling framework
                                                                                                                                                                             disclosure committee



execution of operation/
             supervision                                   audit                                audit        order                                                   order                                         audit

                                                           each business and function department ・each company in the group

                                                                                                                                                                *established on an ad hoc basis when related issues arise

                                                                                                                               corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 10

reasons for establishing the corporate governance structure
the ibiden group’   s corporate governance is conducted effectively and efficiently under the current corporate
auditor system. given the business size and organizational structure of the group, the company believes that
the current structure is best suited to the group in terms of achieving the independence of auditing work and
the efficiency of corporate governance.

current status of the internal control system and risk management structure
based on the belief that corporate governance is a crucial management issue, the group’  s internal control sys-
tem calls for proactive implementation of measures across the group aimed at advancing compliance and risk
management and further augmentation of monitoring functions.
    the status of actions and their development are reported regularly by executive officers in charge of com-
pliance and risk management promotion to the board of directors and the management conference, and such
actions are monitored and reviewed from time to time to make the compliance and risk management struc-
ture fairer, stronger and more appropriate.


 status of internal audits and audits by corporate auditors

the company has five corporate auditors, three of whom are outside corporate auditors with no conflict of in-
terests with the company. two of the five corporate auditors of the company are persons who have
substantial knowledge of finance and accounting either through long service in the company’ s finance or ac-
counting division or through obtaining professional qualifications such as certificates to practice tax
accounting.
   corporate auditors participate in major meetings including those of the board of directors and the man-
agement conference to audit the business executed by the directors. in addition, fulltime corporate auditors
work in cooperation with the csr promotion division audit group, which is the internal auditing organ of the
company, and accounting auditors to perform audits on ibiden and its group companies as required by law
and other rules.
   executive officers and others submit reports at the request of the corporate auditors in compliance with
the rules of the board of corporate auditors and the corporate auditors’auditing rules set forth by the
board of corporate auditors. the company has also created an audit group (comprising six members) in csr
promotion division, which is responsible for executing internal audits. the csr promotion division conducts
internal audits of the matters requested by the corporate auditors through discussion with them to ensure
greater effectiveness of the audit structure of the group.



 outside directors and outside corporate auditors

as stated in the preceding section, the company has a governance structure that includes two outside direc-
tors and three outside corporate auditors. the company anticipates their contribution to proper and fair
corporate governance and their valuable advice concerning the employee’          s code of conduct. although
ibiden has no standard or policy of its own with respect to the requirements to ensure the independence of
outside directors and outside corporate auditors, when electing any of its outside directors or outside corpo-
rate auditors, ibiden makes sure that he or she meets the requirements of being independent and of being
unlikely to have any conflict of interest with the general shareholders of ibiden.
    yoshitoshi toyoda, who serves as ibiden’     s outside director, is honorary chairman of toyota industries
corporation. no special relationship exists between the said company and ibiden. the other outside director
of ibiden, shozo saito also served as director, representative executive officers and corporate senior execu-
tive vice president of toshiba corporation. no special relationship exists between the said organization and
ibiden.
    tadao kuribayashi, honorary professor at keio university, serves as outside corporate auditor. no special
relationship exists between the said university and ibiden. the outside corporate auditor, yasuhiro kumagai,
is representative partner of kumagai jimusho & co. and outside auditor of toc co., ltd. no special relation-
ship exists between the said companies and ibiden. the outside corporate auditor, shigenori shiota, is
partner of tanabe & partners. no special relationship exists between the said company and ibiden.
    at ibiden’s board of directors meetings, outside directors express opinions based on their wealth of man-
agerial experiences and provide important advice to advance the ibiden group’           s governance. outside
corporate auditors express their opinions based on their academic experiences or professional expertise in
taxation and financial matters at the board of directors and the board of corporate auditors meetings and
provide fair and objective advice to the company’    s directors. the company believes that the aforementioned
outside directors and the outside corporate auditors, who have demonstrated their independence, have suc-
cessfully undertaken their responsibilities expected of them by the company.


                                                            corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 11

 compensation of directors and corporate auditors (fiscal year 2012)

total remuneration of directors and corporate auditors by classification, total remuneration by type, and num-
ber of directors and corporate auditors receiving remuneration are as below.
                                  all directors             external directors only                                all auditors               external auditors only
     classification       number of recipients amount paid number of recipients amount paid number of recipients amount paid number of recipients amount paid
                            (persons) (millions of yen) (persons) (millions of yen) (persons) (millions of yen) (persons) (millions of yen)
  basic remuneration           14              381               2               24                   6                         82               3             21
        bonuses                10               38                -               -                      -                        -              -              -
     stock options             13               10               2                1                      -                        -              -              -
         total                                 430                               25                                             82                             21
1. the resolution setting the upper limit of remuneration for the directors at not more than 45 million yen per month was approved at the
   154th general shareholders’meeting held on june 22, 2007. of the total, the amount for outside director’     s accounts for 3 million yen or
   less, with the remaining 42 million yen or less paid to the other directors. compensation under stock option plans is set separately. salary
   for directors as company employees is also excluded from the figures.
2. in addition to the remuneration and the compensation under stock option mentioned above in 1, at the 158th general shareholders’meet-
   ing held on june 22, 2011, the resolution was approved stipulating that directors, excluding the outside directors, are to receive as bonus
   equal to 0.5% of the consolidated net income for the fiscal year as well as 1.6% of the total amount of annual dividends for the applicable
   fiscal year. however, the maximum limit was also set at not more than ¥500 million by the resolution with amounts less than ¥1 million be-
   ing rounded down.
3. although bonuses for directors amounted to ¥77 million based on the above calculation, recognizing the severe operating environment and
                                  s severe performance during the fiscal year, bonuses for directors totaling ¥38 million were approved at the
   the difficulties in the company’
   board of directors’meeting held on may 17, 2013.
4. in addition to the amount paid mentioned above, 41 million yen has been paid to the two directors of the company who concurrently serve
   as the directors of the company’   s subsidiaries as basic remuneration during the current period in relation to the two subsidiaries con-
   cerned.
5. the maximum limit of remuneration for corporate auditors was approved at not more than ¥9 million per month at the 159th general share-
   holders’meeting held on june 20, 2012.




 timely disclosure, communication with shareholders and investors

relationships with stakeholders and timely disclosure
aware of its mission to increase corporate value and meet shareholder expectations, the group understands
that it must fulfill its responsibilities with respect to employees, local residents, local communities, business
partners, investors, and other non-shareholding stakeholders. for this reason, we have instituted the disclo-
sure regulations to facilitate proper assessments of our group. our aim is to help stakeholders understand
the group and to win their broad consent to reconciling their interests of different stakeholder groups. with
the decision of the disclosure committee, consisting chiefly of the president and the director responsible for
finance sections, management information is disclosed in a fair, timely, and appropriate manner.

communication with shareholders and investors
the company issued approximately 150 million shares and had about 44,000 shareholders as of the end of
march 2013. we held an ordinary general meeting of shareholders in the multi-purpose hall in the ibiden
headquarters building on june 21, 2013. we have been focusing on establishing a more open environment by
adopting the voting rights exercise platform for shareholders who are unable to attend the meeting since fis-
cal year 2006. we endeavor to enhance information by attaching the details of the business report to the
notice of ordinary general meeting of shareholders, starting from fiscal year 2011, and providing them to
shareholders via shareholder information.
   in addition, we hold periodic briefings for analysts and institutional investors after the announcement of
business results for the full year and those for an interim term, and release materials for the briefings on our
website. furthermore, we take part in various events as briefings for individual investors, thus providing them
with opportunities to invest in shares of the company. (please refer to disclosure of financial information on
page 55.)                                                                       dividend   dividend payout ratio


                                                                                                                   80                                          70
policy on distribution of profits
                                                                                                                   70                         57.15            60
we try to steadily return profits to shareholders while making                                                                                         52.64
                                                                                                                                                                      dividend payout ratio (%)




                                                                                                                   60
efforts to communicate important management information in a                                                             45.8                                  50
                                                                                                                   50
                                                                                                  dividend (yen)




timely manner and disclose corporate information accurately,                                                                          36.61                    40
fairly and impartially. with regard to distribution of profits to                                                  40
                                                                                                                                                               30
shareholders, we aim for a dividend payout ratio of 30% on a                                                       30
consolidated basis from a medium- to long-term perspective                                                         20                  40                      20
based on continuing to pay stable dividends. (dividend payout                                                      10
                                                                                                                          30                    30      30
                                                                                                                                                               10
ratio for fiscal year 2012: 52.64%.)
                                                                                                                     0                                         0
                                                                                                                         2009         2010     2011    2012    (fy)

                                                                                                dividend and dividend payout ratio per share (ibiden)
                                                                                      corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 12

 risk management

basic approach
the ibiden group enables business continuity by analyzing various risks surrounding management, accurately
handling losses of business resources that have a great negative impact on the ease of our business opera-
tions, ensuring the safety of our shareholders, customers and officers, and reducing and preventing losses of
business resources.

action plan
1. we devote efforts to maintaining the safety and health of employees and business partners and to con-
   serving operating resources.
2. we conduct ourselves so as not to impinge upon the safety, health, or profits of our shareholders, custom-
   ers, and local and international society.
3. in cases where risk is manifested, we work to achieve prompt response and recovery through responsible
   action.
4. we reflect social demands related to risk in our risk management.
5. we provide required information in order to avoid or reduce possible damage caused by misunderstand-
   ing and a lack of understanding.

structure for advancing risk management
the group has established risk management regulations to create a risk management structure and its man-
agement process. we also created the risk management company-wide promotional committee, which is
tasked with improving risk management. the risk management company-wide promotional committee is re-
sponsible for considering and deciding on general risk management issues. it also examines and reports the
progress of actions to address major risks. to execute the policy endorsed by this committee, a risk owner is
appointed to carry out activities geared to ibiden’s circumstances and business model, as well as with those
of its group firms.

                                 risk management company-wide promotional committee
               (directors, executive oﬃcers, standing auditors, unit managers and manager of audit group)
    function              deliberation and decision making on risk management, etc.

                                                                                                                          secretariat
                                                                                                                    csr promotion division
                                                                                                                    csr promotion group
       csr promotion division
            audit group




       business                                                             financial aﬀairs      development and
                                                                                                                             energy supply
      opportunity               systems risks       legal aﬀairs risks        and funding       intellectual property
                                                                                                                                  risks
         risks                                                                   risks                   risks

    business sections          information system   legal aﬀairs sections   finance sections    intellectual                 energy control
                               sections                                                         property sections            sections


                               human resource
                                                                            environmental
     overseas risks               and labor          disaster risks                                                              new risks
                                                                                 risks
                                    risks
                                                    environment &
    overseas enterprises and   human resources      safety and general      environment &                                    related sections
    general aﬀair sections     sections             aﬀairs sections         safety sections




                           business sections, functional sections, domestic and overseas group companies
                                                                                                     *a promotion manager appointed at each section




                                                                               corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 13

advancing risk management
based on its basic policy and risk management regulations, the group is
actively developing risk management promotion activities by, for example,
setting up a department responsible for each risk category, strengthening
the accountability structure, and offering seminars and workshops geared
toward officers and employees. the managing officer of the csr promo-
tion division who also acts as the officer responsible for risk management
conducts these risk-management promotion activities and reports to the
risk management company-wide promotional committee (secretariat:
csr promotion division) headed by the president and ceo.                           twice a year holding of the risk management
                                                                                   companywide promotion committee meeting

should the internal audit or other mechanisms discover business actions that may create risk of loss, the offi-
cer responsible for the strategic corporate planning operation is immediately tasked to understand the
details of the said risk as well as the scope of its potential loss. he then gives instructions on swift and sys-
tematic measures and attempts to prevent the loss from occurring. furthermore, in case of a large-scale
accident or a disaster, he immediately sets up the headquarters to thoroughly understand the situation, imple-
ment first responses, and prevent further loss to minimize the loss.


risk assessment and addressing risks
the ibiden group undertakes risk management activities so
                                                                           fiscal year 2012 risk management
that we may continue to reliably conduct our business opera-
                                                                       promotional subcommittee themes (excerpts)
tions. we regularly detect and assess risks to reduce risks in
important areas: operational divisions are working on the risks         building of a legal compliance structure
related to strengthening our business competitive edge, while           reconstruction of information security
functional divisions are addressing the risks bringing serious re-      management structure
                          s business.
percussions to the company’                                             secondary disasters when an
   in fiscal year 2012, we held a meeting of the risk manage-           earthquake occurs
ment promotional subcommittee every month and implemented               supplier disaster risk                     other
measures for boosting risk management activities to the next
level at each functional division.


business continuous plan
as for measures to be taken when disasters such as earthquakes occur, we believe that lifesaving comes first,
followed by the early supply of products to customers.
                                                              s resistance to earthquakes but also deter-
   to prepare for earthquakes, we not only check each building’
mine the items, matters and divisions for actions to be taken in regard to damage prevention, secondary
damage, and anticipation. furthermore, to prepare for supply risks that may occur during earthquakes and
other disasters, we have verified the current situation at the company as well as our suppliers and begun im-
plementing measures to reduce risk in the order of risk priority.




                                                             corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 14

 compliance

basic policy
by achieving thoroughgoing commitment to“compliance with domestic and international laws, our articles of
incorporation, internal regulations and corporate ethics (hereinafter called compliance)”and through open
and fair corporate activities, we aim to be a company that international society relies on.
    the ibiden group adopted the ibiden standards for employee behavior in december 1998 and the com-
pliance promotion regulations in august 2003, to facilitate its compliance activities. we continue to increase
awareness of compliance, adopting a management approach that seeks to earn the trust and respect of all
stakeholders.

structure for promoting compliance program
the group vigorously pursues further development of its compliance promotion activities (streamlining of the
compliance-related rules and regulations, verifying the status of implementation of compliance activities, pro-
motion activities, workshops and other functions geared toward the officers and employees) based on our
basic policy and compliance promotion regulations, the“ibiden standards for employee behavior,”which
sets the standards for compliance implementation. the executive officer in charge of the csr promotion divi-
sion as well as compliance implements promotion activities then reports to the compliance company-wide
promotional committee (secretariat: csr promotion division) chaired by the president and ceo.
    in addition to the formal channel of reporting, the group has established a compliance consultation service
to facilitate reporting when an officer or employee discovers a violation of compliance. through this service,
officers and employees may report violations nominally to employees in charge of the compliance consulta-
tion service or anonymously to outside experts. the latter ensures that the rights of the whistleblower are
protected by protecting his or her privacy and prohibiting prejudicial treatment. the executive officer in
charge of compliance strives to educate officers and employees through training to achieve thorough under-
standing of the compliance consultation system. should an incident related to compliance occur, the
compliance committee chaired by an executive officer is called and discussions take place on appropriate ac-
tions to address the situation as well as preventative measures for future incidents. serious incidents such as
those highly relevant to directors are reported to the board of directors.



                                                                    board of directors


 board of corporate auditor                                                                president & ceo




  compliance company-wide promotional committee chaired by president & ceo                             compliance committee

           ① company-wide promotion                                                         ① implementing and planning a countermeasure
function




                                                                                function




           ② overall control                                                                ② deliberation on non-compliance case
           ③ reporting and reviewing                                                        ③ consultation with the reward and disciplinary committee
                                                                                            ④ consultation with the board of director


      compliance promotional committee at each plant
                chaired by plant manager                                                     executive oﬃcer in charge of compliance
           ① promotion at a plant level
function




           ② ediﬁcation and education at a plant
           ③ addressing the improvement in non-compliance case                   compliance consultation service (compliance counter)



                                                                      all employees




                                                                                  corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 15

compliance company-wide promotional committee
in august 2003, the compliance company-wide promotional committee headed by the president was formed
in an effort to bolster compliance-related awareness across the group. the committee carries out group-wide,
pro-compliance activities and reviews such undertakings. compliance-related policies and plans decided by
the committee are communicated to each plant, which in turn rolls out individual actions in accordance with
them. all group companies both in japan and abroad have set up their own compliance organizations man-
dated to formulate and conduct individual actions.
    the compliance company-wide promotional committee is held twice a year. in fiscal year 2012, the com-
mittee was held in may and november. each plant of ibiden confirms the progress in its activity goals and
plan, established at the beginning of the fiscal year, at the compliance promotional committee at each plant
held periodically every month. other group companies also review activity goals periodically.

standards for employee behavior
the group has long since stepped up its commitment to compliance, fol-
lowing the introduction of the ibiden standards for employee behavior -
employees’code of conduct. as our overseas operations rapidly expand
with the construction of plants in the philippines, china, france, and hun-
gary, we must now ensure compliance with international rules as well as
with laws and regulations prevailing in the countries where we do busi-
ness. recognizing this, the group undertook a full review of its compliance
program to improve the framework and revised the ibiden standards for
employee behavior in fiscal year 2003.
   at the group, all officers and employees are determined to respect the
standards for employee behavior and create a group of companies that
are good corporate citizens in the eyes of the international community.            we have established the ibiden
                                                                                   standards for employee behavior,
                                                                                   which serve as compliance guidelines
revision to the standards for employee behavior                                    for officers and employees.

the ibiden standards for employee behavior are continually evolving in light of the globalization of our ex-
panding business operations. taking into consideration the expectations of our stakeholders, we add and
revise provisions on worker rights with which we must comply as internal standards. we have also established
the standards for employee behavior based on such international standards at our main production plants
overseas, and we are making efforts to provide thorough education on human rights and ethics according to
these standards.
    upon the revision of the ibiden group charter of behavior, in fiscal year 2011, ibiden reorganize the code
of conduct so that employees who must comply with it can understand it more easily, and we continue our
efforts to promote their compliance.

compliance training
when promoting compliance activities, it is crucial that employee aware-
ness is continuously maintained at a high level.
    the company runs a broad array of education programs including lev-
el-specific and workplace-specific training designed to enhance employee
awareness of the importance of compliance. these programs include
group discussions on causes of violations of the employees’code of con-
duct and actions taken in response to the violations. they educate every
single trainee in consciously deciding on the right action in a given situa-
tion.
    we also enable new employees to deepen their understanding of csr              csr training for new employee is
                                                                                   conducted to deepen employees’
and what violation of compliance is through discussions based on familiar          understanding of compliance through
cases.                                                                             familiar case example


establishment of educational system and enhancement of educational programs
all employees of the company took compliance education programs (attendance rate: 100%). however, im-
provement of awareness through repeated education is necessary to make employees thoroughly understand
the importance of compliance. in fiscal year 2012, we reviewed csr compliance training as our level-specific
education and established a system that enables all ibiden employees to undergo training periodically. we
prepare programs after clarifying the subjects of training and purposes of implementation for all staff from di-
rectors and managers to dispatched workers and temporary employees. in fiscal year 2012, we particularly
strengthened education for those working within processes in plants, and introduced a program for them to
re-acknowledge the importance of the standards for employee behavior through e-learning. in fiscal year
2012, a total of about 2,900 employees took ibiden’   s level-specific csr compliance training.

                                                             corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 16

day-to-day compliance training
 to help employees better understand the details of the standards for employee behavior, we issued the
“case book,”in which enlightenment cases for the standards for employee behavior are compiled, to make
 employees thoroughly aware of the need for compliance. in addition, we continually provide examples of
 compliance practices on our own csr portal site on the intranet of the company as another way to improve
 staff awareness. such compliance practices are also checked according to the respective activities at meet-
 ings, including morning meetings, every week. from fiscal year 2012, we have been managing the status of
 activities by small group at each plant, and confirming that activities are carried out by all small groups.


compliance by directors
when establishing a compliance system, it is crucial that all executives and managers be at the forefront of
the efforts. as september is csr month, executives and the management persons responsible for csr attend
workshops by external instructors to gain a clear understanding of their role as managers.
    in fiscal year 2012, following international moves to eliminate illegality, including recent enhancement of
laws and regulations in various countries, we held compliance lectures given by outside corporate auditors as
part of our efforts to further strengthen director and managers’understanding of fair business practices.
    furthermore, executives must conduct themselves in accordance with the standards for employee behav-
ior in both their personal and professional lives, as the standards include items relevant to individual executive
such as regulations regarding competition as well as conflict of interest.


whistleblowing system
after learning of any suspected compliance violation in the group,
employees are generally required to report it, to consult, and to
take action using the chain of command between the superior
and the subordinate. we have, however, established a compli-
ance consultation service for quickly solving any problem that
cannot be reported through the usual channels. the service is             compliance consultation service card
available not only to employees of ibiden group companies but                  distributed to all employees
to all those working for the group.
   the compliance consultation service is based on protecting the rights of whistleblowers, in ways including
securing the anonymity and privacy of persons who seek consultation and guaranteeing to ban giving them
any disadvantageous treatment. the service is available not only to employees of ibiden group companies
but also to all those working for the group. we endeavor to make the service known to everyone by distrib-
uting cards which describe how to use the service and putting up posters. we provide three access channels
                                                                       s office, and the other at an outside or-
to facilitate consultation: one inside the company, another at a lawyer’
ganization.

in fiscal year 2012, we provided consultations in 50 cases (70 cases in the previous year) for the entire group
in japan. though none of them significantly affected our business activities, 10 cases were issues that could
lead to issues related to potential harassment in the relationship between superiors and subordinates. most
of the cases were attributable to lack of communication. we strive to prevent recurrence by giving guidance
to managers in terms of properly communicating, including helping them to understand their positions as ad-
ministrators and ensuring they appropriately use words.
    to discover and deal with problems as early as possible, we will continue our educational activities to en-
hance our reliability by offering a consultation service that can be safely used by those who seek consultation.
in addition, we have set up a consultation service for our supplier. we create an environment where we not
only offer consultations internally but also gather valuable feedback on ibiden’   s compliance from our regular
supplier.




                                                             corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 17

self-check of activities and opinion poll
we conduct a self-check on the status of compliance with the standards for employee behavior and a survey
on compliance awareness every year, covering all employees including those of domestic group companies.
   in the self-check, employees subject to the self-check, including employees holding managerial posts, diag-
nose the state of compliance with items of the standards for employee behavior, and compliance-related
challenges at each group company or plant are clarified through summarizing the results of the diagnosis. any
problem identified in this process will be addressed through remedial activities at group companies and
plants in the following fiscal year. we link little understood topics with educational programs. for instance,
case studies illustrating compliance-related issues that many test-takers failed to answer correctly are pub-
lished to increase their understanding.
   in the opinion poll, the degree of satisfaction with the workplace and/or superiors and risks of injustice at
the workplace are evaluated from various aspects, and features by office organization and those by group
company/plant are analyzed. we monitor changes in employee awareness and reflect the results in the com-
pliance activities and educational programs of the following fiscal year, as is the case with the self-check.


records of compliance
with regard to laws and regulations that affect the company, a list of relevant laws and regulations has been
made and the status of their revisions is monitored, mainly by the legal division. we periodically review the
state of compliance with laws and regulations that have a particularly significant influence on the company.
ibiden has no record of legal violations, such as corruption and information leakage, which have a major im-
pact on business activities in fiscal year 2012.




                                                              corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 18

 csr management in the supply chain

to earn the trust of international community while operating business globally, both the group and the entire
supply chain must responsibly take actions that respond to social demands. we believe that a sustainable
growth of the entire supply chain as well as a higher corporate value will be realized through promotion of
csr activities based on the basic policy of the ibiden group.


basic purchasing policy
1. we comply with laws, regulations and societal norms, and strive to build relationships of trust and mutual
   cooperation with suppliers.
2. we provide suppliers opportunity at a fair deal.
3. we continue to fulfill our social responsibilities including human rights and environmental protection
   through purchasing activities.


ibiden group supplier csr guidelines
ibiden began disclosing requests to suppliers, based on its basic purchasing policies,
in fiscal year 2008 and held a briefing session for 100 suppliers in fiscal year 2009,
confirming the status of their measures. this enabled us to confirm the gap in mea-
sures among the suppliers and recognize the necessity of management, which has led
to more specific improvements in the supply chain.
   in fiscal year 2011, ibiden published ibiden group supplier csr guidelines fol-
lowing the changes in the ibiden group charter of behavior. these guidelines
provide our suppliers with items desired for the entire supply chain by our customers,
the industry and the international community as well as the group. the items are di-
vided into sub-categories according to themes such as labor, health and safety,
environment protection, ethics and fair business practices. these guidelines also al-
low us to thoroughly understand the risks from several viewpoints such as worksite safety, respect for and
dignified treatment of employees, and the consideration given to the environment, which in turn allows us to
make improvements.


communication and cooperation with supplier
                                    we also invited our major suppliers after the publication of the guidelines
                                    to our briefing session to share with them, in addition to the group itself,
                                    specific challenges ahead as they play an important supporting role in
                                    matters such as material supply, subcontracting, and procuring of tempo-
                                    rary staff. starting from fiscal year 2011, we began activities to verify and/
                                    or remedy challenges concerning activities at suppliers by ensuring in-
                                    house resources, including fostering of auditors, and conducting
                                    investigations into suppliers as well as making site visits and audits.
                                       in fiscal year 2012, we expanded the range of target suppliers and
hosted a briefing session for all subcontractors, subcontractors working on premises and temporary staffing
agencies while confirming the status of efforts by suppliers. we focus on improving their understanding of our
ideas through direct communications. no serious violations were identified through investigations into and au-
dits on supplies in fiscal year 2012. as for other violations, we asked the relevant suppliers to submit
improvement plans and responded to them.
   we are developing similar guidelines for the ibiden group’
                                                            s locations in japan and overseas. in the philip-
pines, malaysia and hungary, we have prepared their guidelines and performed assessment, while some
suppliers underwent audits in china. we will continue to implement our efforts in japan and overseas by ex-
panding the scope of targets, and strive to enhance the competitiveness of csr activities in our supply chain.



                                                            corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 19

ibiden suppliers’compliance counter
the company promotes compliance (rules and regulations, ethical compliance) by establishing the ibiden
group charter of behavior and the ibiden standards for employee behavior. as part of our continued efforts,
we also set up a compliance counter for our suppliers in fiscal year 2011 to which suppliers can report any
compliance problem while dealing with the company. similar to the compliance counter for our internal em-
ployees, the information will be handled with the utmost care for privacy and the supplier will never suffer
prejudicial treatment for contacting the counter. in fiscal year 2012, we continued to make known the compli-
ance counter for our suppliers to all suppliers, and some of them actually sought consultation.


responding to the issue of conflict minerals
illegal mining of resources in conflict areas (the democratic republic of the congo and its surrounding conflict
regions) has become a major international issue as it abets human rights violations. the ibiden group is very
much concerned about the issue of conflict minerals and is addressing the situation with a sense of social re-
sponsibility toward the products it offers.
   our“supplier csr guidelines”clearly state that the suppliers should refrain from illegal mining in conflict
areas as well as procuring resources that may support human rights violations. the company tries its best to
avoid contributing to illegal operations and human rights violations by not utilizing minerals illegally mined in
conflict areas. furthermore, we will conduct reasonable investigations into the mineral supply routes and dis-
close the findings in good faith.
   since fiscal year 2011, we have been sharing with our suppliers the issues involving conflict minerals as
                   s approach during a briefing session. we also conduct supplier surveys to verify their
well as the company’
supply routes. furthermore, we conduct visits at some of our suppliers’facilities and other related refining
companies to explain the extent of the effort as well as verify the supply routes and their traceability (history
of materials, parts, and process).
   in fiscal year 2012, we updated supply chain information in february 2013. we also plan to conduct an
update survey by december 2013 for fiscal year 2013. we will continue to periodically verify the status of use
of conflict minerals by our suppliers and see to it that we play no part in violation of human rights in the com-
    s supply chain.
pany’




                                                             corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 20

human resource management


in line with the ibiden way, we are committed to respecting the creativity and personality of each and every
employee and to value a corporate culture that allows its diverse human resources to fully display their
knowledge and capabilities.


 philosophy for human resource management and promotional structure

basic approach                                                                                                 ○ d i a g ra m o f i p m act i v i t i e s
employees are the driving force that enables us to run our business                                              management of business                     management capability

and provide the public with valued service. we aim to create vibrant                                            ● ability to construct a business       <underlying capability for all management>
                                                                                                                ●
                                                                                                                 ability to become no.1 in customer     ● capability to plan and operate the business

workplaces in which each individual employee derives a sense of sat-                                                satisfaction                        ● capability to manage


isfaction and achievement from gaining a thorough understanding of
                                                                                                                ● ability to generate ongoing profits   ● operating the management system




the company’   s management policies and business strategies, and
from having a role to play that enables each employee to contribute                                                                             management
                                                                                                                                                 of business
to both the company and society.
    as one of the measures to achieve this goal, we have also intro-
duced personnel systems and training programs to enable each                                                                                management
employee to display his or her creativity and versatile personality.                                                               management
                                                                                                                                              capability
                                                                                                                                                             total
                                                                                                                                       of                 productive
                                                                                                                                   technology            management


human resource management through ipm activities                                                                management of technology                total productive management
ipm stands for ibiden profit management, and ipm activities advance            ability to understand market and ●       san-hozen activity             ●
                                                                               customer needs                             (integrating quality maintenance, autonomous
and integrate the four ibi-techno capabilities: management of busi-            ability to achieve the development goals
                                                                                                                ●
                                                                                                                          maintenance, and planned maintenance)
                                                                                                                         ability to launch design qcd   ●

ness, management of technology, total productive management, and                cross-industrial    integration ability
                                                                                                                ●
                                                                                                                         qcd competitiveness during stable
                                                                                                                                                        ●
                                                                                use of experts                            mass production
management capability. through these activities, we will create our
                                                                                                                ●




own unique management techniques and grow sales and profits as
well as personnel.
    we introduced an e-learning system, developing an environment in which employees are motivated to take
skill development training voluntarily. in fiscal year 2012, forming an organization-wide working group through
ipm activities, we made efforts to offer thorough self-development content. in fiscal year 2013, we will en-
hance the professional education of functional divisions and continue to cultivate a corporate culture that
further promotes self-learning.

constitution of employees[ibiden]
                                                 fy 2011         fy 2012
  number of employees              persons         3,385          3,549
   managerial positions            persons          317             313
            officers               persons           16             17
         average age                 years          35.4           35.5
      length of service              years          12.3           12.4
 number of workers who
                                   persons           60             79
   left the company



number of employee by business segment and area [ibiden group]
                                                                                                        north america 0.7%


                                  other
                                  10.9%                                                              europe
                        other                                                                         19.7%
                       operation
construction            10.1% total number of                                                              total number of
operation 3.9%                   employees by                                                                employees
                                                 electronics
housing materials               business segment operation                                                     by area                      japan
operation 2.6%                     11,879          46.8%                                                      11,879                        49.6%
                                     people                                                         asia        people
                                                                                                   30.0%
                         ceramics operation
                               25.7%


*note: not included are temporary employees (5,857 on average).
*note:	number of employees by area is calculated based on the regions where bases of group companies are located. about 80% of tempo-
        rary employees are hired in asia.
                                                                          corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 21

 respect for human rights

respect for worker rights
the ibiden group clearly defines its basic policy to support and respect the protection of human rights, as
well as to avoid involvement in any violation of human rights. the ibiden standards for employee behavior
spells out such policy, stipulating that officers and employees respect the basic principles and rights of labor
and take actions that follow the common sense and rules of society while complying with the employment-re-
lated laws of each country such as the labor standards law and labor regulations.

human rights education
to ensure respect for human rights, the group offers education on fair employment and human rights, particu-
larly to labor relations managers as well as managers and staff members in charge of recruitment interviews,
calling their attention to the prevention of human-rights violations. ibiden also distributes the ibiden stan-
dards for employee behavior and example booklets, a collection of violation examples, to all employees at
the time of hiring. in our new employee training or education programs offered at the time of hiring, we edu-
cate our employees to promote the understanding of the ibiden standards for employee behavior, including
dealing with human rights issues, as well as to ensure that the standards are reflected in their actions.
    we also strive to make our policies, including labor regulations and the standards for employee behavior,
known to everyone at group companies. in particular, we focus on educational activities in major production
companies in the asian region, driving our policies home to all employees at the time of hiring.

assessment
for the group to make advances in human rights initiatives, the cooperation of the entities comprising the en-
tire supply chain beyond the group is indispensable. in ibiden group supplier csr guidelines, we specifically
request that labor-related human rights be observed, including bans on child labor and forced labor. activities
for compliance with the csr guidelines are being promoted within the group, and we confirm the state of com-
pliance by business partners by sending out periodic questionnaires.
    in fiscal year 2012, we conducted a survey based on the csr guidelines, targeting group companies in ja-
pan and abroad, and provided them with guidance, aiming to enhance their understanding. we endeavor to
raise the level of compliance activities in the philippines and malaysia by conducting internal audits based on
industry standards.
    furthermore, in fiscal year 2011, we started holding a survey among business partners regarding specific
items to be tackled in terms of labor and human rights in the csr guidelines and their management. in fiscal
year 2012, we continued to conduct a survey among major business partners, and audited some business
partners and provided guidance to contractors and temporary help agencies.
    as a result of the survey and audit in fiscal year 2012, we found no cases of major violations that could
lead to the violation of worker rights. with regard to cases that could violate the guidelines, we asked the rel-
evant business partners to submit improvement plans. thus, we proceed with improvement, including
correction of practices and expressions in documents that could lead to discrimination of workers.



 equitable evaluation and treatment

policies on equitable evaluation and treatment
the company evaluates individual results equitably and handles personnel affairs fairly and equitably. under a
personnel system featuring fair and equitable evaluation, we will create a corporate culture in which each em-
ployee mutually respects diversity, can demonstrate his or her ability to the maximum and finds his or her job
rewarding.

the company adopts a job-based grade system, which helps revitalize all employees, under which work is
evaluated into grades based on the volume and importance of job results and job grades are set accordingly.
furthermore, the relationship between positions available according to qualifications and job grades is clari-
fied. employees in the same evaluation rank in the same job grade are equitably treated, regardless of
attributes such as their sex, age and race and nationality. we distribute a labor management guidebook that
describes these job grades and their evaluation system to all employees.

fair and equitable employee evaluation
the company has in place a results-oriented target management assessment system. challenge goals closely
related to the company’   s business results are first established, and the results as well as the process for
reaching those results are then evaluated fairly and equitably. finally, individual results are directly reflected in
their remunerations. furthermore, our aim is that better“communication between the superior and the subor-
dinate”will be encouraged through the process of goal-setting, interim interviews and evaluation interviews.
the target management system also provides ample opportunities for“professional development”for the
subordinate.
                                                               corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 22

   based on a job-based grade system based on work and jobs, we realize optimum personnel arrangement
and create a workplace that satisfies employees. we do so through establishing challenging goals under the
target management assessment system and implementing fair and equitable evaluation, as well as a remuner-
ation system that reflects results in remunerations, a human resource development system and various other
systems.

for equitable evaluation and treatment
the human resource and labor section formulates various personnel systems, including the target manage-
ment assessment system and remuneration system. based on these systems, the company pushes forward
with proper treatment according to fair and equitable evaluation. to carry out fair and equitable evaluation,
we periodically implement evaluator training for managers and the other evaluators, and provide training in
establishing targets to all persons who are given goals. in addition, we strive to make known to all employees
the target management assessment system and the remuneration system, by distributing a labor management
guidebook that includes detailed explanations of these systems. the company also implements interviews by
the human resource division for those who are transferred or seconded and others as one of the mecha-
nisms for listening to the opinions of employees. we directly investigate into and remedy issues concerning
measures of the company, awareness and evaluation about the workplace and superiors, work and evalua-
tion/treatment of the employees themselves.



 development of human resources

development of global human resources
the ibiden group, which has celebrated its 100th anniversary, aims to build a
human resource development system that leads to the strengthening of its
structure to become a company that moves forward consistently and grows.
to this end, we nurture employees who can contribute to strengthening com-
petitiveness and those who are capable of cross-cultural management.
    first, we have adopted the concept of creating a global human resource
pool, which will allow us to form, from a medium- to long-term perspective, a
group of employees that can succeed on the global stage. in fiscal year 2013,
we plan to launch a selection-based overseas management training based on
the concept.                                                                              language training
    we provide cross-cultural programs for employees who are seconded to
overseas locations and those who are visiting or are assigned to overseas locations, and we make compa-
ny-wide efforts to upgrade their practical language skills. in addition to english, we began offering language
training in korean and other foreign languages. we also focus on nurturing the core staff of our overseas enti-
ties by inviting them to participate in training programs in japan.

human resource development system of ibiden
to build a human resource development system that leads to the strengthening of its structure to become a
company that moves forward consistently and grows, ibiden clarifies the desired candidate profile by qualifi-
cation. it then roughly classifies the education it implements into: company-wide education; selective
education; environmental/occupational health and safety education; and professional education. in compa-
ny-wide education, we nurture employees who can define medium- and long-term visions by understanding
the original way of doing business of the company as well as csr management and exploiting management
tools, in addition to global human resources. environmental/occupational and health and safety education is
aimed at fostering employees who can help to create a pleasant and safe working environment. professional
education is designed to nurture specialists by occupation who have both improvement skills and motivation
by clarifying the desired candidate profile, abilities and skills corresponding to qualifications and occupation.

training records for fiscal year 2012 (ibiden)
・total training hours: 77,676 hours/year; training hours per person: 24.1 hours/year/person

encouraging career development
the company supports the career development of its employees through having talks with them during inter-
views with superiors, who are evaluators, about their requests concerning career development in the future.
during these talks, their career development is reviewed through discussions on the skills that the employees
want to improve at present or in the future, expectations of superiors about each employee, and support
policies.


                                                             corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 23

  respecting diverse work styles

 along with the progress in globalization and diversification of values, ibiden strives to realize a working envi-
 ronment and culture that allow a wide variety of employees to demonstrate their unique abilities and find
 their life and work meaningful.

 supporting work life balance
 the company considers it part of its social responsibility to create an environ-
 ment in which children, our future leaders, can grow up healthy and safe. to
 this end, we actively encourage work-life balance (harmony between work and
 private life) by, for example, helping our employees to achieve a balance be-
 tween work and child rearing.
     in fiscal year 2012, ibiden was accredited by the gifu labor bureau as an
 accredited business operator pursuant to the“act on advancement of mea-
 sures to support raising next-generation children,”acquiring the“kurumin”
 next-generation accreditation mark. under the second action plan formulated
                                                                                  indication established by minister
 in august 2010, we implemented initiatives by putting up such goals as making
                                                                                  of health, labour and welfare in
 known to everyone the system concerning work-life balance support and im-
                                                                                  article 14, paragraph 1 of the act
 plementation of a regular working day with no overtime hours. in fiscal year
                                                                                  on advancement of measures to
 2012, we achieved all the goals and satisfied the accreditation standards es-    support raising next-generation
 tablished by the ministry of health, labour and welfare.                         children (“kurumin”mark)
     pursuant to the action plan, the company changed the parental leave sys-
 tem in november 2012 to enable employees who are waiting for a vacancy in nurseries for their children to
 take parental leave until their children turn two. the number of employees who used this parental leave sys-
 tem in fiscal year 2012 stands at 33, of who two are male. in addition, with an increase in the number of
 persons seconded to overseas locations, we started a re-employment system for those who accompany em-
 ployees loaned to overseas locations as a system to support families who accompany them. we also
 extended the period of application of the part-time working system for employees who bring up children.
 thus, we are enhancing our systems to make them easier for employees to use them. to create a working en-
 vironment that allows employees to work positively and vigorously, we will review and consider a
 discretionary labor system and other working arrangements, and further encourage employees to take annual
 paid leave.

 promotion of female advancement
 the company began its promotion activities for female advancement in fiscal year
 2010. for phase i, a period up to fiscal year 2012, we focused on raising awareness
 and introducing the program. in fiscal year 2012, following further globalization of
 business, we implemented optimum personnel arrangements, regardless of gender, in-
 cluding the loaning of staff to overseas locations. we also started offering consultation
 interviews in fiscal year 2012 to those who are returning to work after a parental
 leave to alleviate any anxiety, which will allow for a smooth transition. besides the en-
 hancement of systems, we implement education to future candidates for managerial
 posts, aimed at creating a workplace where women can be active, and provide en-
 lightenment training to employees holding managerial posts so that understanding of
 these work-life balance supporting systems and creation of a worker-friendly work-            ibiden’ s parenting
 place environment will be proactively promoted actually in the workplace. to create           handbook to support
                                                                                               balancing work and
 an environment in which female workers can be active through the future, we called
                                                                                               childbirth/child rearing
 upon female employees to participate in various in-house meetings and committees
 from the viewpoint of establishing an environment that considers women and enhance systems that take into
 account child care and the family environment. actually, the opinions of women were adopted, leading to im-
 provements, in the feeding service committee.
     for phase ii, which starts from fiscal year 2013, we will focus on reviewing and establishing measures. we
 will establish our initiatives by developing them into effective activities through a review of measures. in fiscal
 year 2013, we will develop a corporate culture that is sympathetic to the proactive actions of women not
 only by having messages sent from the company but also by listening to firsthand views, including those given
 in interviews with women who are currently playing active parts, and promote activities to make in-house
 awareness come to stay. we will continue to support the proactive actions of female employees through
“growing corporate culture,”     “career development and appointments”and“supporting work-life balance,”so
 that women with abilities and motivation can be active at all stages of their lives.




                                                                corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 24

◆three core activity areas

【growing corporate culture】
we hold various events and training sessions to raise awareness throughout the company and communicate
these activities through our company bulletin.

【career development and appointments】
we introduce educational programs to further enhance the ability of ambitious women and develop and in-
troduce ideal role models for our female employees.

【supporting work-life balance】
we implement childcare leave, short-term working hours and other programs to support a work-life balance
so that both men and women can continue to work while they raise children. we introduce these programs
by issuing a childrearing handbook.


employment of persons with disabilities
there are a healthy number of active employees with disabilities at the company. the number and percent-
age of employees with disabilities in fiscal year 2011 was 41 ones and 1.87%, respectively. we will continue
to respect the philosophy of normalization and maintain a working environment in which employees with dis-
abilities can fully demonstrate their abilities.


post-retirement reemployment system
we instituted a post-retirement reemployment system in fiscal 2004 to enable our most experienced employ-
ees to display their capabilities as part of our valued workforce.


         （persons）                                               number of employees with disabilities       （%）                                                                      maternity and child-care leave
                                                                                                                                                                 （persons）
                                                                 percentage of employees with disabilities                                                                            nursing care leave
                                                                                                             2.5
                                                                                                                   (percentage of employees with disabilities)




                                                   70            statutory employment rate                                                                            35                                               33
         (number of employees with disabilities)




                                                                                                   2.08
                                                   60               1.98                                                                                              30
                                                                               1.94                          2.0
                                                          1.89                           1.87
                                                   50    1.8                                         47                                                               25

                                                           39         40        40        41                 1.5                                                                                  20
                                                   40                                                                                                                 20     19
                                                                                                                                                                                                            17
                                                                                                                                                                                        16
                                                   30                                                                                                                 15
                                                                                                             1.0

                                                   20                                                                                                                 10
                                                                                                             0.5
                                                   10                                                                                                                  5
                                                                                                                                                                                  2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1          1
                                                                                                                                                                                           0         0
                                                    0                                                        0                                                         0
                                                          2008      2009      2010       2011      2012 （fy）                                                                 2008       2009      2010      2011       2012 （fy）

                                                        trends in the number of employees                                                                               track record of the leave programs
                                                             with disabilities [ibiden]                                                                                              [ibiden]




                                                                                                                                                                    corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 25

 labor and management cooperation to create a worker-friendly workplace

through a relationship of mutual trust, both the management and workers of ibiden work together to create
a workplace that is friendly for all employees.
   in fiscal year 2012, negotiations were held between labor and management with a focus on concrete co-
operation-related themes such as reduction of overwork, encouragement of acquisition of annual paid leave,
promotion of the proactive actions of female employees, increase of mental and physical health and support
for employees loaned to overseas locations. we did this in the areas of working-hour management, creation
of a worker-friendly workplace and improvement in personnel systems. the central labor council, the labor
and management gathering and the labor and management committee are held every month to review the
status of progress in discussion themes and deliberate on ways to improve the working environment so that
employees can safely work toward the goals of their workplace.

working hour management
an increase in workload due to extremely long hours of working is one of the causes of work-related health
hazards.
   in an effort to raise employees’awareness of working-hour management, we have them use the atten-
dance system to check their data, which is designed to ensure accurate working hours, and promote the
reduction of overtime work. our goal is to cut the amount of overtime work by boosting operational efficien-
cy, which can be achieved by making employees aware of the accurate working hours and through better
communication between superiors and subordinates, allowing them to review and rethink the work process
and system.
   the company focuses on efforts for working-hour management, including initiatives for promoting the ac-
quisition of annual paid leave and activities aimed at reducing overtime work. this includes sending a warning
to workers who are found to possibly violate rules on overtime work by monitoring through the system or to
their managers. furthermore, as a theme for fiscal year 2012, we provided living support and implemented
working-hour management to employees loaned to overseas locations, whose number had increased accom-
panying our expansion into overseas areas. in fiscal year 2013, we will build a more accurate management
system so that the working hours of employees who are active on the global stage can be managed in real
time.

creating a worker-friendly workplace
as a part of our 100th anniversary project, we are planning specifically to improve our physical work environ-
ment. to promote female employee advancement, the company worked on institutional improvement and
awareness reform through enhancing various support systems, establishing consultation interviews to those
who are returning to work after a parental leave, and implementing managerial posts training for employees
who could be promoted to managerial posts posts. to promote mental and physical heath, we had occupa-
tional health physicians evaluate and analyze the results of mental health diagnosis and make proposals. we
also prepared an example booklet and offered study meetings to enable employees to deepen their under-
standing of the causes of mental health trouble using the booklet.

communication between labor and management
in the company, management policies, items related to production plans and items concerning hiring policies
are explained to labor unions, and items that seriously affect employees are deliberated through the central
labor council, mentioned above. in addition, the company provides opportunities for dialogue at various lev-
els between the management and workers, including the labor and management committee, which is held at
each plant, with a view to facilitating a good labor-management relationship and corporate business activities.

 thoroughgoing compliance with labor-related laws

the ibiden group takes actions in line with common sense and the rules of society while complying with the
employment-related laws of each country such as the labor standards law and labor regulations.
    the group monitors the state of revision or abolition of laws and regulations that should be observed, and
promotes compliance with labor-related laws and regulations at its affiliated companies in each country and
region. also, the human resource and labor sections periodically monitor domestic group companies to verify
the status of compliance.
    in fiscal year 2012, problems concerning working-hour management at the time of clocking out at domes-
tic group companies were verified based on investigations by the labor bureau and other authorities, and we
quickly took corrective actions. we had no record of legal violations related to labor laws, such as those per-
taining to minimum wage.


                                                            corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 26

                    measures for occupational health and safety

          we established the occupational health and safety basic policy under the ibiden way, formulated“occupa-
          tional health and safety goals (2007-2012),”and focused on occupational health and safety, specifically, by
          following the activity guidelines for fiscal year 2012.

                               occupational health and safety - basic policy

                             we conduct the health and safety activity done with all concerned people
                             under ibiden way, and aim to harmonize“health and safety”and“opera-
                             tion”with the fundamental rule to minimize the risk that may affect the life
                                                                         s operations.
                             and health of person participating to ibiden’

                               occupational health and safety policy

                             1.	we will identify the sources of risks associated with each process in our
                                 corporate activities and take steps to prevent labor accidents and ill-
                                 nesses. we will strive to reduce the risks and to maintain and enhance
                                 the physical and mental health of our employees.
                             2.	we will provide a good working environment that allows all employees
                                 to work vigorously without anxiety.
                             3.	we will comply with laws and regulations relating to occupational
                                 health and safety and with other recognized requirements.
                             4.	we will operate an occupational health and safety management system       employee carrying
                                 to ensure that every employee engages in occupational health and          occupational health
                                 safety activities and to make continued improvements to attain our oc-    and safety card
                                 cupational health and safety goal.
                             5.	we will ensure that every employee is aware of our occupational health and safety policy, using oc-
                                 cupational health and safety cards and other means to raise their awareness of occupational health
                                 and safety and encourage proactive behavior.
                             6.	we make this policy public and we make it available any time when requested.
                                 we also make this policy available on our website. http://www.ibiden.com/

                    organization chart of occupational health and safety management
                           (promotion organization)                                                    (action organization)                 (audit organization)

                           company-wide environment,
                                                                                                          president & ceo
                                                                                   top management




                           health and safety committee

                                                                                                                                             internal audit committee

                           company-wide zero accident committee                                          director in charge


                            environment, health and
                            safety promotion meeting

                                                                                                    occupational health and safety oﬃcer

                           plant health and safety committee
                                                                                                            plant manager
                           general health and safety manager
(statutory organization)




                                (plant manager)                                                     occupational health and safety manager

                                                                                                          division manager
                                 safety manager
                                 health manager                                                            group manager
                           hygiene engineering health manager                                              team manager
                             (appointed employee)                    operation chief                         team leader
                                                                  (appointed employee)

                           occupational health physician          other statutory managers
                                                                                                                                                              name of
                                                                  (appointed employee)                       section chief                                …
                                                                                                                                                              meeting


                           division zero accident committee                                             safety circle leader                              … organization


                                                                                                                                                              statutory
                           safety promotion circle meeting                                                     employee                                   …
                                                                                                                                                              organization
                                                                                                    corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 27

president, officers and directors as well as the presidents of affiliated companies participate in the compa-
ny-wide environmental/health and safety committee, aimed at sharing the status of activities in accordance
with the environmental/occupational health and safety policies and understanding challenges. committee
members include the chairperson of the labor union. the company-wide zero accident committee is attend-
ed by each plant manager and management persons responsible for promotion at affiliated companies, and it
functions as a place for common understanding in order to implement the plan-do-check-act (pdca) cycle of
activities of the entire ibiden group. moreover, activities are expanded from the committees of plants to
health and safety circles (small group activities) in the workplace, in which all employees participate and carry
out communication related to health and safety and activities to improve the working environment. thus, la-
bor and management promote activities in a body, verifying the status of progress in goals concerning health
and safety.


 fiscal year 2012: activity guidelines for occupational health and safety and results

activity guidelines for fiscal year 2012
with“reduction of occupational accidents and potential incidents and improvement to the working environ-
ment,”  “legal compliance”and“reduction in mental illness and life-style related diseases”as the pillars of our
activities, we implemented occupational health and safety programs for the entire ibiden group, with all
members participating in the activities.
1.	to shift our activities from“accident prevention”to“hazard prevention”by improving the level of risk man-
    agement and responding surely to potential accidents and hazards (hiyari-hatto), and realize accident
    prevention.
2.	to implement priority activities to prevent major disasters/recurrent accidents.
3.	to expand safety activities to subcontractors working on premises.
4.	to realize strict legal compliance through the regular education of legally qualified people in laws and reg-
    ulations as well as through the audits of operations and management.
5.	to carry out activities in which all members participate based on the“health 100 plan.”
	(keywords: exercise habits, blood pressure measuring, quitting smoking, dental health, e-health check and
    overwork)

analysis results of occupational accidents in fiscal year 2011 indicate that:“the number of occupational acci-
dents among inexperienced employees is large”;“the number of occupational accidents among employees
of subcontractors working on premises is large”; and“the number of occupational accidents resulting from
getting caught between/under objects does not reduce.”against this backdrop, we focused on activities to
reduce these accidents.

management indicators
1. status of occurrence of occupational accidents
(1) domestic plants (ibiden)
the number of occupational accidents in seven plants stood at 15 in fiscal year 2012 against 23 in fiscal year
2011 (a year-on-year decrease of 35%).
    in particular, we were able to significantly reduce the number of accidents requiring leave (to one) (a decline
of 88%). in addition, we decreased the“number of occupational accidents among inexperienced employees”by
70% and the“number of occupational accidents among employees of subcontractors working on premises”by
80%. we had emphasized activities to reduce these accidents. we inaugurated“ibiden safety & health promo-
tion meeting for contractors”in april 2012, and held three study meetings a year, targeting the management of
subcontractors working on premises.
                  ibiden group (japan)            ibiden                number of occupational accidents
                  manufacturing industry          all industry          [ibiden and domestic group companies]
 2.00                                                                                           ibiden
                                                                                                                     domestic group
                                                                                                                       companies
 1.80      1.62            1.61            1.62            1.59
 1.60                                                                     fatalities              0（1）                     1（0）
 1.40                                                                     accidents
 1.20      0.99            0.98
                                           1.05            1.00
                                                                          requiring               1（8）                     5（5）
                                                                            leave
 1.00
                                           0.76
 0.80                                                                    accidents
           0.57                                                         not requiring             5（2）                     1（3）
 0.60                      0.47
                                                           0.40             leave
                                           0.65
 0.40      0.18                                                         minor injuries          9（12）                      5（7）
 0.20                      0.31                                  0.08
    0                                                                   *	the figures in parentheses represent the numbers of occupation-
          2009           2010              2011            2012            al accidents in fiscal year 2011
          occupational accident frequency rate*
        [ibiden and domestic group companies]
  *	number of occupational injuries (be equal or more than
    accidents requiring leave) for every million cumulative actual
    working hour                                                         corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 28

(2) domestic affiliated companies
the number of occupational accidents was 12 in fiscal year 2012 against 14 in fiscal year 2011 (a year-on-
year decrease of 14%).
   however, there was fatality involving an employee of a subcontractor in construction work, and we are
promoting drastic activities to prevent serious accidents.

(3) contract work
the number of occupational accidents was 2 in fiscal year 2012 against 3 in fiscal year 2011 (a year-on-year
decrease of 33%)
   we have been promoting improvement of the health and safety management level by holding the“ibiden
safety & health promotion meeting for contractors”three times a year since fiscal year 2010.

2. overwork and persons suffering from mental health problems
we managed to reduce the number of persons subject to measures to ensure health and welfare concerning
overwork (by 81%) and the number of persons suffering from mental health problem (by 45%) through en-
hancing working-hour management, led by the top management, and expanding education to promote good
mental health.



 managing employee health

health 100 plan
to create a working environment that allows employees to work positively and vigorously, it is also important
to help them improve their physical and mental health. since fiscal year 2008, ibiden has been dedicated to
the improvement of employee health through the 5-year“health100 plan.”
    in fiscal year 2012, we promoted activities to achieve numeral targets related to health by encouraging ac-
tivities to improve health, led by domestic health subcommittees and in cooperation with each plant.
    we made efforts to enhance employees’awareness of health by holding health improvement events at caf-
eterias. also, to prevent employees from suffering from mental health problems, each employee inputs data to
the e-health check system, which enables him or her to check the degree of his or her mental and physical
stress, and occupational health physicians conduct organizational analysis of the input results, detect prob-
lems and make proposals. we prepared an example booklet for early detection of and response to persons
suffering from mental health problems, and occupational health physicians give explanations at study meet-
ings and level-specific training to promote our efforts. in addition, we built a structure to provide mental care
to employees transferred following organizational changes. starting from fiscal year 2013, we will promote ini-
tiatives for improvement of health, covering employees who are active on a global stage and families of
employees as well, under our consolidated medium-term management plan,“challenge ibi-techno 105
plan.”
activity plan and management indicators
(1)	increase in the number of persons who maintain a proper weight (bmi 18.5–25)
(2)	increase in the number of persons who have developed exercise habits (30 minutes or more/day, twice or
    more/week)
(3)	decline in the ratio of smokers
(4)	improvement of ability to cope with stress




                                                             corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 29

environmental management



keeping environmental preservation in business in mind, we will thoroughly eliminate the loss of resources
and energy in order to contribute to social development efficiently. we will dedicate ourselves to environmen-
tal protection by offering technologies and products designed to reduce the environmental burden.

 environmental management - basic policy
we conduct the environmental load reduction activity with all concerned people
under ibiden way, aim “harmony with nature” by reducing the bad effect on
global environment generated in our business operation, and fulfill the role as
enduring company.

 environmental policy
1.	we contribute to protecting the global environmental by minimizing the envi-
    ronmental burden in every process of our company’   s activities. we especially
    value water and its benefits to the earth.
2.	we continuously promote positive and effective use of clean energy by devel-
    oping and improving eco-technology that saves energy and resources.
3.	we comply with environmental rules and regulations of domestic and inter-
    national countries. we set our own standards and advance our environmental
    management capabilities.
4.	we encourage all employees to share the purpose and goals of environmen-
                                                                                       employee carrying
    tal protection and devote themselves to environmental protection activities.
                                                                                    environmental policy card
    we accomplish this by utilizing an environmental management system.
5.	we publicize this environmental policy by distributing a policy carrying card
    to promote awareness of environmental protection and to inspire each employee to act voluntarily.
6.	we make this policy public and we make it available any time when requested.
	we also make this policy available on our website. http://www.ibiden.com/

 organization chart of environmental management
grounded in values that emphasize harmony with nature, we are working group-wide to promote environ-
mental management. with the president as the head of the companywide environmental management
system, we have established the workplace-based environment committee led by the head of each work-
place to facilitate environmental management.
 (consultative/promotion organization)                      (action organization)                         (audit/regulation organization)

                                                                                                                     internal audit
                                         top management




                                                              president & ceo
                                                                                                                       committee
                                                             director in charge of
                                                          environmental management
  company-wide environment,                                                                                    pollution control supervisor
  health and safety committee
                                                                                                                   (plant manager)
                                                          environmental management


                                                                                                                                                          *appointing manager necessary for plants
   environment, health and                                       representative
  safety promotion meeting                                                                                      pollution control manager
                                                                plant manager                                  (appointed employee)


                                                                                                                waste control manager
  plant environment committee                                                                                  (appointed employee)
                                                          environmental representative
                                                                                                              waste control facilities engineering
                                                                                                              manager (appointed employee)
  plant consultative organization                             division manager
                                                                                                              special management industrial
                                                                                                              waste management representative
 *operating with organization of                                                                              (appointed employee)
  section meeting necessary for                                group manager
  each plants                                                  team manager                                    other statutory managers
                                                                                                               (appointed employees)
                                                                team leader


                                                                  employee                                   waste control operator
                                                                   member
                                                                                                           pollution causing facilities manager
                                                                                                          appointed in the presence of the relevant facilities

other than the above, we held a monthly“training camp”under the theme of ecological losses, promoting ac-
tivities designed to reduce overall environmental losses. moreover, we hold meetings organized by
environmental protection promoters who are designated by each operational division while the entire group
shares information on environmental protection in the global conference on the environment.

                                                                              corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 30

 management system certification status
domestic group companies certified with iso 14001 and ohsas 18001
we are pursuing iso14001 and ohsas18001* certification with an in-house management system as the means
to continuously improve the environmental footprint caused by the group’s activities, products and services.
   together with ibiden electronics industries co., ltd., ibiden graphite co., ltd., ibitech co., ltd. and
ibiden engineering co., ltd. (water treatment division), which are directly linked to our business activities, we
obtained iso14001 certification in january 2000 and ohsas18001 certification in march 2003. since fiscal
year 2011, we have been operating a management system that integrates both iso 14001 and ohsas 18001
certifications. in fiscal year 2012, domestic group companies worked to build a management system with the
aim of obtaining ohsas 18001 certification. ibiden greentec co., ltd., ibiden jushi co., ltd. and ibiden bus-
san co., ltd. acquired ohsas18001 certification in january, march and may 2013, respectively.
   each workplace has an assigned full-time head (plant manager), and the environmental committee and the
health and safety committee are led by the head of each workplace based on the plan-do-check-act (pdca)
cycle of activities. a meeting consisting of heads of workplaces is held monthly where information is ex-
changed on inter-workplace activities, with a goal to increase the level of all ibiden workplaces.

* ohsas18001: a standard for occupational health and safety management systems. ohsas stands for occupational health and
   safety assessment series.


              acquisition status of the iso14001 and ohsas18001 certifications for domestic group companies
name of the                               ibiden engineering
                         ibiden*                             ibiden greentec ibiden bussan         ibiden industries ibiden jushi
group company                             (head office)
iso14001cert.            jan. 2000        oct. 2002          mar. 2004          may. 2005          sep. 2005         jun. 2009
ohsas18001cert.          mar. 2003            planning       jan. 2013          may. 2013          aug. 2012         mar. 2013

* ibiden domestic premises (ogaki, ogaki central, aoyanagi, gama, ogaki-kita, kinuura, godo) and including some domestic
   group(ibiden electronics industries, ibiden engineering(water treatment section), ibiden graphite, ibitech, ibiden kenso).



overseas group companies certified with iso 14001 and ohsas 18001
in our group, not only domestic group companies but also overseas group companies are working to obtain
iso 14001 and ohsas 18001 certification.
   ibiden electronics malaysia sdn. bhd., a new base in southeast asia, obtained iso14001 and ohsas18001
certificates in march 2013. ibiden philippines, inc. and ibiden hungary kft. are working to acquire the ohsas
1 8 0 0 1 certificate. in the future, we will continue with efforts to obtain this certification for overseas group
companies. in fiscal year 2013, we will work to build a management system at our manufacturing bases in eu-
rope with the aim of obtaining both iso14001 and ohsas18001 certifications.

              acquisition status of the iso14001 and ohsas18001 certifications for overseas group companies

name of the              ibiden philip-   ibiden electron-   ibiden electron-   ibiden electron-                     ibiden dpf
                                                                                                   ibiden hungary
group company            pines            ics (malaysia)     ics (beijing)      ics (shanghai)                       france

iso14001cert.            jun. 2003        mar. 2013          jul 2003           feb. 2005          feb. 2007
                                                                                                                         planning
ohsas18001cert.              planning     mar. 2013          mar. 2007                 ―               planning




 environment and occupational health and safety-related laws and regulations
ibiden focuses on compliance with laws and regulations related to the environment and occupational health
and safety.
    aiming to achieve zero violations in fiscal year 2012, we received no administrative correction or guidance
in terms of environmental, occupational health or safety from the concerned government ministries in japan.
we also had no record of penalties or sanctions related to violations of environmental, occupational health or
safety laws and regulations.
    in the future, we will continue to work to ensure compliance. in fiscal year 2013, with the aim at achieving
zero violations, we will promote the following compliance activities: building of a global management system
in compliance with chemical substance-related laws and regulations in terms of the environment, and the im-
plementation of both regular education and audit operational management of laws and regulations in terms
of occupational health and safety.


                                                                        corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 31

 guidelines for environmental activities
in fiscal year 2012, we made“energy loss reduction,”  “effective use of resources,” “reduction of environment
risks”and“stable supply of electricity/steam/cold water”the pillars of our activities, making company-wide
efforts toward environmental protection as the ibiden group. in fiscal year 2013, we will continue to implement
the same pillars of the activities as follows.
1．we will reduce environmental loss through environment-related organization activities such as an eco-loss
    training camp to improve energy and resource loss reduction.
2．we will reduce energy loss through energy management in conjunction with load curtailment.
3．we will check for environmental loss at the time of improvement (change) to enhance the effectiveness of
    improvement.
4．we will enhance guidelines for earthquake disaster secondary prevention and achieve zero risk in terms of
    emergency environmental pollution.
5．we will build a global management system in compliance with chemical substance-related laws and regu-
    lations to achieve zero violations.
6．we will secure a stable supply of electricity/steam/cold water through risk management.

aiming to thoroughly eliminate the loss of resources and energy in business, we place emphasis on energy
loss as one of the themes for company-wide loss reduction efforts. we extract, analyze and classify energy
loss caused by demand sides and supply sides, sharing information and confirming progress in the“training
camp”addressing the topic of ecological losses.



 coping with climate change issues
through private power generation activities to supply clean energy as well as energy conservation efforts in
manufacturing activities, we are working to reduce direct greenhouse gas emissions. to upgrade our private
power generation systems, we are boosting our hydroelectric power generation capacity, improving thermal
power generation efficiency, and promoting fuel conversion. with regard to energy conservation efforts in
manufacturing activities, we are accelerating the improvement of energy conservation practices throughout
the company by strengthening companywide co2 reduction activities, while all manufacturing divisions man-
age the basic unit of energy consumption and set specific targets for each division.

measures to supply clean energy
the ibiden group can trace its history back to a scheme aimed at building a hydroelectric power plant up-
stream on the ibigawa river to supply power and attract industry and thereby help revitalize the nearby city
of ogaki. the group was established under the name ibigawa electric company in 1912, but over time began
to utilize electricity to evolve into an electrochemical company. we have continued to expand our business
since then, including areas such as carbides, carbon, building materials, ceramic products and electronic prod-
ucts, as we have grown and developed hand in hand with local communities.
   ibiden owns three hydroelectric power plants in the upstream section of ibigawa river in gifu prefecture.
hydraulic power generation uses the potential energy of water to create clean energy without greenhouse
gas emissions.




              hirose power plant             kawakami power plant             higashi-yokoyama power plant
            power output: 8,900kw            power output: 4,100kw               power output: 13,600kw




                                                            corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 32

we introduced a co-generation system in 1992 to use clean                             private generated electricity with
                                                                                      hydroelectric generation system
                                                                                                                                  private generated electricity with
                                                                                                                                  co-generation system
energy instead of purchased electric power, increasing our         （1,000mwh）
                                                                                       purchased electricity                      private generated electricity with
                                                                                                                                  solar power generation system
clean energy supply. while generating power from turbines             600       repair works for
                                                                                kawakami power plant                       repair works for hirose power

that operate by fuel combustion, this system also uses                          and its water supply tunnel                plant and its water supply tunnel

                                                                      500                                          0.80             0.69
waste heat to produce steam, which is then used in facto-                                                                           217
                                                                                                                   186
ries. as a consequence, the system excels in energy efficiency.                 0.81
                                                                                                                                                     0.80
                                                                      400                         0.76                                                154
    in addition, we recently introduced large-scale solar pow-                  146
                                                                                                   97
er systems on the rooftop of our head office building in no-          300
vember 2005 and in the ogaki central plant in march 2008.                                         108
                                                                                                                   119
                                                                                                                                    121                92
                                                                                94
    we are consistently trying to increase our use of natural         200

energy such as hydroelectric power and solar power and                          152
                                                                                                  163              172
                                                                                                                                    146
                                                                                                                                                      171

improve the efficiency of a co-generation system with a high          100

level of environmental performance. as a consequence, pow-
                                                                         0
er we generated in-house supplied nearly 63% of the power                     2008               2009             2010             2011             2012 （fy）
we consumed in fiscal year 2012. we have successfully re-                         trend in electric power use
duced co2 emissions by approx. 102,000 t- co2 (for fiscal                        （ibiden domestic premises）
year 2012) from the quantity emitted to generate purchased
electric power.




    hydroelectric power                  a co-generation system                      solar power generation
    three hydraulic power plants are     co-generation systems operate at            solar cell panels with a total rated gen-
    working in the upstream section of   our plants.                                 erating capacity of 647 kwh have been
    the ibigawa river.                                                               introduced on rooftop of our head office
                                                                                     building and at the ogaki central plant.



＜repair works on hydroelectric facilities＞
we completed more than five years’repair works on our three hydro-
electric power plants in higashi-yokoyama, hirose and kawakami in
2012, which marked the 100th anniversary of our foundation. power
output was improved by approximately 1 0% due to repair works on
the water supply tunnel and the latest update of the generators. we
will continue to take advantage of hydroelectric power as a clean energy.


                                                                                        inside power plant after repair work
＜electric power supply for demanders＞
the hirose hydroelectric power plants have undergone a facility remodeling and satisfy the standard for the
renewable energy buyback program. in march 2013, we also established a facility within the ogaki-kita plant
to connect our power grid to that of electric companies, to supply them with surplus power. beginning in
2013, the electricity has been earmarked specifically for sale to regional electric demanders, which has im-
proved co2 emission factor.




                                                              corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 33

 energy conservation                                                                                direct co2 emissions (scope1)
                                                                                                    indirect co2 emissions（scope2）
                                                                                                    co2 emission unit load rate* plan
we are accelerating the improvement of energy conser-                                               co2 emission unit load rate* performance

vation practices designed to lower the basic unit of                  （kt-co e）               2                （rate）
                                                                       1,000
energy consumption in all divisions within the entire                           100
                                                                                      97
                                                                         900                   94               100
 company, striving to strengthen the company-wide co2                           100                   91    92
                                                                         800          93
reduction activities as well as our product-making system.                                    88            88
                                                                         700                                    80
    each month, we hold “environmental loss prevention                                               83
                                                                                                           623




                                                                            (co2 emissions)
                                                                                              569    576
training camp” where members from all divisions of the                   600




                                                                                                                                               (unit load)
                                                                                                           182  60
company take part in energy conservation activities. the                 500 458      452
                                                                                              231    237
manufacturing division and the related functional divi-                  400
                                                                                215   216                       40
sions meet to hold repeated discussions, create an                       300
activity plan, report on their progress, and disclose rele-              200
                                                                                                           441
                                                                                                                20
                                                                                              338    339
vant cases to share information on improvements. with                    100 243      236
our management’s advice, we follow the pdca cycle to                        0                                   0
                                                                                2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 （fy）
improve energy conservation. the goal of environmental
                                                                      co2 emission and co2 emission unit load rate
loss prevention training camp is to reduce not only
                                                                         (per production volume) [ibiden group]
greenhouse gas emissions but also overall environmental
                                                               *1: the above rate is calculated at the rate of 1 0 0 per-
losses.                                                            cent of the result of fiscal year 2008.
    in fiscal year 2012, we promoted five activities includ-   *2: co2 emissions show figures covering production-re-
                                                                   lated locations in japan and overseas. with regard to
ing the energy-saving design of new plants and new lines.          the co2 emission factor at the time of calculation, we
as in the previous fiscal year, we will continue to pro-           used the factor provided by the “list of calculation
                                                                   methods/emission factors in the calculation, report
mote the energy-saving design of new plants and improve            and publication system” of the ministry of the environ-
energy loss reduction in proportion to the volume of pro-          ment and the ministry of economy, trade and industry
                                                                   in japan as well as by gas distribution companies.
duction.
    in our energy conservation activity, we convert energy consumption to co2 emission and evaluate energy
consumption as well as co2 emission as our result.
    we conducted our activities up until fiscal year 2012 with a target of improving our figures globally by 3%
 per year, using the co2 emission unit load rate in fiscal year 2008 as the benchmark. fiscal year 2012, how-
 ever, saw a rise in total co2 emissions, as the number of production bases increased. the co2 emission unit
load rate is influenced by factors such as an expansion in fixed energy consumption and emission factors in
purchased electricity. this meant that we saw a rise compared to the previous year and our target was not
met. the figure, however, was still a reduction of 8% compared to fiscal year 2008. (please refer to the graph
“co2 emission and co2 emission unit load rate”.)
    from fiscal year 2013 onward, we will seek to improve energy conservation by 2% annually based on the
 co2 emission unit load per production volume for fiscal year 2012 as a medium-term goal.

 we have established energy conservation management standards that are applicable to utility facilities oper-
 ated and managed by ibiden. in energy control based on cost improvement through optimum management,
 the standards aim to“develop a foundation for energy control” and“increase the energy control level”
 through the implementation of actions related to energy usage streamlining. in fiscal year 2012, we aimed at
 building a system to prevent energy conservation efforts from regressing by increasing the rate of conformity
 to energy conservation standards and implementing energy conservation patrol/audits.



 details of energy conservation improvements in fiscal 2012
                 three-pillar initiatives                                                         details
 1. targeted development/energy-saving design         energy-saving design of new lines at three overseas plants
 2.	horizontal deployment of energy conservation development of items for company-wide horizontal deployment and items
     improvements                                 unique to each plant, theme improvement of energy conservation assessment
                                                      creation of energy maintenance management standards, review/adjust-
 3. maintenance management
                                                      ment of the standards
 co2 reduction through energy conservation activities 22,400t-co2*

 * the above is an estimated amount obtained by converting the contents of improvement activities to co2 reductions.


                                                                     corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 34

 resource circulation
resource circulating activities
ibiden believes that it is an important responsibility of                            amount of solid waste
businesses to make effective use of the world’s scarce re-                           solid waste unit load rate* plan
                                                                                     solid waste unit load rate* performance
sources and to take part in a global effort to conserve re-               （t）                                                （rate）
sources. we promote the so-called 3r activity, which                 50,000
                                                                                100      100
consists of initiatives to reduce, reuse and recycle the                                           98          97       96   100
resources we consume. in doing so, we aim to improve                             100      99
                                                                     40,000                                    93       94
the resources efficiency. since 2004, ibiden has been main-                                        92




                                                                              (amount of solid waste)
                                                                                                                             80
taining a zero-emission* status in terms of solid waste.
     the ibiden group sets an index to control solid waste           30,000




                                                                                                                                                        (unit load)
                                                                                                                             60
per production volume and has been taking action to im-
plement such control. we conducted our activities up un-             20,000
                                                                                                                             40
til fiscal year 2012 with a target of improving our numbers
by 1% per year using the basic unit of the production vol-
                                                                     10,000                                                  20
ume in fiscal year 2008 as the benchmark. the material




                                                                                                                                               40,800
                                                                                                                                      40,400
                                                                                                        28,900



                                                                                                                    30,500



                                                                                                                             37,200
use efficiency continued to improve throughout fiscal year
2012. furthermore, although the volume of waste per pro-                   0
                                                                                2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 （fy）
                                                                                                                             0
duction volume increased compared to the previous year,
                                                                amount of solid waste and solid waste unit load rate
we saw a drop of 6% compared to fiscal year 2008 and
                                                                                      [ibiden group]
met the planned target. (please refer to the graph
                                                             *the above rate is calculated at the rate of 100 percent of
“amount of solid waste and solid waste unit load rate”.)
                                                               the result of fiscal year 2008
     beginning in the second half of fiscal year 2 0 1 2, we
improved the sortability of packaging materials and reviewed our subcontractors. as a result, we were able to
turn 20t per month of what would have been waste into valuable resources. this activity will continue. as a
medium-term target beyond fiscal year 2013, we will aim to reduce the waste unit load rate per production
volume by 2% per year compared to fiscal year 2012.

*ibiden defines zero emission as a state in which no solid waste emitted from the production process is dumped in landfills.


effective utilization and reduction of water resources (water conservation efforts)
                                                                                                                 water withdrawal
a large amount of water resources is used in the manu-                                water withdrawal unit load rate* plan
                                                                                      water withdrawal unit load rate* performance
facturing process of electronic products, particularly for
                                                                     （1000m³）                                                  （rate）
cleansing. ogaki city in gifu prefecture, where our do-              20,000
mestic production bases are concentrated, is rich in un-                        100
                                                                                          97
                                                                                                   94                           100
derground water thanks to the ibigawa river system.                              100                          91
                                                                                                                         88
however, water shortages are a serious problem in the                15,000               91
                                                                                                   74                    74     80
world today. based on the principle of so-called 3r activi-
                                                                              (water withdrawal)




                                                                                                              69
ty—initiatives to reduce, reuse, and recycle resources—
                                                                                                                                                        (unit load)




                                                                                                                                60
the group carries out business activities by integrating             10,000
environmental technologies into manufacturing technolo-
gies, which has reduced the amount of industrial water                                                                          40

use. to ensure the optimum control of wastewater and                   5,000
effluent and the facilitation of 3r activity for water re-                                                                      20
                                                                                                                                               12,800
                                                                                                        11,800



                                                                                                                    11,500



                                                                                                                             12,300



                                                                                                                                      12,300




sources, since fiscal year 2008 all concerned divisions
have been meeting every month for a full day of discus-                    0                                                    0
                                                                                2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 （fy）
sion to confirm and report on the progress.
                                                               water withdrawal and water withdrawal unit load rate
    the ibiden group sets a benchmark for managing the
                                                                                        [ibiden group]
water withdrawal per production volume. up until fiscal
year 2012, we implemented activities with a target of im-    *the  above  rate   is calculated    at the rate of 100 percent of
                                                               the result of fiscal year 2008
proving our figures by 3% per year using the basic unit of
the production volume in fiscal year 2008 as the benchmark. in fiscal year 2012, we increased the use of re-
cycled water (over 95%) within the industrial park at the beijing plant, where the use of water resources was
limited. the water withdrawal per production volume for fiscal year 2012 achieved a 26% decrease compared
to fiscal year 2008. we will continue our commitment to reducing the water withdrawal unit load rate at all
plants by means of water conservation and recycling activities.
    (please refer to the graph entitled “water withdrawal and water withdrawal unit load rate.”) as a medi-
um-term target beyond fiscal year 2013, we will aim to reduce the water withdrawal unit load rate per pro-
duction volume by 2% compared to fiscal year 2012.

                                                                        corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 35

  appropriate chemical control
responding to the regulations regarding chemical substances in products and manufacturing processes
ibiden uses various chemical substances in the plating process. since chemical substances may cause pollu-
tion and human health hazards, we practice rigorous control to prevent chemicals from causing harm. we are
reducing the use of or even eliminating certain chemicals. we operate the chemical control committee as an
internal organization, establishing a system to swiftly identify and respond to community demands related to
chemical substances as shown in the reach system in europe. we have also operated the systems for chemi-
cal control at overseas manufacturing bases.

approach to the supply chain
cooperation throughout the entire supply chain is essential to address environ-
mental issues including chemical control as well as to push forward with csr.
we issue green procurement guidelines to our major suppliers in an effort to
check the status of our business partners’measures for environmental manage-
ment and chemical control and conduct surveys on the status of chemical sub-
stances that may cause a significant environmental burden. in fiscal year 2012,
we updated the green procurement guidelines to check the status of controlled
chemical substance content.
   our chemical substance content information is managed by it systems that
enable us to promptly respond to inquiries from our clients. having selected
priority suppliers, we conduct on-site audits systematically.
                                                                                                                                       ibiden group green
                                                                                                                                     procurement guidelines
released and transferred amounts of prtr*-listed chemical substances
with respect to domestic laws, to respond to the prtr law and the law concerning the examination and
regulation of manufacture, etc. of chemical substances, we are enhancing in-house chemical control systems
to build a management structure that prevents any omissions and errors.
* prtr：pollutant release and transfer register



●released and transferred amounts of prtr-listed chemical substances in fy 2012
 ■ 16 chemical substances subject to mandatory reporting to gifu and aichi prefecture
 ■ specified class i designated chemical substance: 2     ■ class i designated chemical substance: 14
 ■ total amounts released or transferred: approx. 409 t/ year
                                                                                    amount discharged
                                                                                                                                 amount transferred          total
                                                                    (to air, public waterway, soil, or in-house landfill)
                                                                                                                                                            amount
  id                                                                          discharged discharged            buried in                   transffered    discharged
                     regulated substance                           discharged  to public  to soil on          landfill off-    transferred   off-side
  no.                                                                                                                                                         and
                                                                      to air  waterway or   facility          site facility   to sewerage as waste        transferred
                                                                    (kg/year)    river     grounds              grounds         (kg/year)    material      (kg/year)
                                                                               (kg/year)  (kg/year)            (kg/year)                    (kg/year)
  20                    2-aminoethanol                                 2,144               0              0              0           124     209,942        212,210
  59                    ethylenediamine                                   0.4              0              0              0             0              0          0.4
  76                     ε-caprolactam                                      0              0              0              0             0           61             61
 237                      hydrargentum                                      0              0              0              0             0        2,633         2,633
 272    copper salts (water-soluble, except complex salts)                  0           208               0              0            81      53,635         53,925
 304                            lead                                        0              0              0              0             0              0            0
 308                           nickel                                       0              0              0              0             0              0            0
 309                  nickel compounds                                      0              0              0              0             0        8,237         8,237
 349                           phenol                                      26              0              0              0             0              0           26
 368                    tert-butylphenol                                    0              0              0              0             0           20             20
 395    potassium persulfate water-soluble salt                             0              0              0              0             0      27,912         27,912
 405              boron and its compounds                                   0              0              0              0             0        3,269         3,269
 408    2-(2-[4-(1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutyl)phenoxy]ethoxy)ethanol            0              0              0              0             0              0            0
 410         poly (oxyethylene) nonylphenyl ether                           0              0              0              0             0        1,334         1,334
 411                     formaldehyde                                  1,651               0              0              0             0      83,644         85,295
 412          manganese and its compounds                                   0              0              0              0             0      14,005         14,005

【surveyed】ibiden and ibiden group companies covered by ibiden’s environmental-management system
【survey period】april 2012 through march 2013

                                                                                                corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 36

 understanding the influence on biodiversity
initiated from the power of water, the group’  s business activities are blessed with the benefit of biodiversity
such as maintaining a stable water supply. and our activities also have some impact in the area of biodiversi-
ty. just as we need to cope with the issues of global warming due to climate change, biodiversity conserva-
tion is one of the most important tasks to tackle.
    aiming to contribute to constant social advancement, in line with the values stressing“harmony with na-
ture,”ibiden will act responsibly as a global enterprise by working together with society.


activities to create a society in harmony with nature for biodiversity protection and sustainable resource use
focusing on the upstream areas along the ibigawa river, which are the roots of the ibiden group, we will
contribute to protecting biodiversity and sustainable use of resources in the local community. we will achieve
this by carrying out forest preservation activities to support the water sources and promoting social contribu-
tion activities in collaboration with the local community.


forest preservation activity areas
in august 2008, ibiden signed an agreement on lively forest creation with the gifu prefectural government,
the ibigawa town government and the ibi shizen kankyo rangers (a nonprofit organization). according to this
agreement, we will plant trees, thin the forests and conduct improvement cutting in ibiden’         s forest higashi
yokoyama forest in the higashi yokoyama district and ibiden’     s forest fujihashi forest in the tsurumi district
over the next 10 years, in an effort to support sustainable reforestation activities in the future.
→ for details on forest preservation activities, please refer to“social contribution”on page 46.

＜target areas of forest preservation activities＞



                                         ▶   toyama


                     ▶   ishikawa


           ▶   fukui
                                                     ▶   nagano
                                                                                                 tokuyama
                                                                       ibi prefectural             dam                site preparation for
                              ▶   gifu
                                                                        natural park                                  silvicultural project
                                                                                                                      ibiden’  s forest fuji-
                                                                                                                      hashi
                                                                                                                      land area：37ha
      ▶   shiga
                                                                                                          417
                                         ▶   aichi

               mie                                                                                              ibigawa river
                                                                                     hirose
           ▶

                                                                  kawakami
                                                                  power plant      power plant


                                                                                           303

                                                                                  higashi yokoyama
                                                                                        power plant


                                                                  the hydroelectric power is supplied                303

                                                                  to each of ibiden’s plants
                                                                                                                    site preparation for
                                                                                                                    planting project
                                                                                                                    ibiden’ s forest hi-
                                                                                                                    gashi-yokoyama
   in collaboration with the local community,
                                                                                                                    land area：4.31ha
   we held the nature study class in autumn
                                                                                corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 37

 environmental contribution through products
product life cycle assessment
ibiden is promoting a design that takes into consideration safety/environmental rules and regulations, energy
conservation and resource conservation from the initial stage of product development. in design reviews to
examine product development/design, we have added product and process safety, environmental regula-
tions/safety of materials used and energy conservation consciousness reflected in the production process as
examination items. currently we are building a system to confirm whether products developed and produced
by ibiden are environmentally friendly. we plan to issue guidelines for environment-conscious designing and
start using them from fiscal year 2013.


diesel particulate filter (dpf)
as environmental regulations are tightened, the market for automotive exhaust system components is likely to
expand in the future. ibiden is working to reduce the environmental burden by launching next-generation,
high-performance products such as diesel particulate filters (dpfs), installed into fuel-efficient, clean diesel ve-
hicles.




                                               sic-dpf（diesel particulate filter)



in 2000, ibiden succeeded in achieving the practical application of dpfs made of silicon carbide (sic), which
boasts high thermal conductivity, high heat resistance, thermal shock resistance, and high mechanical strength
as its baseline performance. following that, with a view to further reducing the environmental burden, we de-
veloped new technology such as the oct-square, which helped achieve long life and the downsizing of the filters.




                 conventional cell structure                                        oct-square (os) cell structure


            the inlet cell of the dpf is expanded in an octagonal form to increase the ash reten-
            tion capacity. this technology downsizes           the dpf volume to reduce material and en-
            ergy consumption.




                                                                     corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 38

environmental performance data




 environmental accounting

1．environmental accounting in support of environmental management
in promoting environmental management, ibiden performs calculations and analyses to develop a quanti-
tative understanding of investment and costs, seeking to understand the management resources spent on
reducing the environmental burden and the results. we use environmental accounting to reflect the effects of
investment and cost in the decision-making process at the management level.


2．basis for calculation
accounting period        fiscal year 2012 (april 1, 2012 to march 31, 2013)

                         ibiden co., ltd. and major domestic manufacturing group companies
accounting scope
                         (ibiden engineering co., ltd., ibiden graphite co., ltd., ibiden kenso co., ltd., ibiden
(note 1)
                         jushi co., ltd., ibiden electronics industries co., ltd., ibiden bussan co., ltd.)

                         calculations conform to the environmental accounting guidelines (2005 edition) pub-
calculation method
                         lished by the ministry of the environment.

note 1:	calculations have been based on the consolidated financial results of major domestic manufacturing group companies
         since fiscal year 2009.


3．main environmental protection costs
in fiscal year 2012, investment increased ¥2.6 billion, up 168%, compared to fiscal year 2011. this was pri-
marily because “(2) global environmental protection costs” increased due to maintenance work on water sup-
ply tunnel associated with repair work for the hirose power plant facilities (electricity supply for which began
in 1925) to improve performance and repair deterioration.
    in fiscal year 2012, costs decreased ¥1.5 billion, a decline of 15%, compared to fiscal year 2011. this was
mainly because “(1) pollution prevention costs” and “(3) resource circulation costs” declined due to a de-
crease in production volume and improvement activities including efficient operation of the liquid waste treat-
ment facility.

                                                                                                         (unit: million yen/year)

                                                                 investments (note 2)                     costs (note 2)
                      category
                                                             fy 2011 fy 2012 year to year fy 2011 fy 2012 year to year

               (1) pollution prevention costs                    388        268       －31%          3,055        2,362       －23%
 business
               (2) global environmental conservation costs       322      3,628 +1026%              2,224        1,980       －11%
 area cost
               (3) resources circulation costs                    16           1      －97%            953          851       －11%

 (4) upstream and downstream costs                                 0           0       ―               15           16         +5%

 (5) administration costs                                          5          26     +414%            245          217       －11%

 (6) research & development costs                                830        253       －69%          3,372        2,898       －14%

 (7) social activity costs                                         0           0       ―               32           42       +31%

 (8) environmental remediation costs                               0           0       ―                 0            0       ―

                         total                                 1,560      4,176      +168%          9,896        8,365       －15%

note 2:	in cases when the total amount of investments and costs cannot be deemed to constitute environmental protection costs,
         we have calculated the difference or the proportional share.




                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 39

4．distribution ratio of total cost of environmental protection
                              other                                     ・research and development costs include the cost of re-
            resource           3%                                         searching and developing next-generation dpfs and other
            recycling
                                                                          environmentally responsible products, aimed at con-
              10%
                                                       research and
                                                                          trolling the environmental burden.
                                                       development      ・global environmental protection costs include mainte-
    global                                                 35%            nance and administration costs of hydroelectric power
environmental
  protection                   fy 2012                                    generation and cogeneration facilities.
     24%                     total 8,365                                ・the environment is the main objective of costs associated
                              million yen                                 with hydroelectric power generation and research and de-
                                                                          velopment of environmentally responsible products. the
                                                                          total cost is aggregated, as there is no appropriate pro
                                                                          rata basis.
                 pollution
                prevention
                   28%

5．economic results and real effects of environmental protection measures (note 3)
the economic effects of energy conservation for fiscal year 2012 increased ¥1.1 billion, a rise of 140%, com-
pared to fiscal year 2011. the main causes were higher power generation due to the completion of the hirose
power plant construction update and improvement of energy loss reduction, including productivity increases
and complete maintenance management.
   the economic effects of resource recycling for fiscal year 2012 rose ¥0.2 billion, an increase of 11%, com-
pared to fiscal year 2011. the main causes were reduced waste treatment costs achieved by reducing losses
at the water treatment plant specializing in liquid waste and drainage treatments, in addition to economic re-
sults reflecting effective use of resources through the material loss improvement per unit.
                                                                                                                               (unit: million yen/year)

                                                                                                                   amount
                                         description of effects                                                                        year to year
                                                                                                            fy 2011       fy 2012
                  1.	energy conservation effect and electric power marginal profit effect
                  results of effective hydroelectric power generation, improved power
                  generation efficiency, reduced idle operation loss, improved productiv-                        777        1,866        ＋140%
                  ity, improved air conditioning, improved steam energy, and thorough
                  maintenance and control
                  2. economic effects of resource recycling
 real effects     (1) reduced waste
                  ・effects of reduced liquid waste treatment costs, improved yield rates,
                    and reduced waste as a result of loss improvement
                  (2) recycling of waste                                                                      2,011         2,239          ＋11%
                  ・effects of effective use of waste
                  ・effects of disposal by sale of substrates containing precious metals,
                    liquid waste containing precious metals, sludge containing copper
                    and waste plastics
                                                  total                                                       2,788         4,105          ＋47%

note 3: these figures are not including estimated measure (assumed effect).

6．fluctuations in environmental protection costs and economic results (note 4)
                                      (million yen)
                                                      ■environmental protection cost
                                      12,000
                                                      ■economic result of environmental protection measures
                                                                                           9,896
                                      10,000                    9,363         9,555
                                                8,676                                                    8,365
                                       8,000


                                       6,000
                                                                                                             4,105
                                       4,000                                      3,624
                                                        2,824         3,115
                                                                                                 2,788

                                       2,000


                                            0
                                                      2008        2009          2010          2011         2012 （fy）
note 4:	the figures are presented on a non-consolidated basis in fiscal year 2008 (on consolidated basis of ibiden co,. ltd. from
         fiscal year 2009)
                                                                                      corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 40

                 s material balance (input and output)
 the ibiden group’
the ibiden group procures a variety of raw materials and is engaged in manufacturing activities by utilizing a
considerable amount of natural resources on the earth such as water and energy. to provide earth-friendly
products to our customers, we seek to grasp the environmental burden caused by our business activities on a
global basis. we will continue to provide high-value-added products while setting medium- and long-term tar-
gets and reducing our environmental burden.

                                  energy use                                                                                  raw materials
                category                        ibiden    *1   group    *2                            category                                      ibiden   group

          electricity purcahsed electricity     154,295        745,678                                                     metals（t）                1,704     7,090
         （mwh）
             *3       renewable energy          172,043        172,043                             plastics and resins（t）                           5,620    11,580

             natural gas（1000m ）                 41,081         61,274                                                       glass（t）                 4       225
                                         3




                               lpg（ｔ）             1,271         1,535                            ceramic material,etc.（t）                           11,483   29,058

                 kerosene（1000ℓ）                  414            414                                                        wood（t）                  663      756

                diesel oil（1000ℓ）                  40           11,558                                                       paper（t）               3,487     3,956

                 heavy oil（1000ℓ）                  0            2,534                            agricultural product（t）                              0       3,532

                                                                                                                   chemicals（t）                     64,237   140,846
                             water resources                                   *1 ibiden: ibiden domestic 7 premises
                                                                               *2	group: ibiden domestic premises and, five japanese group
                category                         ibiden        group    *4         companies (jushi, bussan and iec (h.o.), sangyo and igt) and
                                                                                   nine overseas group companies (ipi, ieb, ihu, idfs, ipf, iem, iml,
                                                                                   mmi and ish )
           groundwater（1000m ）                    5,873         7,508
                                         3
                                                                               *3	electric power: privately generated electricity by the group's
                                                                                   thermal power other than above (139,936 mwh)
           water works（1000m ）                     21           5,261
                                         3
                                                                               *4	groundwater of the group includes river water of 36,000 m .
                                                                                                                                               3


                                                                                   water works include 947,000 m of recycled water at industrial
                                                                                                                   3


                                                                                   parks.




                                                                             input


                                                               ibiden group

                                                                         output


                                atmosphere                                                                                             waste
                category                        ibiden    *1   group    *2                            category                                      ibiden   group

                             scope 1 *3            97            182                                material recycling（t）                           11,201   29,766
           co2
                             scope 2 *4            72            441                                thermal recycling（t）                            1,103     2,367
          （1000ｔ）
                           logistics     *5        1.4           1.4                                                        reuse（t）                 560      2,778

          sox emissions（1000ｔ）                     0             0.02                  amount of landfill waste after intermediate treatment（t）*6   1,217     4,717

          nox emissions（1000ｔ）                     0.1           0.2                   landfilled industrial waste（t）                                 0       1,211

                                                                                          total generated waste（t）                                  14,082   40,838
                               water system
                     category                    ibiden         group

            discharge to public sewer（1000m ）     500           3,613
                                         3


                                                                               *1   ibiden: ibiden domestic 7 premises
    water discharge to river（1000m ）              3,218         5,583
                                         3
                                                                               *2   group: ibiden domestic premises and, five japanese group compa-
                                                                                    nies (jushi, bussan and iec (h.o.), sangyo and igt) and nine over-
    system                                                                          seas group companies (ipi, ieb, ihu, idfs, ipf, iem, iml, mmi and
               cod contamination（t）                11            82                 ish )
                                                                               *3   scope 1: direct co2 emissions (emissions from fuel used in business
                 nitrogen contamination（t）         7              8                 establishments), include greenhouse gas other than co2
                                                                               *4   scope 2: indirect co2 emissions (emissions from purchased electrici-
                                                                                    ty generation)
                 phosphorous contamination（t）      0.2           0.2           *5   logistics: transport by the ibiden group companies in japan
                                                                               *6   this does not mean amount of final landfill disposal. amount of
            industrial wastewater（1000ｔ）           19            36                 waste which is finally disposed in a landfill (amount before volume
                                                                                    reduction treatment by incineration and such.)




                                                                                      corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 41

 environmental data for individual plants and group companies – compliance management
the ibiden group sets its own standards above and beyond what is required by law for activities and opera-
tions that may have a significant environmental impact, and regularly measures and monitors compliance. in
fiscal year 2012, no serious infraction or fine was found that would have had a significant environmental im-
pact. the results of compliance monitoring at workplaces were as follows.

ogaki plant
＜ no.1 wastewater measurement ＞                                                                                   ＜ noise measurement ＞
            item                   unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum            place                    unit     national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
ph                                           5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                        7.4     7.9     north (morning･evening)           db             65               65             65             53      57
bod                               mg/l           160                15              5             0.6     2.7     east (morning･evening)            db             65               65             65             46      50
ss                                mg/l           200               200           200              <1       1      south (morning･evening)           db             65               65             65             48      56
n-h mineral oils                  mg/l              5                5              5             <1      <1      west (morning･evening)            db             65               65             65             57      62
cyanide                           mg/l              1              0.1           0.03            <0.01 <0.01           north (night)                db             60               60             60             53      55
＜ no.2 wastewater measurement ＞                                                                                         east (night)                db             60               60             60             45      49
                                                                                                                       south (night)                db            60                60             60             46      51
         item                      unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                                                                                                       west (night)                 db            60                60             60             57      60
ph                                           5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                         7.3    8.0
bod                               mg/l           160                 15              5             6.0   12.0
cod                               mg/l           160             regulation of
                                                                total emission
                                                                                regulation of
                                                                               total emission      5.2   19.0
ss                                mg/l           200                 30             30             5.0    13
copper                            mg/l              3                 2              1             0.3    1.1
lead
total chromium
                                  mg/l
                                  mg/l
                                                  0.1
                                                    2
                                                                    0.1
                                                                      1
                                                                                  0.03
                                                                                     1
                                                                                                 <0.01 <0.01
                                                                                                 <0.02 <0.02
                                                                                                                  aoyanagi plant
hexavalent chromium               mg/l            0.5              0.25           0.25           <0.02 <0.02      ＜ no.5 wastewater measurement ＞
fluorine                          mg/l              8                 8              5            0.10   0.16              item                     unit     national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
cyanide                           mg/l              1               0.1            0.1           <0.01 <0.01      ph                                         5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                        7.1     7.5
n-h mineral oils                  mg/l              5                 5              5            1.0      3      bod                               mg/l         160                 15              5            4.4     10
nitrogen                          mg/l           120                60             60             1.9     4.5     cod                               mg/l         160             regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                total emission
                                                                                                                                                                                                regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                               total emission     1.8     5.7
phosphorus                        mg/l            16                  8              8            0.1     0.2     ss                                mg/l         200                 30             30            8.9     16
boron and boron com-                                                                                              copper                            mg/l            3                 2              1           0.48     1.8
                                  mg/l           10           10            10           0.1          0.3
pounds                                                                                                            lead                              mg/l          0.1               0.1           0.03           <0.01   <0.01
ammonia and ammonium compounds,                                                                                   total chromium                    mg/l            2                 1              1           <0.02 <0.02
                                  mg/l          100          100           100           1.4          4.0
nitrite and nitrate compounds                                                                                     hexavalent chromium               mg/l          0.5              0.25           0.25           <0.02 <0.02
＜ air measurement ＞                                                                                               fluorine                          mg/l            8                 8              5           <0.1    <0.1
                                                                                                                  cyanide                           mg/l            1               0.1            0.1           0.01    0.01
    item       equipment           unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                                                                                                  1･1･1 trichloroethane             mg/l            3                 3              3          <0.0005 <0.0005
               boiler no.7        g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.004   0.006
                                     3

                                                                                                                  ni                                mg/l           －                  －              －           <0.01 <0.01
               boiler no.8        g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.002   0.002
                                     3

                                                                                                                  phenol                            mg/l            5               0.4            0.4           <0.1    <0.1
               boiler no.9        g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.004   0.004
                                     3

                                                                                                                  n-h mineral oils                  mg/l            5                 5              5            <1      <1
               boiler no.10       g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.003   0.003
                                     3

                                                                                                                  dichloromethane                   mg/l          0.2               0.2            0.2          <0.002 <0.002
               boiler no.11       g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.004   0.004
                                     3

                                                                                                                  nitrogen                          mg/l         120                60             60             2.0     2.5
               boiler no.12       g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.003   0.004
                                     3

                                                                                                                  phosphorus                        mg/l          16                  8              8            0.1     0.3
               boiler no.13       g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.004   0.005
                                     3

                                                                                                                  boron and boron com-
               boiler no.14       g/m n
                                     3
                                             0.3             0.27           0.27            0.004   0.004                                           mg/l         10           10            10           0.3          0.6
                                                                                                                  pounds
               boiler no.15       g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.004   0.004
                                     3

                                                                                                                  ammonia and ammonium compounds,
               boiler no.16       g/m n
                                     3
                                             0.3             0.27           0.27            0.002   0.002                                           mg/l        100          100           100           1.7          2.1
                                                                                                                  nitrite and nitrate compounds
               boiler no.17       g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.002   0.002
                                     3

    soot                                                                                                          ＜ no.6 wastewater measurement ＞
               boiler no.18       g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.002   0.002
                                     3


               boiler no.19       g/m n
                                     3
                                             0.3             0.27           0.27            0.002   0.002                  item                     unit     national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
               boiler no.20       g/m n
                                     3
                                             0.3             0.27           0.27            0.002   0.002         ph                                         5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                        7.9     8.5
               boiler no.21       g/m n
                                     3
                                             0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                    bod                               mg/l         160                 15             10            0.6     2.0
               boiler no.22       g/m n
                                     3
                                             0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                    cod                               mg/l         160             regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                total emission
                                                                                                                                                                                                regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                               total emission     0.5     1.5
               boiler no.23       g/m n
                                     3
                                             0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                    ss                                mg/l         200                 30             30            <1      <1
               boiler no.24       g/m n
                                     3
                                             0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                    cyanide                           mg/l            1               0.1            0.1           <0.01 <0.01
               boiler no.25       g/m n
                                     3
                                             0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                    phenol                            mg/l            5               0.4            0.4           <0.1    <0.1
               boiler no.26       g/m n
                                     3
                                             0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                    n-h mineral oils                  mg/l            5                 5              5            <1      <1
               gas turbine no.1   g/m n
                                     3
                                            0.05             0.05           0.05 <0.001 <0.001                    nitrogen                          mg/l         120                60             60             1.0     1.5
               gas turbine no.2   g/m n
                                     3
                                            0.05             0.05           0.05 <0.001 <0.001                    phosphorus                        mg/l          16                  8              8            0.05   0.06
               boiler no.7         ppm      260               260           260              85      96           ＜ air measurement ＞
               boiler no.8         ppm      260               260           260              82      95
                                                                                                                      item       equipment         unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
               boiler no.9         ppm      260               260           260              84      84
                                                                                                                                 boiler no.2 g/m n           0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                     3

               boiler no.10        ppm      260               260           260               84      84
                                                                                                                      soot       gas turbine no.1 g/m n     0.05             0.05           0.05 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                     3

               boiler no.11        ppm      260               260           260               82      82
                                                                                                                                 gas turbine no.2 g/m n     0.05             0.05           0.05 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                     3

               boiler no.12        ppm      260               260           260               71      75
                                                                                                                                 boiler no.2 ppm            150               150           150              93      93
               boiler no.13        ppm      260               260           260               73      81
                                                                                                                      nox        gas turbine no.1 ppm         70               70             70             19      21
               boiler no.14        ppm      260               260           260               80      80
                                                                                                                                 gas turbine no.2 ppm         70               70             70             16      19
               boiler no.15        ppm      260               260           260              100     100
               boiler no.16        ppm      260               260           260               88      91          ＜ noise measurement ＞
    nox
               boiler no.17        ppm      260               260           260              100     100                   place                    unit     national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
               boiler no.18        ppm      260               260           260               77      82          east (morning･evening)            db             65               65             65             51      54
               boiler no.19        ppm      260               260           260               83      96          west (morning･evening)            db             65               65             65             47      51
               boiler no.20        ppm      260               260           260               82      94          south (morning･evening)           db             65               65             65             52      55
               boiler no.21        ppm      150               150           150               37      37          north (morning･evening)           db             65               65             65             52      54
               boiler no.22        ppm      150               150           150               39      39                east (night)                db             60               60             60             51      53
               boiler no.23        ppm      150               150           150               41      44                west (night)                db             60               60             60             47      50
               boiler no.24        ppm      150               150           150               38      38               south (night)                db            60                60             60             51      54
               boiler no.25        ppm      150               150           150               42      44               north (night)                db            60                60             60             51      53
               boiler no.26        ppm      150               150           150               39      40


                                                                                                                      corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 42

gama plant                                                                                                        ogaki central plant
＜ no.1 wastewater measurement ＞                                                                                   ＜ wastewater measurement ＞
          item                     unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum               item                   unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
ph                                           5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                         7.1    7.8     ph                                           5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                         6.9    7.7
bod                               mg/l           160                 15             5              3.5    6.4     bod                               mg/l           160                 15              5             2.6    8.1
cod                               mg/l           160             regulation of
                                                                total emission     10              1.3    3.9     cod                               mg/l           160             regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                  total emission
                                                                                                                                                                                                  regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                                 total emission      2.2    5.3
ss                                mg/l           200                 30            10              1.7     4      ss                                mg/l           200                 30             30             2.9     9
copper                            mg/l              3                 2             1             0.14   0.40     copper                            mg/l              3                 2              1            0.24   0.48
lead                              mg/l            0.1               0.1          0.03            <0.01 <0.01      lead                              mg/l            0.1               0.1           0.03           <0.01 <0.01
fluorine                          mg/l              8                 8             5            0.10    0.11     total chromium                    mg/l              2                 1              1           <0.02 <0.02
cyanide                           mg/l              1               0.1          0.03            0.01    0.01     hexavalent chromium               mg/l            0.5              0.25           0.25           <0.02 <0.02
1･1･1 trichloroethane             mg/l              3                 3             1           <0.0005 <0.0005   fluorine                          mg/l              8                 8              5           <0.1    <0.1
n-h mineral oils                  mg/l              5                 5           1.7              <1     <1      cyanide                           mg/l              1               0.1            0.1           0.01    0.02
dichloromethane                   mg/l            0.2               0.2          0.06 <0.002 <0.002               n-h mineral oils                  mg/l              5                 5              5              1      1
nitrogen                          mg/l           120                 60            20             3.0     3.9     nitrogen                          mg/l           120                 60             60             2.1    4.6
phosphorus                        mg/l            16                  8           2.7            0.05    0.05     phosphorus                        mg/l             16                 8              8            0.07   0.41
boron and boron com-                                                                                              boron and boron com-
                                  mg/l           10           10            10         <0.1          <0.1                                           mg/l           10           10            10          0.12         0.25
pounds                                                                                                            pounds
ammonia and ammonium compounds,                                                                                   ammonia and ammonium compounds,
                                  mg/l          100          100           100           2.7          3.8                                           mg/l          100          100           100           1.6          3.5
nitrite and nitrate compounds                                                                                     nitrite and nitrate compounds


＜ no.2 wastewater measurement ＞                                                                                   ＜ air measurement ＞
            item                   unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum       item       equipment           unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
ph                                           5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                         7.9    8.2                    b-1-1 boiler       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                       3


bod                               mg/l           160                 15            10              0.4    0.9                    b-1-2 boiler       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                       3


cod                               mg/l           160                               10              0.6    2.1                    b-1-3 boiler       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                 regulation of                                                                         3
                                                                total emission

ss                                mg/l           200                 30            10               1      1                     b-1-4 boiler       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                       3


n-h mineral oils                  mg/l              5                 5           1.7              <1     <1                     b-1-5 boiler       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                       3

                                                                                                                      soot
nitrogen                          mg/l           120                 60            20              1.0    1.2                    b-1-6 boiler       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                       3


phosphorus                        mg/l            16                  8           2.7            <0.05 <0.05                     b-1-7 boiler       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                       3


copper                            mg/l              3                 2             1             0.01   0.02                    b-1-8 boiler       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                       3


cyanide                           mg/l              1               0.1          0.03            <0.01 <0.01                     b-1-9 boiler       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                       3


lead                              mg/l            0.1               0.1          0.03            <0.01 <0.01                     b-1-10 boiler      g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                       3


dichloromethane                   mg/l            0.2               0.2          0.06 <0.002 <0.002                              b-1-1 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              29      33
1･1･1 trichloroethane             mg/l              3                 3             1           <0.0005 <0.0005                  b-1-2 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              29      30
fluorine                          mg/l              8                 8             5            <0.1    <0.1                    b-1-3 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              32      34
boron and boron com-                                                                                                             b-1-4 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              35      38
                                  mg/l           10           10            10         <0.1          <0.1
pounds                                                                                                                           b-1-5 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              38      38
                                                                                                                      nox
ammonia and ammonium compounds,                                                                                                  b-1-6 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              33      34
                                  mg/l          100          100           100           <1           <1
nitrite and nitrate compounds                                                                                                    b-1-7 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              36      36
                                                                                                                                 b-1-8 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              33      34
＜ air measurement ＞                                                                                                              b-1-9 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              32      35
                                                                                                                                 b-1-10 boiler       ppm      150               150           150              34      37
    item    equipment              unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
            boiler no.9 gas       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                     3


            boiler no.10 gas      g/m n
                                     3
                                             0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                    ＜ noise measurement ＞
            boiler no.11 gas      g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                              place                    unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                     3


   soot     boiler no.12 gas      g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                    west (morning･evening)             db              50               50             50             39      44
                                     3


（oxygen boiler no.13 gas          g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                    north (morning･evening)            db              50               50             50             43      48
                                     3


equivalent） boiler no.14 gas      g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                    eastno.1 (morning･evening)         db              50               50             50             45      48
                                     3


            boiler no.15 gas      g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                    eastno.2 (morning･evening)         db              60               60             60             45      48
                                     3


            boiler no.16 gas      g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                    south (morning･evening)            db              60               60             60             39      44
                                     3


            gas turbine           g/m n     0.05             0.05           0.05            0.003   0.006              west (night)                  db              45               45             45             37      38
                                     3


            boiler no.9 gas        ppm      150               150           150               40      42               north (night)                 db              45               45             45             42      44
            boiler no.10 gas       ppm      150               150           150               38      41             east no.1 (night)               db             45                45             45             43      45
            boiler no.11 gas       ppm      150               150           150               42      45             east no.2 (night)               db             50                50             50             43      46
   nox      boiler no.12 gas       ppm      150               150           150               38      43               south (night)                 db             50                50             50             36      38
（oxygen boiler no.13 gas           ppm      150               150           150               28      30
equivalent） boiler no.14 gas       ppm      150               150           150               28      29
            boiler no.15 gas       ppm      150               150           150               27      27
            boiler no.16 gas       ppm      150               150           150               31      36
            gas turbine            ppm        70               70             70              38      43


＜ noise measurement ＞
         place                     unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
east (morning･evening)             db              65               65             65             47      51
south (morning･evening)            db              65               65             65             50      53
west (morning･evening)             db              65               65             65             57      60
      east (night)                 db              60               60             60             45      47
     south (night)                 db              60               60             60             49      52
      west (night)                 db             60                60             60             56      59




                                                                                                                      corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 43

ogaki-kita plant                                                                                                                kinuura plant
＜ total wastewater measurement ＞                                                                                                ＜ wastewater measurement ＞
                  item                           unit      national standard town standard voluntary standard average maximum             item         unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
ph                                                         5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                         7.6    7.9     ph                             5.8 ～ 8.6                    6.0 ～ 8.4            6.4     7.1
bod                                             mg/l           160                 30             20             1.9    13      bod                    mg/l      160                              20             5.6     11
cod                                             mg/l           160             regulation of
                                                                              total emission
                                                                                              regulation of
                                                                                             total emission      5.6    26      cod                    mg/l      160                              30             10      15
ss                                              mg/l           200                 30             25             2.2    14      ss                     mg/l      200                              50             10      20
copper                                          mg/l              3                 2              1            0.01   0.03     copper                 mg/l        3                             0.2            0.01    0.01
total chromium                                  mg/l              2               0.5            0.5           <0.02 <0.02      total chromium         mg/l        2                               1            0.02    0.02
hexavalent chromium                             mg/l            0.5               0.2            0.2           <0.02 <0.02      fluorine               mg/l        8                             3.0            0.13    0.13
fluorine                                        mg/l              8                 8              8           <0.1    <0.1     phenol                 mg/l        5                             0.2             0.1     0.1
cyanide                                         mg/l              1               0.1           0.08           <0.01 <0.01      n-h mineral oils       mg/l        5                               1              1       1
1･1･1 trichloroethane                           mg/l              3               0.3            0.1          <0.0005 <0.0005   nitrogen               mg/l      120                              30             27      27
trichloroethylene                               mg/l           0.03              0.03           0.01 <0.002 <0.002              phosphorus             mg/l       16                               3             1.4     1.4
phenol                                          mg/l              5               0.4            0.4           <0.1    <0.1     soluble manganese      mg/l       10                               3            0.49    0.49
n-h mineral oils                                mg/l              5                 5              4            1.1      2      zinc                   mg/l        2                               1            0.02    0.02
nitrogen                                        mg/l           120                 60             50             11     33      solubility iron        mg/l       10                               3             1.1     1.1
phosphorus                                      mg/l            16                  8              7            1.8     5.7     coliform bacilli     piece/cm 3,000                           1,000              750    750
                                                                                                                                                             3


boron and boron com-                                                                                                            boron and boron com-
                                                mg/l           10           10            10          <0.1         <0.1                                mg/l       10                               3             0.1     0.1
pounds                                                                                                                          pounds
ammonia and ammonium compounds,                                                                                                 ammonia and ammonium compounds,
                                                mg/l          100          100           100           5.4           19                                                       mg/l          100                         50           20            20
nitrite and nitrate compounds                                                                                                   nitrite and nitrate compounds
＜ air measurement ＞                                                                                                             ＜ air measurement ＞
    item         equipment                       unit      national standard town standard voluntary standard average maximum       item        equipment                      unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
hydrogen sulfide vacuum incinerator              ppm           0.02            0.02            0.02 <0.0005 <0.0005                            once-through boiler no.1       g/m n      0.3                             0.3            0.002   0.002
                                                                                                                                                                                  3


                                                                                                                                               once-through boiler no.3       g/m n      0.3                             0.3            0.002   0.002
                                                                                                                                                                                  3
＜ noise measurement ＞                                                                                                               soot
                                                                                                                                               once-through boiler no.4 gas   g/m n      0.1                             0.1            0.002   0.003
                                                                                                                                                                                  3

                 place                           unit      national standard town standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                                                                                                                               once-through boiler no.5 gas   g/m n      0.1                             0.1            0.001   0.001
                                                                                                                                                                                  3

north (morning･evening)                          db              60              60              60             45      53
                                                                                                                                               once-through boiler no.1        ppm      260                             100               76      78
east (morning･evening)                           db              60              60              60             46      52
                                                                                                                                               once-through boiler no.3        ppm      260                             100               72      80
south (morning･evening)                          db              60              60              60             45      50          nox
                                                                                                                                               once-through boiler no.4 gas    ppm      150                             100               18      21
western angle of building d (morning･evening)    db              60              60              60             45      55
                                                                                                                                               once-through boiler no.5 gas    ppm      150                             100               17      18
west (morning･evening)                           db              60              60              60             48      54
                                                                                                                                               once-through boiler no.1       m n/h     0.13                            0.13             0.04    0.06
                                                                                                                                                                                3

graveyard (morning･evening)                      db              60              60              60             44      50          sox
                                                                                                                                               once-through boiler no.3       m n/h     0.13                            0.13             0.04    0.05
                                                                                                                                                                                3

graveyard west (morning･evening)                 db              60              60              60             42      48
         north (night)                           db              50              50              50             45     53*
                                                                                                                           1    ＜ noise measurement ＞
          east (night)                           db              50              50              50             45      49              place                                  unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
         south (night)                           db              50              50              50             44      49      east (morning･evening)                         db              65                              65             56      58
western angle of building d (morning･evening)    db              50              50              50             44      49
         west (night)                            db              50              50              50             47     50*
                                                                                                                           1


    graveyard (night)                            db              50              50              50             42      48
graveyard west (night)                           db              50              50              50             41      47
*1    the data excess by the sound of insects and frogs.


godo plant
＜ wastewater measurement - west ＞
         item                                    unit      national standard town standard voluntary standard average maximum
ph                                                         5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6                        7.7     8.1
bod                                             mg/l           160                 15             15            0.5     1.0
cod                                             mg/l           160             regulation of
                                                                              total emission
                                                                                              regulation of
                                                                                             total emission     1.3     3.8
ss                                              mg/l           200                 30             30            1.5     2.0
n-h mineral oils                                mg/l              5                 5              5            <1      <1
nitrogen                                        mg/l           120             regulation of
                                                                              total emission      60            1.0     2.7
phosphorus                                      mg/l             16            regulation of
                                                                              total emission       8           <0.05   0.05
＜ wastewater measurement - east ＞
         item                                    unit      national standard town standard voluntary standard average maximum
ph                                                         5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6                        7.4     7.9
bod                                             mg/l           160                 15             15            5.3    12.0
cod                                             mg/l           160             regulation of
                                                                              total emission
                                                                                              regulation of
                                                                                             total emission     8.9     12
ss                                              mg/l           200                 30             30            3.6      9
n-h mineral oils                                mg/l              5                 5              5            <1      <1
nitrogen                                        mg/l           120             regulation of
                                                                              total emission      60           14.6     24
phosphorus                                      mg/l             16            regulation of
                                                                              total emission       8            1.6     2.6
＜ air measurement ＞
     item              equipment                 unit national standard town standard voluntary standard average maximum
     soot               exhaust                 g/m n      0.2             0.2             0.2            0.001   0.001
                                                   3


     nox                exhaust                  ppm        60              60              60            <4.0    <4.0
＜ noise measurement ＞
         place                                   unit      national standard town standard voluntary standard average maximum
east (morning･evening)                           db              60              60              60             45      55
south (morning･evening)                          db              60              60              60             44      52
west (morning･evening)                           db              60              60              60             45      50
north (morning･evening)                          db              60              60              60             43      54
      east (night)                               db              50              50              50             43     58*
                                                                                                                           1


     south (night)                               db              50              50              50             44     56*
                                                                                                                           1


     west (night)                                db              50              50              50             43     54*
                                                                                                                           1


     north (night)                               db              50              50              50             43     59*
                                                                                                                           1



*1    the data excess by the sound of insects and frogs.

                                                                                                                                    corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 44

ibiden engineering co., ltd                                                                                    ibiden jushi co., ltd
＜ wastewater measurement ＞                                                                                     ＜ air measurement ＞
           item                unit       national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum      item      equipment        unit     national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
ph                                        5.0 ～ 9.0 5.0 ～ 9.0 5.0 ～ 9.0    7.1     7.5                                      boiler no.1                  0.3           0.3            0.24           0.01          0.01
                                                                                                                  soot                       g/m n
                                                                                                                                                  3

bod                            mg/l         600       600       600        4.5     18                                       boiler no.3                  0.3           0.3            0.24          0.006          0.006
cod                            mg/l           -         -         －        3.5     5.3                                      gas turbine                   70            70             60             49             54
ss                             mg/l         600       600       600         4       9                             nox       boiler no.1      ppm         180           180            144             54             56
copper                         mg/l           3         3         3       0.04    0.07                                      boiler no.3                  180           180            144             56             66
lead                           mg/l          0.1       0.1       0.1     <0.01   <0.01                                      boiler no.1                  7.07          7.07           5.65           0.09           0.10
                                                                                                                   sox                       m n/h
                                                                                                                                              3

chromium                       mg/l           2         2         2      <0.02   <0.02                                      boiler no.3                  3.68          3.68           2.95           0.01           0.02
hexavalent chromium            mg/l          0.5       0.5       0.5     <0.02   <0.02

                                                                                                               ibiden bussan co., ltd
fluorine                       mg/l           8         8         8       0.14    0.43
cyanide                        mg/l           1         1         1      <0.01   <0.01
1･1･1 trichloroethane          mg/l           3         3         3     <0.0005 <0.0005                        ＜ wastewater measurement ＞
1･1･2 trichloroethane          mg/l         0.06      0.06      0.06    <0.0006 <0.0006
1.3 dichloropropanes           mg/l         0.02      0.02      0.02    <0.0002 <0.0002                                  item                unit     national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
1･2 dichloroethane             mg/l         0.04      0.04      0.04    <0.0004 <0.0004                        ph                                     5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.1 ～ 8.3                   7.3            7.9
1･1 dichloroethylene           mg/l           1         1         1     <0.002 <0.002                          bod                           mg/l       160       100        80                       2.0            5.7
cis- 1･2 dichloroethylene      mg/l          0.4       0.4       0.4    <0.004 <0.004                          cod                           mg/l       160       160       128                       4.3            9.5
trichloroethylene              mg/l          0.3       0.3       0.3    <0.002   0.002                         ss                            mg/l       200        90        72                       4.3            14
tetrachloroethylene            mg/l          0.1       0.1       0.1    <0.0005 <0.0005                        n-h mineral oils              mg/l        10        10         8                       <1             <1
dichloromethane                mg/l          0.2       0.2       0.2    <0.002   0.003                         nitrogen                      mg/l       120       120        96                       2.5            6.9
carbon tetrachloride           mg/l         0.02      0.02      0.02    <0.0002 <0.0002                        phosphorus                    mg/l        16        16       12.8                     0.08           0.12
cadmium                        mg/l          0.1       0.1       0.1     <0.01   <0.01
phenol                         mg/l           5         5         5      <0.1    <0.1                          ＜ air measurement ＞
n-h mineral oils               mg/l           5         5         5        <1      <1
                                                                                                                  item      equipment        unit     national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
arsenic                        mg/l          0.1       0.1       0.1     <0.01   <0.01
                                                                                                                             boiler no.1                 0.3            0.3           0.24          0.005          0.007
alkyl mercury                  mg/l          nd        nd        nd       nd      nd
                                                                                                                             boiler no.2                 0.3            0.3           0.24          0.024          0.042
organic phosphorus             mg/l           1         1         1      <0.01   <0.01
                                                                                                                  soot       boiler no.3     g/m n       0.3            0.3           0.24          0.007          0.009
                                                                                                                                                  3

polyhalogenated biphenyl       mg/l        0.003     0.003     0.003 <0.0005 <0.0005
                                                                                                                             boiler no.4                 0.3            0.3           0.24          0.013          0.019
zinc                           mg/l           2         2         2      0.03    0.13
                                                                                                                             boiler no.5                 0.3            0.3           0.24          0.011          0.016
manganese                      mg/l          10        10        10      0.05    0.17
                                                                                                                             boiler no.1                 180            180           114            69             100
benzene                        mg/l          0.1       0.1       0.1    <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                             boiler no.2                 180            180           114            50              62
boron and boron compounds      mg/l          10        10        10      <0.10    0.35
                                                                                                                  nox        boiler no.3     ppm         180            180           114            44              51
1,4-dioxane                    mg/l          0.5       0.5       0.5     <0.05   <0.05
                                                                                                                             boiler no.4                 180            180           114            56              73
                                                                                                                             boiler no.5                 180            180           114            54              58
ibiden electronics (beijing) co., ltd.
＜ wastewater measurement ＞                                                                                     ibiden philippines,inc.
           item                unit                    city standard voluntary standard average maximum        ＜ wastewater measurement ＞
ph                                                       6～9         6.2 ～ 8.5        7.2           7.2
                                                                                                                                item                     unit       industrial park standard voluntary standard average maximum
bod                            mg/l                      300           270            28            51
                                                                                                               ph                                                    6.5-9.0        6.7-8.8          7.5            8.6
cod                            mg/l                      500           450            89           163
                                                                                                               bod                                      mg/l          500            400             90             370
ss                             mg/l                      400           360            12            14
                                                                                                               cod                                      mg/l          800            700             28              60
copper                         mg/l                        1            0.5          0.38          0.61
                                                                                                               total suspended solids, tss              mg/l          350            280              3              10
cyanide                        mg/l                        1            0.5          nd            nd
                                                                                                               ss                                       mg/l           0.5            0.4           0.23            0.50
ni                             mg/l                       0.5          0.45          nd            nd
                                                                                                               copper                                   mg/l            1             0.8           0.29            0.80
n-h mineral oils               mg/l                       10             9           1.7           2.7
                                                                                                               lead                                     mg/l           0.3           0.24            nd             nd
animal oil and vegetable oil   mg/l                      100            50           0.5           0.6
                                                                                                               chromium (hexavalent)                    mg/l           0.1           0.08            nd             nd
                                                                                                               cyanide                                  mg/l           0.2           0.16          0.003           0.08
＜ air measurement ＞
                                                                                                               nickel                                   mg/l           0.5            0.4          0.0001          0.001
           item                unit                    city standard voluntary standard average maximum        color                                    mg/l          150            120             32              96
h2so4                          mg/m                         5            4.5         0.08          0.15
                                      3
                                                                                                               oil & grease                             mg/l            5              4             1.5            2.0
               scrubber
hcl                            mg/m                        30            25          3.86          4.74        iron (dissolved)                         mg/l           10              8             nd             nd
                                    3

               emissions
hcn                            mg/m
                                    3
                                                           1.9           0.9         0.05          0.05        manganese (dissolved)                    mg/l            1             0.8         0.00001         0.0002
toluene                        mg/m
                                    3
                                                           25            20          0.06          0.09        formaldehyde                             mg/l            1             0.8           0.17           1.00
              carbon surface
phenol                         mg/m                        20            15          0.02          0.02
                                    3


nmhc
              discharge port
                               mg/m
                                    3
                                                           80            70          0.79          0.97
                                                                                                               ＜ air measurement ＞
ammonia                        mg/m
                                    3
                                                           30            25          0.50          0.78                         item                     unit       national standard voluntary standard average maximum
              deodorization                                                                                    nox                                     mg/m
                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                      2,000          1,600            403            927
hydrogen
                 tower         mg/m
                                      3
                                                            5            4.5         0.13          0.24        sox                                     mg/m
                                                                                                                                                           3
                                                                                                                                                                      1,500          1,200             22             38
sulfide
                                                                                                               particulate matter (pm)                 mg/m            150            120              18            27
                                                                                                                                                           3
soot                           mg/m                        30            25          1.45          1.90
                                      3

                                                                                                               carbon monoxide (co)                    mg/m            500            400             192            480
                                                                                                                                                           3

toluene        air exhaust     mg/m                        25            20          0.05          0.06
                                    3

                                                                                                               copper (cu)                             mg/m            100             80             nd             nd
                                                                                                                                                           3

nmhc                           mg/m                        80            70          2.26          2.67
                                    3



                                                                                                               ＜ noise measurement ＞
＜ noise measurement ＞
                                                                                                                              time                       unit       national standard voluntary standard average maximum
           time                unit                    city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                                                                                               morning (5am - 9am)                        db             65             56             54             55
         daytime               db（a）                       65           64.5          54            57
                                                                                                               daytime (9am - 6 pm)                       db             70             57             54             55
         nightime              db（a）                       55           54.5          52           54.3
                                                                                                               evening (6 pm - 10 pm)                     db             65             55             53             53
                                                                                                               nighttime (10 pm - 5 am)                   db             60             56             52             53
ibiden electronics malaysia sdn. bhd.
＜ wastewater measurement ＞
                  item                       unit      national standard voluntary standard average maximum
ph                                                       5.5-9.0      6.2-8.3         7.4           7.7
bod                                         mg/l           50           50            14            36
cod                                         mg/l          200          100            76           139
total suspended solids, tss                 mg/l          100          100            29            61
copper                                      mg/l            1           0.5          0.15          0.32
lead                                        mg/l           0.5          0.5          0.01          0.01
chromium (hexavalent)                       mg/l          0.05         0.05          0.01          0.01
cyanide                                     mg/l           0.1          0.1          0.02          0.06
nickel                                      mg/l            1            1           0.02          0.06
color                                       admi          200          200            23            49
oil & grease                                mg/l           10           10            2.6           5.0
iron (dissolved)                            mg/l            5            5           0.13          1.04
manganese (dissolved)                       mg/l            1            1           0.15          0.16
formaldehyde                                mg/l            2            2           0.21          0.51

＜ noise measurement ＞
                time                         unit      national standard voluntary standard average maximum
daytime (7 am - 10 pm)                        db           70            70           65
nightime (10 pm - 7 am)                       db           60            60           60                           corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 45

social contribution



we are pressing ahead with a global field of view to implement activities to contribute to the regions where
we are deploying centers of business operations




      philosophy for social contribution and promotional structure

basic policy
we aim to contribute to local communities by taking advantage of our unique corporate characteristics, in-
cluding our capacity to improve living environments and to offer opportunities for personal development. we
take part in and support groups involved in activities of this nature. we also undertake our own community
projects across the globe, tailoring them to local cultures and customs, and earning the trust of the interna-
tional community.
                                                                                                “fostering the next genera-
                    focusing on our priority areas, which are“protecting the global environment,”
     “contributing to social welfare and local communities,”and“disaster relief activities,”we promote the
tion,”
social contribution activities of the ibiden group, and at the same time, we encourage our employees to vol-
untarily participate in non-profit social contribution activities.


promotional structure of social contribution activities
we set up social contribution contacts in the general affairs division as a specialized organization in fiscal
year 2008 and have been drafting policies and plans and organizing and operating activities. in fiscal year
2011, we established“social contribution rules.”they stipulate which activities are of priority and are to be
conducted by the domestic ibiden group, the formation of the social contribution committee to facilitate
smooth social contribution efforts, and the establishment of the social contribution fund to support the com-
    s social contribution activities and social contribution activity groups in which our employees participate.
pany’
                    the social contribution committee, which consists of representatives of group companies in japan, ap-
proves annual activities for social contribution and operates and manages the social contribution fund. the
committee also examines the details related to the recognition and rewarding of collaborative activities with
other groups promoting social contribution, such as npos and ngos, and employees’volunteer activities.


diagram of social contribution promotion system


                                                                            society (stakeholders)
social contribution activities conducted




                                                                                                                                                         social contribution activities conducted
        by the group companies




                                            social contribution contacts          plants and
                                                                                                                               employees
                                                                                                                                                                       by employees




                                           in the general aﬀairs division    the group companies

                                            organization appointed to        responsible for the                         volunteer activities of
                                           promote social contribution      activities of each plant                          employees
                                             and volunteer activities        and the companies
                                                                                                            support




                                             the ibiden group social contribution committee

                                           deliberations of the activity and determination of the budget




                                                                                                           corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 46

record of social contribution activities
                s social contribution activities are based on the four priority pillars.
the ibiden group’

  principal                                                                                                     social contribution
                                                   original program
  activities                                                                                                          system


 global          forest preservation                       community cleanup
 environ-        activities                                activities




                                                                                                                                                              social contribution fund volunteer recognition program
 mental          forest preservation activi-               cleanup activities regularly
 protection      ties implemented through                  conducted in communities
 activities      the“ibiden’s forest”                      around workplaces




                                                                                                                  social contribution fund operation system
                 product-making                            plant tour
 activities      experience
 for fostering   hydroelectric power plant visit           inviting local students to a
 the next        and product-making experi-                plant tour at ibiden hunga-
 generation      ence through the ibiden tour              ry
                 promoting learning from water

 activities
 contributing    in-house blood                            sports event
 to social       donation
 welfare and     cooperation through ac-                   holding the ibiden cup
 local           cepting blood donation                    soccer tournament etc.
 communi-        buses at plants
 ties



 disaster        support for disaster
 relief          victims
 activities      fund-raising campaigns




 protecting the global environment

grounded in the values of harmony with nature, we are conducting activities that lead to environmental pro-
tection globally.

                                  s forest”
forest building activities:“ibiden’
in fiscal year 2008, we embarked on a forest building
initiative as part of our global environmental protec-
tion activities. this activity takes place chiefly in
higashi-yokoyama, the place where ibiden was
founded, and where the company operates its initial
hydroelectric power generation business. over the
next 10 years, we will be planting trees, thinning the
forests and conducting improvement cutting in the                 ibiden not only engages in reforestation projects to stop glob-
                                                                  al warming but also provides a place where employees, their
district, with an approximate total area of 4 0 hect-             families and local residents can experience forest building.
ares in the town of ibigawa. together with the local
public, employees and their family members, we will
continue to carry out sustainability activities aimed at
maintaining harmony with nature.
    in collaboration with the local authorities, its resi-
dents, and nonprofit organizations (npos), we
undertake projects ranging from nature walks to com-
munity exchange using the forests and local cultures.
    we held activities 20 times over a five-year period
until fiscal year 2012, with the participation of a total         in collaboration with local residents, we hold hands-on classes
of 1,700 people (excluding staff members), and                    using thinned wood as part of tree-planting and autumn forest
planted approximately 1000 trees. we will continue                activities.
to make efforts to build forests loved by communities
while widening the circle of participants.
                                                                        corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 47

[planting activities worldwide]
<ibiden philippines, inc.“tree planting”>
we carry out tree-planting activities on the premises of and around the first phil-
ippine industrial park (fpip) where the ipi plant is located. in fiscal year 2012, we
held tree-planting events twice, in july and october. the events were attended
by volunteers among the employees and their families, who planted 1 0 0 trees
each.

<ibiden electronics (beijing) co., ltd.:“tree-planting”>
ibiden electronics (beijing) co., ltd. conducted tree-planting activities for three consecutive years. some 200
employees and their families participated in the tree-planting activities, which raised awareness of global envi-
ronmental protection.


[actions for a cleaner community]
<ibiden domestic groups: voluntary cleanup activ-
ity in a community>
the ibiden group regularly conducts community
cleanup and beautification activities in the areas
where it operates. in 2012, more than 6,000 of our
employees took part in the group’    s self-initiated
actions. in addition, a number of the group’ s alum-
ni and employees serve as volunteer crew for
cleanup activities organized by municipal govern-        clean-river action                  group alumni’  s environmental
                                                                                             beautification action
ments (such as the city of ogaki) and local npos.

<ibiden philippines, inc.: community cleanup activity>
                                                             working in partnership with local residents, ipi car-
                                                             ries out community cleanup activities. moreover,
                                                             since 2 0 1 0, we have been continuing activities to
                                                             convert the plant’s unused oil drums made of resin
                                                             into garbage cans and donate them for the purpose
                                                             of community cleanup. in fiscal year 2012, we made
                                                             donations to a local fisheries school as part of the
                                                             school support program, as part of collaboration
                                                             among companies at the industrial park.


[participation in the co2 reduction / light-down japan 2012]
we take part in the co2 reduction / light-down (i.e. lights-off) campaign being run by the ministry of the en-
vironment as a means to stop global warming. during the campaign period, the lights for the rooftop
signboard at our aoyanagi plant were switched off at certain times.



 fostering the next generation

we are promoting activities for the development of young people to foster the next generation for the future.

ibiden tour – learning from“water”
since 2010, we have been conducting two-day and one-night tours to support edu-
cation about the power of nature and electricity through a visit to the
higashi-yokoyama power plant, which has been operating since our establishment,
and product-making experience.
    while learning about the history of the region’ s development, both parents and
children study the structure and functions of a water wheel, which generates electric-
ity using the power of water, by actually making one. we offered the tour to local
elementary school students and their parents in fiscal year 2012, and all of the 12
participating families consisting of 31 people evaluated the tour as“satisfactory.”


                                                              corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 48

[ibiden hungary kft.: plant visits]
                             ibiden hungary kft. gives plant tours to students at a local university and others.
                             a tour includes a plant visit, briefing on dpf and exchanges of opinion. student
                             visitors enjoy rare opportunities to view production lines in operation and devel-
                             op a better understanding of work performed by a variety of people through in-
                             formation exchanges.




 contributing to social welfare and local communities

we are contributing to social welfare and local communities to cooperate with local communities as well as
to facilitate local development.

[participation in the mikoshi parade in the jumangoku festival in ogaki]
the ibiden group is a regular participant in the kigyo mikoshi (portable shire) parade section of the juman-
goku festival hosted by the city of ogaki every october.
ibiden’ s scope of involvement expanded in fiscal 2 0 0 9,
when its employees initiated post-festival cleaning activi-
ties around the thoroughfare leading to the main train
station. ibiden strongly advocates local revitalization ef-
forts, which it tries to help by amplifying the festival spirit
together with local residents.


[ibiden cup youth soccer tournament]
                              we annually hold a youth soccer tournament in autumn for the development
                              of young people and local revitalization through sports. in 2012, 45 teams of
                              boys and girls from not only gifu prefecture but also aichi, mie, and shiga pre-
                              fectures participated in the tournament, where they played exciting games.




[support for the ibigawa marathon]
we provide support for the ibigawa marathon, a sporting event that takes place in the town of ibigawa-cho
every november. the company not only serves as an official sponsor but also makes parking spots available
at its plant in ibigawa-cho to help with traffic control. furthermore, the company recruits volunteers from with-
in for positions such as water station staff to help organize the event.

[supporting the ibiden cup moms’volleyball tournament]
the group’  s social contribution committee works with seinou regional
moms’volleyball association to host annual the ibiden cup moms’volleyball
tournament. approximately 400 members from 30 teams took part in the sev-
enth annual tournament in fiscal year 2012.
   the company’   s women’s volleyball team also hosts social events and skills
workshops with mothers as well as children from local elementary, middle and
high schools to promote regional community revitalization through volleyball.


 stakeholders’voice: ms. miyoko yamamoto, president of seinou moms’volleyball association
 this year, the eighth annual ibiden cup volleyball tournament will take place with the
 full support of the social contribution committee of the ibiden group. we are deeply
 grateful for the heartfelt support from ibiden and many hours of instruction provided by
 the ibiden women’    s volleyball team, through which our mothers were able to improve
 their skills as well as form lasting bonds with one another. we hope that the tourna-
 ment, which provides an opportunity to learn so many things, will continue for many
 more years to come. the entire association also wishes to express its continued sup-
 port for the ibiden women’    s volleyball team.
                                                             corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 49

[in-house blood donation drives]
the group has registered itself as a japan red cross blood donation supporter, running blood donation
drives. we are working to secure a stable supply of blood by focusing mainly on efforts in winter, when the
number of blood donors decreases.
    in fiscal year 2012, a total of 436 participants cooperated in blood donation drives at eight locations in-
cluding group companies. this event also takes place annually at ibiden philippines, inc. and ibiden electron-
ics malaysia sdn. bhd. ibiden hungary kft. also hosts the event twice a year.



 encouraging volunteerism

we are promoting social contribution and volunteer activities to encourage our employees’voluntary, self-mo-
tivated participation in volunteer activities.

[volunteer encouragement program]
ibiden and its domestic group companies provide special leave for volunteers (a special paid leave of up to 7
days a year) as a volunteering encouragement program. in addition, the social contribution committee grants
awards to employees according to our internal rules.



[
“chovola activities”simple action to start volunteering]
                           as volunteer activities in which anyone can casually participate, we are facilitat-
                           ing“chovola activities”within the group, in which spoiled postcards, used
                           stamps and plastic bottle caps are collected and donated. using a simple activity
                           as an opportunity for our employees to start volunteering, we deliver information
                           on local volunteer programs internally and invite the employees to participate in
                           a wide range of volunteer activities.
                              in fiscal year 2012, we donated wheelchairs to local welfare organizations in
                           cooperation with the activities of a local elementary school.

[synchronized actions between oversea bases and japan]
furthermore, in fiscal year 2009, the company began hosting fund-raising
activities during the year-end/new year period, targeting former and cur-
rent employees in japan, collecting unwanted books and cds for donation
of the proceeds. in fiscal year 2012, donations were made to an environ-
mental protection group in the philippines as well as a children’s protec-
tion group in malaysia. ibiden philippines, inc. participated in activities
hosted by the environmental protection group by providing instructors,
while ibiden electronics malaysia sdn. bhd. sent its employees to present the group with the donations col-
lected from within the company and in japan, together with essential goods that children need, and spent
time to meet and socialize with its members.

[ibiden u.s.a. corp.: participating in and in-house fund-raising for the aids walk]
ibiden u.s.a. corp. recruited volunteer employees to participate in the aids walk in san francisco. some vol-
unteers also led fund-raising activity by collecting donations to help seek a cure for aids.

[ibiden philippines, inc. support activities for the local youth]
                                    we donate stationery to support elementary school students and young
                                    children in the region.
                                        a campaign is carried out each year to collect stationery from our em-
                                    ployees for donation to elementary schoolchildren. in fiscal year 2012, the
                                    amount of donations exceeded that of the previous year and 180 individu-
                                    al sets (1,468 items) were given out. employees also volunteered to help
                                    pack the stationery.
                                                            corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 50

social responsibility for our products




 quality management that supports customers-first values

basic approach
by consistently developing cutting-edge technologies, ibiden contributes to the creation of a comfortable it
society as well as a society where cars and nature coexist through the proposal and supply of high-value-
added products. considering its“customer first”policy as one of its virtues, the group meets the needs of
customers through unique technologies and designs that take into account the global environment. we
understand that our greatest mission is to consistently supply safe and reliable products. we seek to achieve
a high level of customer satisfaction by putting customer needs at the forefront of our product development
process, accepting only the highest quality at the design stage, incorporating mechanisms that ensure quality
into the product-making stage, and creating a management system that provides the necessary support.

the group’ s basic policy for the quality of electronics operation: based on the concept of quality first, we will
achieve customer satisfaction by clearly grasping customer needs and producing and providing reliable
products through our unique technological capabilities.
   the group’ s basic policy for the quality of ceramics operation: through ibi-techno, we will incorporate
customers’real and potential needs and add values to such needs while striving to provide moving
experiences to customers through our product-making, which continually gives top priority to quality.



quality assurance system
the ibiden group has a quality assurance organization at each
operation, with the executive vice president as a main officer in
charge of company-wide quality assurance.
    to benefit our customers and the community with quality
products, we conduct design reviews and hold quality assurance
meetings to study the design and specifications at each stage of the
manufacturing process, from the development of cutting-edge
technologies, through product planning and design, to mass
production. furthermore, to improve quality, we offer guidance and
audits, including assessment by the top management, at workplaces
in japan and overseas, and also provide business partners with              performance evaluation of sic-dpfs with
guidance for quality improvement.                                           engine bench test
    moreover, from fiscal year 2012, we kicked off and promote              we are updating the engine and evaluation
                                                                            system to meet the latest exhaust emission
ongoing quality improvement activities under the initiative of the          regulations.
quality assurance division for the purpose of increasing customer
satisfaction with an emphasis on quality. a global quality assurance
meeting is called every three months to ensure that the entire group
is on board.



quality management system
in our electronics-related operation, since the acquisition of iso 9001 certification in march 1995, we have
been actively upgrading our quality management systems on an ongoing basis. we are striving to offer
products that exceed the expectations and needs of our customers. in our ceramics-related operation, we
obtained iso/ts 16949 certification, an international standard for quality management in the automobile
industry, in japan in october 2003. this certification was also obtained at global manufacturing locations in
fiscal year 2006. we are building a system to offer high-quality products at a global level, upgrading the level
of quality.



measures for enhancement of customer satisfaction
the sales division in charge of customer relations gathers various types of information on technologies and
complaints and informs each division about them. each operation reviews the level of customer satisfaction,
which they check on a regular basis in training camps. measures to enhance customer satisfaction are taken
under the leadership of the management. for the customer support that we provide primarily through the
sales division and our state-of-the-art products, we have gained a high reputation from our customers
including manufacturers of electrical equipment, semiconductors and automobiles.


                                                             corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 51

development of human resources that sustain quality
so that we can benefit from the experience of our workers and develop human resources capable of creating
new value, we offer systematic education to all employees.
    going forward, the focus will be on four ibi-techno capabilities in management of business, management
of technology, total productive management, management capability, in accordance with the tpm approach
for developing human resources that practice the customers-first principle. determining the degree of progress
at each step, we aim to boost skills and motivation. accurately reviewing the ever-evolving value of our
business activities from the customers’perspective based on the level of customer satisfaction, we aspire to
be an enterprise that continues to grow.



tpm activities
since 1989, ibiden has been implementing tpm activities as initiatives to improve the company’     s system.
    we are further developing our activities to strengthen and rebuild our core business competitiveness
through ipm activities with the objective of becoming the industry leader in competitiveness by combining
ibi-techno capabilities. we are developing the following three activities, through which we are thoroughly
reinforcing tpm activities and improving our on-site capabilities.
(1) promotion of base activity based on employee involvement through genchi genbutsu (go and see for
    yourself to thoroughly understand the situation).
(2) improvement in technological capabilities and implementation of cost structure reform that far surpass our
    competitors.
(3) maintenance of management activities through standardization and thorough education and training.
    to assist in global tpm activities, a tpm global conference is held annually to showcase the best practices
within the group. since fiscal year 2002, personnel from overseas group companies have attended this con-
ference. in fiscal year 2013, ibiden hungary kft. will attempt to reach category a of the tpm excellence
award, while all employees will participate in tpm activities that aim to strengthen manufacturing capabilities
and help reach the target cost.



customer satisfaction and quality improvement initiatives chart


                                                       customer satisfaction
                                        offering safe, reassuring and eco-friendly products

                                                       p                                            s
                               d                                                                                              d
  customers-
  first activities
                                    design and                          quality                  product-making
                                                                                                                                      p=plan
                                                                                                                                      s=standard
                                    developing                                                                                        d=do
                                                                                                                                      c=check
                               c                                                                                              c       a=action


                           diligent
                                                       a                                             a                            tpm activity
                                                                                                                          (total productive management)
                         quality care
                           from the
                          beginning                        ems                               qms
                                                       (environmental                         (quality
                                                        management                          management
                                                           system)                            system)
                                                                        core system

  systems                                 isms
                                        (information                                                            ic
  supporting                               security
                                        management
                                                                                                         (internal control)

  customers-                               system)
                                                                          ohsas
  first practices                                                        (occupational
                                                                        health and safety
                                                                          assessment
                                                                             series)


                                                                                corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 52

corporate responsibility goal summary
upon the revision of the ibiden group charter of behavior, from fiscal year 2011, we have deployed the
revised csr activities. the implemented activities aimed at addressing medium-term goals and issues based
on the revised charter of behavior are as follows.

                                                                                                                                         item implemented in fiscal            item for implementation
                                                     ibiden group
                                                                                              medium-term targets                       year 2012 and management               plan and targets in fiscal
                                                   charter of behavior
                                                                                                                                            indices for outcomes                      year 2013
                                                                                        understanding laws and regulations              implemented a selection of            fostering a corporate culture
                                                                                        of each country or region and                   important laws and regulations to     with no violations of laws and
                                                           we comply with laws,         monitoring the compliance.                      establish a system of compliance.     regulations.
                                                           regulations and ethical                                                      associated the specialized works of   enhancing legal education.
article 1: compliance with laws,




                                                           requirements of the                                                          each division with important laws
                                                           countries and regions                                                        and regulations.
                                                           where its business
     regulations, and ethics




                                                           operations are based.        making a clarifying statement about             conducted a systematization of        managing activities to ensure
                                                           we work against              corporate rules and ethics to                   standardized manuals.                 that standardized manuals are
                                                           corruption in all its        educate employees, and monitoring               monitored compliance with the         the latest version.
                                                           forms, and carry out         the compliance.                                 standards for employee behavior.      monitoring compliance with the
                                                           open and fair corporate                                                      started educational activities to     standards for employee
                                                           activities with the                                                          improve the understanding of all      behavior and promoting
                                                           intention of becoming a                                                      employees.                            corrective action.
                                                           company that enjoys          eliminating anti-social forces (such            collected information to eliminate    auditing matters at high risk in
                                                           the confidence of the        as organized crime and corporate                anti-social forces.                   terms of corruption or violation.
                                                           international community.     democrat) from the group’    s business         verified internal control over        continuously collecting
                                                           we also protect and          fields, and operating a system to               financial reporting.                  information to eliminate
                                                           properly manage              prevent faults.                                                                       anti-social forces.
                                                           personal and customer
                                                           data and other types of      making a clarifying statement and               conducted a review of the             upgrading the level of audit
                                                           information.                 sharing how to protect and manage               management regulations related to     quality to information security.
                                                                                        information of the group, and                   information security.                 organizing and operating rules
                                                                                        monitoring the compliance.                                                            related to information security.
                                                                                        disclosing corporate information                prepared a draft of web-related       implementing a review of the
                                                                                        comprehensibly and fairly with the accurate     guidelines.                           information management
                                                                                        control. in addition, building up a system to   implemented appropriate               system.
       article 2: development together with stakeholders




                                                                                        provide clear explanation rapidly to the        responses to crises and related
                                                                                        society in case of problem occurrence.          procedures.
                                                                                        regularly arranging meetings to                 maintained communication              maintaining communication
                                                                                        exchange opinions with employees                between labor and management.         between labor and
                                                                                        and local communities, and sharing              implemented regional risk             management.
                                                                                        the proposition and taking the                  communication.                        implementing regional risk
                                                           we develop together          measures.                                                                             communication.
                                                           with our stakeholders,
                                                           so we enhance the            conveying our policy to suppliers               implemented audit and                 putting in place a set of rules
                                                           transparency of              and building up a system to                     enforcement to upgrade the level      for relevant issues and
                                                           management and build         implement csr management with                   of supply chain csr management.       establishing a system of audits.
                                                           a trustworthy                them.                                           conducted monitoring of               promoting csr activities to
                                                           relationship through                                                         compliance with the csr guidelines    suppliers.
                                                           communication. we also                                                       and the improvements.
                                                           actively engage in           establishing philosophy, system and             continuously implemented a youth      continuously implementing a
                                                           community-based              domain of social contribution                   development program.                  youth development program.
                                                           activities that contribute   activities, and encouraging
                                                           to society as a good                                                                                               (1) continuing the programs
                                                                                        cooperation with local communities                                                    related to water and electricity.
                                                           corporate citizen.           and voluntary social participation of
                                                                                                                                                                              (2) continuing the programs
                                                                                        employees.
                                                                                                                                                                              related to product-making.
                                                                                        from the perspective of risk                    implemented procedures on how         adjusting measures according
                                                                                        management, preparing a system to               to develop an operational system      to the damage estimation.
                                                                                        report the management layer                     and what to implement in case of      conducting risk management
                                                                                        promptly and to minimize damages                disaster.                             related to environment as well
                                                                                        including to take preventive                    conducted risk management             as health and safety.
                                                                                        measures in case of an emergency                related to environment as well as
                                                                                        occurrence.                                     health and safety

                                                           we provide customer       properly monitoring customer         developed a new medium-term        monitoring customer
article 3: providing




                                                                                     satisfaction and operating a system management plan.                    satisfaction, and highlighting
 customer delight




                                                           delight, so we have a
                                                           good understanding of     to implement the pdca cycle.         monitored customer satisfaction,   various issues.
                                                           social trends, future                                          and highlighted various issues.
                                                           needs and develop. we * additionally we are addressing with the following targets: monitor of market demands, challenges to new
                                                           provide safe and secure     fields, and reform and improvement of existing fields.
                                                           products and services to
                                                           maximize our customer’  s
                                                           satisfaction by growing
                                                           ibi-techno.




                                                                                                                                            corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 53

                                                                                                                                       item implemented in fiscal                                  item for implementation
                                            ibiden group
                                                                                      medium-term targets                             year 2012 and management                                     plan and targets in fiscal
                                          charter of behavior
                                                                                                                                          indices for outcomes                                            year 2013
                                                                               reflecting the group charter of behavior and          practiced and developed an          developing global leaders able
                                                                               the guidelines to the implementation items of         education system to train and       to manage and succeed on the
                                                                               the group companies, and localizing it to             select the leaders among the global global stage.
                                                                               reflect the characteristics of local management       human resources.
article 4: management based on




                                                                               with deepening mutual understanding of norms,
                                                                               culture and customs of each country or region.
                                                  we manage our group          respecting basic labor rights as international norms, strengthen working-hour                                      conducting personnel policies
                                                                               and improving the working condition and environment management and implemented an                                  that meet the global standards.
         global standards




                                                  based on global
                                                  standards. we respect        properly according to the circumstances such as rules assessment of welfare facilities.
                                                  human rights and other       and regulations of each country and region.
                                                  international norms of
                                                                               familiarizing employees with top                      renewed the corporate philosophy, spreading the“ibiden way”
                                                  behavior. also, we
                                                                               management’   s basic posture on corporate            the“ibiden way,”and the brand     throughout domestic and
                                                  respect culture and
                                                                               philosophy, the charter of behavior and the           logo mark embodying our           overseas companies.
                                                  customs in each country
                                                                               standards for employee behavior.                      commitment.
                                                  or region concerned
                                                  when carrying out our        establishing internal and external information        implemented education to improve the                         expanding educational activities
                                                  corporate activity.          gathering counter that is secured anonymity,          reliability of the compliance counter.                       to deal with issues and important
                                                                               protection and non prejudice of                       reported summarized information of                           matters through operation of the
                                                                               whistleblowers, and formalizing it.                   incidents dealt with by compliance counter.                  compliance counter.
                                                                               conducting and documenting the following              improved the function of regional head office companies      resolving issues related to audit and
                                                                               process: audit of the status of effects, extraction   in terms of the global audit.                                risk management reporting.
                                                                               of issues, indication of measures, and                improved the financial control function with activities to   improving the effectiveness of audits
                                                                               implementation of improvement activities.             follow up correction of matters pointed out in audits.       to the audited divisions.
                                                                               operating a eco-friendly system in                    started operation to build a system of conducting energy-saving
                                                                               product lifecycle (procurement,                       eco-friendly design.                   assessment on new and
                                                                               design, production, use and                           managed information on materials and renewal products.
                                                                               disposal).                                            energy at all stages of product cycle.
                                                                             continuously reducing environmental                     implemented activities to reduce energy                      improving loss on the energy
                                                                             burdens and costs by striving to                        cost based on energy-saving criteria.                        supply side.
                                                                             develop innovative technologies and                     completed the energy-saving plan by                          reducing energy costs through
      article 5: harmony with nature




                                                                             products for a low-carbon society as                    visualizing plans (a reduction of 8% in co2                  energy-saving activities.
                                                  we harmonize with          wall as to make energy-saving                           emission per basic unit of production
                                                  nature in all areas of our improvements in production activities.                  compared to fiscal year 2008).
                                                  corporate activities. we
                                                                             continuously implementing cyclical use of               started efforts to recycle waste plastic into                implementing water conservation
                                                  manage to develop
                                                                             resources and cost reduction by                         valuable materials.                                          in the manufacturing process and
                                                  technologies to achieve
                                                                             promoting development and improvement                   reduced water and waste per basic unit of                    activities to reduce wastewater,
                                                  good balance between
                                                                             of 3r (reduce, reuse, recycle) technology.              production (a reduction of 26% in the water                  effluent and chemicals.
                                                  the environment and
                                                                                                                                     withdrawal unit load rate and 6% in the waste                reducing loss through mass
                                                  business, and we
                                                                                                                                     unit load rate compared to fiscal year 2008).                balance monitoring.
                                                  provide environmentally
                                                  friendly products and      establishing management systems                         revised green procurement                                    implementing risk management
                                                  services by promoting      such as chemical management,                            guidelines.                                                  to prevent the spread of
                                                  energy and resource        pollution prevention management                         strengthened secondary                                       harmful chemicals.
                                                  conservation activities.   and disaster prevention                                 earthquake disaster prevention.                              building a centralized control
                                                                             management, and enforcing risk                          conducted an environment-related                             system of chemical substances.
                                                                             mitigation activities continuously.                     audit of important suppliers.
                                                                               determining the specific activities of                created the next activities program                          implementing development
                                                                               biodiversity, and contributing                        for“ibiden’s forest.”                                        activities of“ibiden’s forest.”
                                                                               actively to nature conservation.                                                                                   (1) execution of development and
                                                                                                                                                                                                  maintenance activities for planting.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  (2) continuation of logging and
                                                                                                                                                                                                  development activities of the forest.
                                                                               preparing work environment to improve                 extended the applicable period for the short-time            continuing implementation of parental leave
                                                                               productivity and diversification of employment        work system.                                                 interviews.
                                                                               formats, and improving work environment and           extended the period in which to take parental leave.         fostering a corporate culture by transmitting
                                                                               institution for employees to work on with ease.       implemented interviews to those who return to                information on an ongoing basis.
                                                                                                                                     work after a parental leave.                                 enhancing the personnel system.
      article 6: attractive and vibrant company




                                                                               clarifying what type of human      established an education system to                                              enhancing education for global human
                                                                               resources and skills should be     develop human resource through                                                  resource development.
                                                                               needed by occupation or grade, and the ipm activities.                                                             improving the operation of e-learning.
                                                  we aim to become an          enhancing the career development                                                                                   supporting human resource
                                                  attractive and vibrant       activities.                                                                                                        development through ipm activities.
                                                  company on the basis of
                                                  fair, equitable and result   establishing and maintaining an        discussed a review of the                                                   enhancing education of the
                                                  oriented employee            evaluation and compensation system management-by-objectives system.                                                management-by-objectives
                                                  evaluation personnel         for fair appraisal and fair treatment.                                                                             system.
                                                  system. we aim to have
                                                  a safe and comfortable       operating an occupational safety and                  undertook prioritized reduction activities                   implementing activities to
                                                  working environment.         health system to prevent work-                        based on analysis of industrial accidents                    upgrade the safety management
                                                  we create a rewarding        related accidents in all stages from                  during the previous fiscal year.                             level for zero serious accidents.
                                                  corporate culture that       planning to maintenance of facility.                  conducted thorough risk assessment to                        implementing understanding of
                                                  the employee can                                                                   anticipate potential accidents and hazards                   work environment conditions
                                                  respect for each                                                                   (hiyari-hatto activity).                                     and managing risk with not only
                                                  diversity, and fully                                                               established a contractors safety & health                    laws and regulations but also
                                                  exercise their skills and                                                          promotion meeting to expand safety                           self-imposed regulation.
                                                  abilities.                                                                         activities at contractor companies
                                                                                                                                     (the number of occupational accidents
                                                                                                                                     shows a downward trend: 38 ⇒ 27 cases).
                                                                               working to improve health of mind                     implemented education of                                     starting health management
                                                                               and body of employees.                                administrators based on mental                               activities during five-year plan
                                                                                                                                     health case studies.                                         periods (the next 105 plan).
                                                                                                                                     implemented a health promotion                               strengthening education related
                                                                                                                                     program through promotion of the                             to harassment and mental
                                                                                                                                     100 health plan.                                             health.

                                                                                                                                            corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 54

corporate information (as of march 31, 2013)

 company outline
trade name:             ibiden co., ltd.
established:            november 25, 1912
capital:                ¥64,152 million
representative:         hiroki takenaka, president & ceo
number of employees: consolidated 11,879 non-consolidated 3,549
office and plants
head office:            2-1, kanda-cho, ogaki city, gifu 503-8604, japan tel: 0584-81-3111
branches:               tokyo, osaka
plants:                 gifu prefecture (ogaki, ogaki central, aoyanagi, gama, ogaki-kita, godo);
                        aichi prefecture (kinuura); tokyo research laboratory
number of subsidiaries: consolidated subsidiaries: 41 (17 in japan, 24 overseas)

 main business lines
business segments                                      main products/business areas
electronics operation printed wiring boards, package substrates, and pattern design for printed wiring boards
                        environment-related ceramics products, graphite specialty products, fine ceramics
ceramics operation
                        products, ceramics fiber
housing materials housing equipment, melamine decorative laminates and decorative laminates related
operation               products
c o n s t r u c t i o n design and construction of civil engineering works including slop protection construction
operation               and landscape gardening, as well as of environmental facilities
                        synthetic resin processing, agriculture, livestock, and fishery processing, oil products sales,
other operations
                        provision of information and other services

 change in business results
net sales                                              operating income                                      ordinary income
 （billion yen）                                       （billion yen）                                          （billion yen）
  500                                                   50                                                     50
  400                                                   40                                                     40
                                                                               33.8                                                        33.5
             309.3           304.9   300.8
  300                274.2                   285.9      30                                                     30
                                                                        21.2
                                                        20                                                     20                 19.4
  200                                                                                  15.5                                                       16.2
                                                                 10.5                                                                                    10.8
  100                                                   10                                     5.4             10
                                                                                                                            3.4
      0                                                   0                                                      0
             2008 2009 2010 2011 2012（fy）                       2008 2009 2010 2011 2012（fy）                           2008 2009 2010 2011 2012（fy）

net income                                             net sales composition by business segments            net sales by geographical segments
  （billion yen）
    40                                                 other 7.1%                       electronics 53.8%             other                        japan
                                                                                                                      20,994 million yen           75,565 million yen
                                                       construction 4.4%
    30                                                                                                           europe
                                                       housing                                                   40,163 million yen
                             19.7
    20                                                 materials 8.4%
                     11.8            10.6
    10                                                                                                           north america
                                                                                                                 9,405 million yen
                                              2.2
             △8.7
      0
                                                                                                                 asia
                                                                                                                 139,817 million yen
                                                       ceramics 26.3%
             2008 2009 2010 2011 2012（fy）
                                                                                                            net sales are classified by country or region based
                                                                                                            on the location of customers.


 disclosure of financial information
ibiden takes steps to disclose information at appropriate times to share-                                             website for shareholders and investors
holders and investors in a fair, accurate, and easy-to-understand manner.                                         http://www.ibiden.com/ir/index.html
pursuant to the timely disclosure rule of the tokyo stock exchange, our
information disclosure standards require the disclosure of information rel-
evant to our operations, scope of business, and assets that could signifi-
cantly affect investment judgments, as well as any changes or suspension
of important corporate information that has already been published. our
policy is to disclose such information proactively and fairly. we will also
disclose corporate information that could significantly influence invest-
ment judgments even if the timely disclosure rule does not apply, as ac-
curately, promptly and appropriately as possible.
                                                                                                                top page of ir website

                                                                                      corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 55

 main subsidiaries and affiliates

              company- japan                                location                            main business
ibiden electronics industries co., ltd.           ogaki, gifu                manufacture of electronic substrates
ibiden greentec co., ltd.                         ogaki, gifu                design and construction of special works
ibiden chemicals co., ltd.                        ogaki, gifu                manufacture and sales of chemical products
ibiken co., ltd.                                  ogaki, gifu                sale of housing materials
ibiden graphite co., ltd.                         ogaki, gifu                manufacture of graphite products
ibiden industries co., ltd.                       ogaki, gifu                sale of products and equipments
tak co., ltd.                                     ogaki, gifu                information services
ibiden jushi co., ltd.                            ibi-gun, gifu              manufacture of foamed-resin products
                                                                             processing of agricultural and marine
ibiden bussan co., ltd.                           motosu, gifu
                                                                             products
                                                                             design and construction of mechanical
ibiden engineering co., ltd.                      ogaki, gifu
                                                                             facilities
ibiden career techno corp.                        ogaki, gifu                temporary staffing services
ibiden kenso co., ltd.                            ogaki, gifu                sale of housing materials


            company- overseas                               location                            main business
                                                                             investment and finance in u.s.a., and sales
ibiden u.s.a. corp.                               u.s.a.
                                                                             of products
micro mech,inc.                                   u.s.a.                     manufacture of graphite products
                                                                             investment and finance in europe, and sales
ibiden europe b.v.                                netherlands
                                                                             of the products
ibiden hungary kft.                               hungary                    manufacture of ceramic products
ibiden dpf france s.a.s.                          france                     manufacture of ceramic products
ibiden france s.a.s.                              france                     sales of products
ibiden porzellanfabrik frauenthal gmbh            austria                    manufacture of ceramic products
ibiden philippines,inc.                           philippines                manufacture of electronics substrates
ibiden electronics (beijing) co., ltd.            p.r.c.                     manufacture of electronics substrates
ibiden electronics (shanghai) co., ltd.           p.r.c.                     sales of products
ibiden electronics technology (shanghai) co., ltd. p.r.c.                    design of electronics substrates
ibiden asia holdings pte., ltd.                   singapore                  investment and finance in asia
ibiden singapore pte. ltd.                        singapore                  sales of products
ibiden electronics malaysia sdn. bhd.             malaysia                   manufacture of electronics substrates
ibiden graphite korea co., ltd.                   korea                      manufacture of graphite products
ibiden korea co., ltd.                            korea                      sales of products
ibiden taiwan co., ltd.                           taiwan                     sales of products

the company had 41 consolidated subsidiaries including the above companies as of march 31, 2013.




                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 56

 board of directors/organization
                                                       board of directors                                                csr promotion division
 board of directors
                                                     board of corporate auditors    strategic corporate
representative director      yoshifumi iwata                                        planning operation
                                                                                                                         office of the president

                                                                                                                              finance division
representative director      hiroki takenaka
                                                                                                                                legal division
representative director      hironobu kodaka
                                                                                                                         enterprises administrative division
director                     shigeyasu kurita
                                                                                                                         human resources division
director                     keiichi sakashita
                                                                                                                         general affairs division

director                     yoichi kuwayama
                                                                                   strategic manufacturing
                                                                                                                         ipm promotion division
                                                                                          operation
director                     katsumi sagisaka
                                                                                                                         quality management division
director                     yoshiyuki iwata                                                                             global purchasing division

director                     tsuyoshi nishida                                      energy & environment
                                                                                                                         environment & safety division
                                                                                        operation
director                     takeshi aoki
                                                                                                                         environment technology division
director                     kazushige ohno                                                                              energy control division

director (outsider)          yoshitoshi toyoda
                                                                                       r&d operation                     intellectual property division
director (outsider)          shozo saito
                                                                                                                         electronic development division

                                                                                                                         ceramic development division

 auditors                                                                                                                new product development division


standing auditor             yoshio hirabayashi                                    production engineering
                                                                                                                         equipment design division
                                                                                        operation
standing auditor             katsumi mabuchi                                                                             equipment management division

auditor (outsider)           tadao kuribayashi                                                                            plant design division


auditor (outsider)           yasuhiro kumagai                                          pkg operation                     pkg business administration division

auditor (outsider)           shigenori shiota                                                                            business planning division

                                                                                                                         quality assurance division

                                                                                                                         manufacturing division
 executive officers
                                                                                                                          engineering division
chairman of the board        yoshifumi iwata
                                                                                                                                         ipi
president & ceo              hiroki takenaka
                                                                                      pwb operation                      business planning division
executive vice president     hironobu kodaka
                                                                                                                         business administration division
executive managing officer   shigeyasu kurita
                                                                                                                          engineering division

executive managing officer   keiichi sakashita                                                                                          ieb

executive managing officer   takayuki takagi                                                                                            iem

senior managing officer      yoichi kuwayama
                                                                                       ecp operation                     business administration division

senior managing officer      katsumi sagisaka                                                                            production engineering division

senior managing officer      yoshiyuki iwata                                                                              engineering division

managing officer             tsuyoshi nishida                                                                            quality assurance division

                                                                                                                         manufacturing division
managing officer             takeshi aoki
                                                                                                                                        ihu
managing officer             kazushige ohno
                                                                                                                                       idfs
managing officer             sotaro ito
                                                                                                                                        ipf
managing officer             koji kawashima
                                                                                      fgm operation                      business administration division
managing officer             masahiko ikuta
                                                                                                                          engineering division
managing officer             kozo kodama
                                                                                                                         manufacturing division
managing officer             koji shimato
                                                                                                                                tokyo branch

                                                                                                                               osaka branch



                             (as of june 30, 2013)

                                                                                    corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 57

gri index table

in formulating the ibiden csr report 2013, we referred to the gri* sustainability reporting guidelines 2006
(3rd edition: g3). this provides an objective measure of the extent to which the guidelines and other gri
reporting framework elements have been applied. we evaluated this year’     s report as achieving application
level b by self-assessment.
* gri (global reporting initiative): an independent institution whose mission is to develop and disseminate
  globally applicable sustainability reporting guidelines.
                      report application level                           c                    c+                                        b                   b+                                        a                  a+

                                                         report on                                                        report on all criteria
                                               out put



                                                         1.1                                                              listed for level c plus:
                      g3 profile                                                                                                                                                       same as requirement for
                                                         2.1-2.10                                                         1.2
                      disclosure                                                                                                                                                       level b
                                                         3.1-3.8, 3.10-3.12                                               3.9, 3.13
                                                         4.1-4.4, 4.14-4.15                                               4.5-4.13, 4.16-4.17




                                                                                              report externally assured




                                                                                                                                                           report externally assured




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         report externally assured
standard disclosure




                                               out put




                      g3 disclosures                                                                                      management approach                                          management approach
                      on management                      not required                                                     disclosures for each                                         disclosed for each
                      approach                                                                                            indicator category                                           indicator category


                                                                                                                                                                                       respond on each core and
                                                         report fully on a minimum                                        report fully on a minimum of
                                                                                                                                                                                       sector supplement*
                      g3 performance                     of any 10 performance                                            any 20 performance indicators,
                                               out put




                                                                                                                                                                                       indicator with due regard to
                      indicators & sector                indicators,including at                                          at least one from each of:
                                                                                                                                                                                       the materiality principle by
                      supplement                         least one from each of:                                          economic, environment,
                                                                                                                                                                                       either: a) reporting on the
                      performance indicators             social, economic, and                                            human rights, labor, society,
                                                                                                                                                                                       indicator or b) explaining
                                                         environment.                                                     product responsibility.
                                                                                                                                                                                       the reason for its omission.
                                                                                                                                                                                       *sector supplement in final version


                                                                                                                                                 corporate social responsibility report 2013
                                                             gri indicator
                                                                                                                                                  pages                                      corresponding topics
    1. strategy and analysis
                                                                                                                                                     p2                                 top message
                      statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization
                                                                                                                                                                                        ibiden way/challenge ibi
                  1.1 (e.g., ceo, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of                                                       p5                                 techno 105 plan
                      sustainability to the organization and its strategy.
                                                                                                                                                     p6                                 csr policy and promotional structure
                                                                                                                                                    p2                                  top message
                                                                                                                                                    p6                                  csr policy and promotional structure
                  1.2 description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities.
                                                                                                                                                  p13-14                                risk management
                                                                                                                                                  p53-54                                corporate responsibility goal summary


    2. organizational profile
                  2.1 name of the organization.                                                                                                     p55                                 corporate information
                  2.2 primary brands, products, and/or services.                                                                                    p55                                 corporate information
                      operational structure of the organization, including main divisions,
                  2.3                                                                                                                             p55-57                                corporate information
                      operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures.
                                              s headquarters.
                  2.4 location of organization’                                                                                                     p55                                 corporate information
                      number of countries where the organization operates, and names of
                  2.5 countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the                                               p56                                 corporate information
                      sustainability issues covered in the report.
                                                                                                                                                    p10                                 governance structure in our group
                  2.6 nature of ownership and legal form.
                                                                                                                                                    p55                                 corporate information
                          markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and
                  2.7                                                                                                                             p55-56                                corporate information
                          types of customers/beneficiaries).
                      scale of the reporting organization, including:
                      • number of employees;
                  2.8 • net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations);                             p55                                 corporate information
                      • total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); and
                      • quantity of products or services provided.
                      significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including:
                      • the location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; and
                  2.9                                                                                                                              p3-4                                 editorial policy
                      • changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation,
                        maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations).
           2.10 awards received in the reporting period.                                                                                             p9                                 external corporate evaluation




                                                                                                                                corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 58

                                                                                                           corporate social responsibility report 2013
                                          gri indicator
                                                                                                            pages            corresponding topics
3. report parameters
report profile
  3.1 reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided.                                 p3       editorial policy
  3.2 date of most recent previous report (if any).                                                           p3       editorial policy
  3.3 reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.)                                                                p3       editorial policy
  3.4 contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents.                                   cover page   contact point
report scope and boundary
        process for defining report content, including:
                                                                                                              p3       editorial policy
        • determining materiality;
  3.5                                                                                                        p6-7      csr policy and promotional structure
        • prioritizing topics within the report; and
                                                                                                              p8       dialogue and cooperation with stakeholders
        • identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report.
        boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities,
  3.6                                                                                                        p3-4      editorial policy
        joint ventures, suppliers).
  3.7 state any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report.                                 p3-4      editorial policy
      basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities,
  3.8 outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect                                p3-4      editorial policy
      comparability from period to period and/or between organizations.
                                                                                                                       editorial policy
      data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including                                             each calculation method is
  3.9 assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the                                       p3-4      described in the margin of graph.
      compilation of the indicators and other information in the report.                                               <e.g. p34 : co2 emission and
                                                                                                                       co2 emission unit load rate>
                                                                                                                       major indicators are described
      explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided
                                                                                                                       retroactively to enable the comparison.
      in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/
 3.10                                                                                                                  set of goals compared to base year of
      acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business,
                                                                                                                       fiscal year 2008 especially concerning
      measurement methods).
                                                                                                                       environmental indicators (p34 and others).
        significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope,
 3.11                                                                                                        p3-4      editorial policy
        boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report.
gri content index
 3.12 table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in the report.                            p58-64      gri index table
assurance
      policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report.
      if not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report,                                  there is no information about
 3.13
      explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. also explain the                                 the external assurance.
      relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s).


4. governance, commitments, and engagement
governance
      governance structure of the organization, including committees under the
  4.1 highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting                                p10       governance structure in our group
      strategy or organizational oversight.
        indicate whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if
  4.2                                                                                                        p57       board of directors/organization
                                                  s management and the reasons for this arrangement).
        so, their function within the organization’
        for organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members
  4.3                                                                                                        p10       governance structure in our group
        of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members.
                                                                                                             p10       governance structure in our group
                                                                                                                       timely disclosure, communication
                                                                                                             p12
                                                                                                                       with shareholders and investors
        mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations
  4.4                                                                                                                  labor and management cooperation to
        or direction to the highest governance body.                                                         p26
                                                                                                                       create a worker-friendly workplace
                                                                                                                       organization chart of occupational
                                                                                                           p27-28
                                                                                                                       health and safety management
      linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body,
                                                                                                                       compensation of directors
  4.5 senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the                            p12
                                                                                                                       and corporate auditors
                  s performance (including social and environmental performance).
      organization’
                                                                                                            p10        governance structure in our group
  4.6 processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided.
                                                                                                           p15-18      compliance
                                                                                                             p10       governance structure in our group
      process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members
                                                                                                                       status of internal audits and audits by
  4.7 of the highest governance body for guiding the organization’  s strategy on
                                                                                                             p11       corporate auditors/outside directors
      economic, environmental, and social topics.
                                                                                                                       and outside corporate auditors




                                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 59

                                                                                             corporate social responsibility report 2013
                                     gri indicator
                                                                                              pages             corresponding topics
      internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct,
      and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social
      performance and the status of their implementation.                                       p5        ibiden way
  4.8
      explain the degree to which these:                                                       p6-7       csr policy and promotional structure
      • are applied across the organization in different regions and department/units; and
      • relate to internationally agreed standards.
        procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’ s
        identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance,
  4.9                                                                                          p6-7       csr policy and promotional structure
        including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with
        internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles.
      processes for evaluating the highest governance body’ s own performance,                            assessment by third-party
                                                                                                p9
 4.10 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social                                    organizations and our actions
      performance.                                                                             p10        governance structure in our group
commitments to external initiatives
        explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle
 4.11                                                                                         p13-14      risk management
        is addressed by the organization.
                                                                                               p6-7       csr policy and promotional structure
        externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles,
 4.12                                                                                                     assessment by third-party
        or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses.                  p9
                                                                                                          organizations and our actions
      memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/
      international advocacy organizations in which the organization:
      • has positions in governance bodies;
 4.13                                                                                          p6-7       csr policy and promotional structure
      • participates in projects or committees;
      • provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or
      • views membership as strategic.
stakeholder engagement
 4.14 list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization.                                  p6-7       csr policy and promotional structure
 4.15 basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage.               p8        dialogue and cooperation with stakeholders
                                                                                                p8        dialogue and cooperation with stakeholders
                                                                                                          assessment by third-party
                                                                                                p9
                                                                                                          organizations and our actions
                                                                                                          timely disclosure, communication
        approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of                           p12
 4.16                                                                                                     with shareholders and investors
        engagement by type and by stakeholder group.
                                                                                                          labor and management cooperation to
                                                                                               p26
                                                                                                          create a worker-friendly workplace
                                                                                                          organization chart of occupational
                                                                                              p27-28
                                                                                                          health and safety management
                                                                                                p8        dialogue and cooperation with stakeholders
      key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder
                                                                                                          assessment by third-party
 4.17 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics                    p9
                                                                                                          organizations and our actions
      and concerns, including through its reporting.
                                                                                              p53-54      corporate responsibility goal summary


5. management approach and performance indicators
economic performance indicators
                                                                                                p5        challenge ibi-techno 105 plan
        disclosure on management approach
                                                                                               p10        governance structure in our group
        • goals and performance
                                                                                               p55        corporate information
        • policy
                                                                                                          http://www.ibiden.com/ir/
        • additional contextual information                                                    web
                                                                                                          index.html
aspect: economic performance
     direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs,    p46-50      social contribution
 ec1 employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained                p55        corporate information
     earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments.                                         [annual securities report p97-112]
        financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the
 ec2                                                                                                      (published on the cdp website)
        organization’s activities due to climate change.
                                 s defined benefit plan obligations.
 ec3 coverage of the organization’                                                                        [annual securities report p79-80]
 ec4 significant financial assistance received from government.
aspect: market presence
        range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum
 ec5
        wage at significant locations of operation.
        policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at
 ec6                                                                                          p19-20      csr management in the supply chain
        significant locations of operation.
                                                                                                          philosophy for human resource
        procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired                  p21
 ec7                                                                                                      management and promotional structure
        from the local community at locations of significant operation.
                                                                                               p23        development of human resources




                                                                             corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 60

                                                                                                   corporate social responsibility report 2013
                                       gri indicator
                                                                                                    pages           corresponding topics
aspect: indirect economic impacts
       development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided
 ec8                                                                                               p46-50      social contribution
       primarily for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement.
       understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts,
 ec9                                                                                               p39-40      environmental accounting
       including the extent of impacts.


environmental performance indicators
       disclosure on management approach
                                                                                                   p30-45      environmental management
       • goals and performance/ • policy/ • organizational responsibility
                                                                                                   p53-54      corporate responsibility goal summary
       • training and awareness/ • monitoring and follow-up/ • additional contextual information
aspect: materials
                                                                                                                               s material
                                                                                                               the ibiden group’
 en1 materials used by weight or volume.                                                             p41
                                                                                                               balance
                                                                                                     p35       resource circulation
 en2 percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials.                                           the ibiden group’  s material
                                                                                                     p41       balance
aspect: energy
                                                                                                                               s material
                                                                                                               the ibiden group’
 en3 direct energy consumption by primary energy source.                                             p41
                                                                                                               balance
                                                                                                                               s material
                                                                                                               the ibiden group’
 en4 indirect energy consumption by primary source.                                                  p41
                                                                                                               balance
 en5 energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements.                                 p32-34      coping with climate change issues
                                                                                                   p32-34      coping with climate change issues
       initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and
 en6                                                                                                           environmental contribution
       services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives.             p38
                                                                                                               through products
 en7 initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved.                    p32-34      coping with climate change issues
aspect: water
                                                                                                     p35       resource circulation
 en8 total water withdrawal by source.                                                                         the ibiden group’  s material
                                                                                                     p41       balance
 en9 water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water.                                    p35       resource circulation
en10 percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused.                                       p35       resource circulation
aspect: biodiversity
       location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected                          understanding the influence
en11                                                                                                 p37
       areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas.                                     on biodiversity
       description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity
en12
       in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas.
                                                                                                               understanding the influence
en13 habitats protected or restored.                                                                 p37
                                                                                                               on biodiversity
       strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on                                   understanding the influence
en14                                                                                                 p37
       biodiversity.                                                                                           on biodiversity
       number of iucn red list species and national conservation list species
en15
       with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk.
aspect: emissions, effluents, and waste
                                                                                                   p32-34      coping with climate change issues
en16 total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight.                                             the ibiden group’   s material
                                                                                                     p41       balance
                                                                                                                               s material
                                                                                                               the ibiden group’
en17 other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight                                      p41
                                                                                                               balance
en18 initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved.                       p32-34      coping with climate change issues
en19 emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight.                                                        na
                                                                                                                               s material
                                                                                                               the ibiden group’
en20 no, so, and other significant air emissions by type and weight.                                 p41
                                                                                                               balance
                                                                                                                               s material
                                                                                                               the ibiden group’
en21 total water discharge by quality and destination.                                               p41
                                                                                                               balance
                                                                                                                               s material
                                                                                                               the ibiden group’
en22 total weight of waste by type and disposal method.                                              p41
                                                                                                               balance




                                                                                  corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 61

                                                                                                    corporate social responsibility report 2013
                                       gri indicator
                                                                                                     pages            corresponding topics
                                                                                                                environmental data for individual
en23 total number and volume of significant spills.                                                 p42-45
                                                                                                                plants and group companies
     weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed
en24 hazardous under the terms of the basel convention annex i, ii, iii, and viii,                    p36       appropriate chemical control
     and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally.
     identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies
                                                                              s
en25 and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’
     discharges of water and runoff.
aspect: products and services
       initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and                              environmental contribution
en26                                                                                                  p38
       extent of impact mitigation.                                                                             through products
       percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are
en27
       reclaimed by category.
aspect : compliance
                                                                                                                environment and occupational health
                                                                                                      p31
       monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary                                     and safety-related laws and regulations
en28
       sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations.                                     environmental data for individual
                                                                                                      p42
                                                                                                                plants and group companies
aspect : transport
       significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials                                 s material
                                                                                                                the ibiden group’
en29                                                                                                  p41
       used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce.                       balance
aspect : overall
en30 total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type.                           p39-40      environmental accounting


social performance indicators
labor practices and decent work
       disclosure on management approach                                                             p6-7       csr policy and promotional structure
       • goals and performance/ • policy/ • organizational responsibility                           p21-29      human resource management
       • training and awareness/ • monitoring and follow-up/ • additional contextual information    p53-54      corporate responsibility goal summary
aspect: employment
                                                                                                                philosophy for human resource
 la1 total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region.                             p21
                                                                                                                management and promotional structure
                                                                                                                philosophy for human resource
 la2 total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region.                     p21
                                                                                                                management and promotional structure
       benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to                            p24-25      respecting diverse work styles
 la3
       temporary or part-time employees, by major operations.                                        p50        encouraging volunteerism
aspect: labor/management relations
 la4 percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements.
       minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including
 la5
       whether it is specified in collective agreements.
aspect: occupational health and safety
       percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and                   organization chart of occupational
 la6                                                                                                p27-28
       safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs.               health and safety management
       rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and                                  fiscal year 2012: activity guidelines for
 la7                                                                                                p28-29
       number of workrelated fatalities by region.                                                              occupational health and safety and results
     education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in
 la8 place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members                          p29       managing employee health
     regarding serious diseases.
                                                                                                                measures for occupational
                                                                                                    p27-28
                                                                                                                health and safety
 la9 health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions.
                                                                                                                fiscal year 2012: activity guidelines for
                                                                                                    p28-29
                                                                                                                occupational health and safety and results
aspect: training and education
la10 average hours of training per year per employee by employee category.                            p23       development of human resources
     programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued
la11                                                                                                p21-29      human resource management
     employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings.
la12 percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews.          p22-23      equitable evaluation and treatment
aspect: diversity and equal opportunity
       composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according
la13                                                                                                p24-25      respecting diverse work styles
       to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity.
la14 ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category.




                                                                                  corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 62

                                                                                                      corporate social responsibility report 2013
                                          gri indicator
                                                                                                       pages           corresponding topics
human rights
                                                                                                       p6-7       csr policy and promotional structure
          disclosure on management approach                                                           p15-18      compliance
          • goals and performance/ • policy/ • organizational responsibility                          p19-20      csr management in the supply chain
          • training and awareness/ • monitoring and follow-up/ • additional contextual information    p22        respect for human rights
                                                                                                      p53-54      corporate responsibility goal summary
aspect: investment and procurement practices
          percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include
 hr1
          human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening.
          percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone
 hr2                                                                                                  p19-20      csr management in the supply chain
          screening on human rights and actions taken.
     total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning
 hr3 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the                           p15-18      compliance
     percentage of employees trained.
aspect: non-discrimination
 hr4 total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken.                                   p15-18      compliance
aspect: freedom of association and collective bargaining
     operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association                      p15-18      compliance
 hr5 and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to                       p19-20      csr management in the supply chain
     support these rights.                                                                             p22        respect for human rights
aspect: child labor
                                                                                                      p15-18      compliance
          operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor,
 hr6                                                                                                  p19-20      csr management in the supply chain
          and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor.
                                                                                                       p22        respect for human rights
aspect: forced and compulsory labor
     operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or                      p15-18      compliance
 hr7 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced                        p19-20      csr management in the supply chain
     or compulsory labor.                                                                              p22        respect for human rights
aspect: security practices
                                                                                                      p15-18      compliance
                                                                      s policies or
          percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’
 hr8                                                                                                  p19-20      csr management in the supply chain
          procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations.
                                                                                                       p22        respect for human rights
aspect: indigenous rights
          total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous
 hr9                                                                                                              na
          people and actions taken.


society
                                                                                                       p6-7       csr policy and promotional structure
                                                                                                      p13-14      risk management
          disclosure on management approach
                                                                                                      p15-18      compliance
          • goals and performance/ • policy/ • organizational responsibility
                                                                                                      p19-20      csr management in the supply chain
          • training and awareness/ • monitoring and follow-up/ • additional contextual information
                                                                                                      p46-50      social contribution
                                                                                                      p53-54      corporate responsibility goal summary
aspect: community
     nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess
 so1 and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering,                         p46-50      social contribution
     operating, and exiting.
aspect: corruption
          percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related                    p13-14      risk management
 so2
          to corruption.                                                                              p19-20      csr management in the supply chain
                                                         s anti-corruption policies
          percentage of employees trained in organization’
 so3                                                                                                  p15-18      compliance
          and procedures.
 so4 actions taken in response to incidents of corruption.                                            p15-18      compliance
aspect : public policy
          public policy positions and participation in public policy development and
 so5
          lobbying.
          total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians,
 so6
          and related institutions by country.




                                                                                     corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 63

                                                                                                   corporate social responsibility report 2013
                                       gri indicator
                                                                                                    pages            corresponding topics
aspect: anti-competitive behavior
       total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and
 so7                                                                                               p15-18      compliance
       monopoly practices and their outcomes.
aspect: compliance
       monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for
 so8                                                                                               p15-18      compliance
       noncompliance with laws and regulations.
product responsibility
       disclosure on management approach                                                                       quality management that
                                                                                                   p51-52
       • goals and performance/ • policy/ • organizational responsibility                                      supports customers-first values
       • training and awareness/ • monitoring and follow-up/ • additional contextual information   p53-54      corporate responsibility goal summary
aspect: customer health and safety
                                                                                                               environmental contribution
     life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and                            p38
                                                                                                               through products
 pr1 services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant
                                                                                                               quality management that
     products and services categories subject to such procedures.                                  p51-52
                                                                                                               supports customers-first values
     total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and                              p15-18      compliance
 pr2 voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and                                      environment and occupational health
     services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes.                                          p31       and safety-related laws and regulations
aspect : product and service labeling
     type of product and service information required by procedures,
 pr3 and percentage of significant products and services subject to such
     information requirements.
     total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and
 pr4 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling,
     by type of outcomes.
       practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys                                quality management that
 pr5                                                                                               p51-52
       measuring customer satisfaction.                                                                        supports customers-first values
aspect : marketing communications
     programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related
 pr6 to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and
     sponsorship.
     total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and
 pr7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including
     advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes.
aspect : customer privacy
       total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer
 pr8                                                                                               p15-18      compliance
       privacy and losses of customer data.
aspect: compliance
       monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and
 pr9                                                                                               p15-18      compliance
       regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services.




                                                                                  corporate social responsibility report2013, ibiden co., ltd. 64

                                               www.ibiden.com
                                                    contact point

                                                csr promotion division
                                              2-1, kanda-cho, ogaki city,
                                                 gifu 503-8604, japan
                                                tel. +81 584 81-3147
                                                fax. +81 584 81-2395




please use the survey from always available on our web site to tell us what you think.
