 corporate social responsibility
         report 2014




53889312609.indd   1               2014/09/29   18:29:30

    con tents

    top message                                      ……………………………………………………………………………… 2


              the ibiden group’s csr management ……………………………………………………………………………… 3
                       ibiden way／challenge ibi-techno 105 plan                                              ………          3
                       csr policy and promotional structure                                                  ………          4
                       dialogue and cooperation with stakeholders                                            ………          6
                       external corporate evaluation／assessment by third-party organizations and our actions ………          7
              internal control                    ……………………………………………………………………………… 8
                       governance structure in our group                                ……… 8
                       status of internal audits and audits by corporate auditors／
                       outside directors and outside corporate auditors                 ……… 9
                       compensation of directors and corporate auditors／
                       timely disclosure, communication with shareholders and investors ……… 10
                       risk management                                                  ……… 11
                       compliance                                                       ……… 13
                       csr management in the supply chain                               ……… 17
              human resource management ……………………………………………………………………………… 19
                       philosophy for human resource management and promotional structure………                              19
                       respect for human rights                                                             ………           20
                       equitable evaluation and treatment／development of human resources………                               21
                       respecting diverse work styles                                                       ………           22
                       labor and management cooperation to create a worker-friendly workplace／
                       thoroughgoing compliance with labor-related laws                                     ………           24
                       measures for occupational health and safety／
                       organization chart of occupational health and safety management                      ………           25
                       fiscal year 2013: activity guidelines for occupational health and safety and results ………           26
                       managing employee health                                                             ………           28
              environmental management            ……………………………………………………………………………… 29
                       environmental policy／
                       organization chart of environmental management                              ……… 29
                       management system certification status                                      ……… 30
                       environment and occupational health and safety-related laws and regulations ……… 31
                       guidelines for environmental activities／coping with climate change issues………    32
                       resource circulation                                                        ……… 35
                       appropriate chemical control                                                ……… 36
                       understanding the influence on biodiversity                                 ……… 37
                       environmental contribution through products                                 ……… 38
                       environmental data                                                          ……… 39
                                 environmental accounting                                          ……… 39
                                 the ibiden group’s material balance (input and output)            ……… 41
                                 environmental data for individual plants and group companies ………      42
              social contribution                 ……………………………………………………………………………… 47
                       philosophy for social contribution and promotional structure ……… 47
                       protecting the global environment                            ……… 48
                       fostering the next generation                                ……… 49
                       contributing to social welfare and local communities         ……… 50
                       disaster relief activities／encouraging volunteerism          ……… 51
              social responsibility for our products ……………………………………………………………………………… 52
                       quality management that supports customers-first values                               ………          52
              corporate responsibility goal summary ……………………………………………………………………………… 54
              corporate information                 ……………………………………………………………………………… 56
              editorial policy                      ……………………………………………………………………………… 59
              gri index table                       ……………………………………………………………………………… 61


                                                                          corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd.   1



53889312609.indd   1                                                                                                                2014/09/29   18:29:30

    t op m essag e




                                                                            president & ceo



    during the fiscal year under review, the u.s. economy moved on a clear recovery trend and european
    nations began to show signs of finally overcoming prolonged economic stagnation, while economic
    growth lost steam in the emerging economies. given the continued weakness of the yen, the japa-
    nese economy moved on a moderate recovery path, led by export-oriented companies.
        in this environment, the ibiden group launched its medium-term management plan, the “challenge
    ibi-techno 105 plan,” pushed ahead with business structure reforms and carried out a number of distinc-
    tive activities to improve its operations on a worldwide basis and reinforce its revenue base. within the
    framework of the medium-term management plan, and as one of the pillars of its “global csr manage-
    ment,” ibiden has also contributed to society through innovative technologies while addressing global
    issues. it has achieved progress in creating a company whose sustainable growth is in step with society.

    the entire group is working to strengthen its csr management
    in accordance with it’s corporate philosophy, “contribute to the progression of society through inno-
    vative technology,” the ibiden group has long aspired to find creative ways to contribute to social
    prosperity. the entire group must work as one to move forward with csr management, embodying
    the group’s corporate philosophy. in today’s world, we face a number of issues including climate
    change, natural disasters, labor/human rights disputes, and conflicts in various regions. as the ibiden
    group expands its operation globally, it is becoming crucial for us to gain a firm understanding of the
    expectations and demands placed on us when addressing such societal issues and to proceed in ac-
    cordance with international standards.

    by drawing on a range of wisdom, we aim to achieve a balance between business growth and the resolution of social issues
    with the executive officers taking the lead, each and every employee must be aware of the issues as
    the ibiden group moves forward with its csr management in the spirit of teamwork. for instance, as
    the seriousness of global environmental issues becomes increasingly apparent, we are making im-
    provements as a team, such as reducing our energy consumption to cut energy costs and increasing
    the competitiveness of the entire group. such efforts also help society at large. we believe that issues
    can be resolved by making optimal use of our collective ideas and the wisdom of each employee.

    the csr activity management cycle makes possible a sustainable contribution

    to strengthen the csr activities that ibiden group has established thus far, we are developing a
    comprehensive structure, the ibiden management system, which will allow us to integrate all the
    results achieved and manage all activities systematically. the entire group will continue to move
    forward with its csr management, which addresses societal issues as part of our effort to gain
    stakeholders’ trust and attain sustainable growth.


       we will build a trustworthy relationship with our stakeholders.
       we need to initiate and maintain dialogues with our stakeholders and undertake actions by work-
       ing closely with them. the ibiden group continues its proactive disclosure of information
       regarding its financial condition, products and csr and promotes transparent management practic-
       es in an attempt to help stakeholders gain an understanding of how the group is run and decisions
       are made. we hope you will get to know the group’s range of undertakings discussed in this re-
       port, and we welcome your feedback and opinions.


                                                                     corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd.   2



53889312609.indd   2                                                                                                           2014/09/29   18:29:31

    i b i d e n wa y

    the power that has enabled ibiden “to overcome many adversities with all our employees and to continue to
    exist,” and “the wisdom and vitality that have achieved dramatic growth in recent years” - these have persisted
    throughout ibiden’s long history. the systematization that carries this on, transcending borders, is the
    “ibiden way.”

                                                            mission
                                                            it is the fundamental perspective of the existence value and purpose of this
                                                            company.

                                                            we contribute to the progression of society through inno-
                                                            vative technology, with respect for both individuals and
                                                            the global environment.

                                                            spirit
                                                            we share our spirits with all staffs globally. and through accomplishing
                                                            these, “corporate philosophy” will be realized.

                                                            - trust through integrity
                                                            - “wa” teamwork and synergy
                                                            - challenge with passion
                                                            - ibi-techno innovation

    consolidated medium-term management plan
    “ch a l l e ng e i bi -te ch n o 1 0 5 pl a n ”

    we reinforce our capacities for total produc-
                                                                            consolidated medium-term management plan
    tive management, management of technology,
    management of business and management ca-
                                                                           “challenge ibi-techno 105 plan”
    pability in order to establish a robust corporate
    culture resilient to any market changes.                                                   period
                                                                                 fy2013 to fy2017【5 year term】

                                                                                       pillar of the strategy
                                                                1. reconstruct and enhance competitiveness of core operations
                                                                             2. work on the creation of new business
                                                                       3. develop and promote csr management globally



    today’s business environment surrounding ibiden group is extremely volatile, faced by the fierce competition
    between companies seeking global survival.
       in april 2013, we launched our consolidated medium-term management plan, “challenge ibi-techno 105
    plan,” envisioning next 100 years ahead of us. by redefining and strengthening our total productive manage-
    ment, management of technology, management of business and management capability, we will solidify and
    restructure our core business competitiveness. by emphasizing the global implementation of tpm activities,
    we boost our onsite capabilities, while at the same time engaging in the creation of innovative technologies in
    the fields of materials, facilities, and production processes.
       also, based on our core technologies nurtured through the company’s distinguished history, we will set up
    specific goals and engage ourselves in the development of new electronic and ceramic products, as well as
    product development and business implementation in new business areas.
       furthermore, in our effort to successfully run our csr management, we put our emphasis on “human re-
    source management” to nurture people who can thrive globally.
       through the steady implementation of the consolidated medium-term management plan, we will further
    reinforce our revenue base, and everyone in the group will actively take up new challenges to realize a new
    level of growth.




                                                                corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd.          3



53889312609.indd   3                                                                                                             2014/09/29   18:29:32

    cs r p o l i cy and pro m o tio na l s t r u c t u r e

    all csr activities at the ibiden group are based on our mission of “we contribute to the progression of soci-
    ety through innovation technology, with respect for both individuals and the global environment.” we pursue
    activities that enhance the reliability and transparency of management through business so that we will be
    able to build a relationship based on trust with society, as well as strive to flourish as a going concern and
    contribute to social advancement.
        the direction and the ideal of our csr activities are shared throughout the entire group and presented as
    the ibiden group charter of behavior, which takes into account our role as a global corporation and reflects
    requests and demands from our stakeholders including our major customers around the world.

    ibiden group charter of behavior (july. 2011)

                   article 1: compliance with laws, regulations, and ethics
                   we comply with laws, regulations and ethical requirements of the countries and regions where its busi-
                   ness operations are based. we work against corruption in all its forms, and carry out open and fair
                   corporate activities with the intention of becoming a company that enjoys the confidence of the inter-
                   national community. we also protect and properly manage personal and customer data and other
                   types of information.
                   article 2: development together with stakeholders
                   we develop together with our stakeholders, so we enhance the transparency of management and
                   build a trustworthy relationship through communication. we also actively engage in community-based
                   activities that contribute to society as a good corporate citizen.
                   article 3: providing customer delight
                   we provide customer delight, so we have a good understanding of social trends, future needs and de-
                   velop. we provide safe and secure products and services to maximize our customer’s satisfaction by
                   growing ibi-techno.
                   article 4: management based on global standards
                   we manage our group based on global standards. we respect human rights and other international
                   norms of behavior. also, we respect culture and customs in each country or region concerned when
                   carrying out our corporate activity.
                   article 5: harmony with nature
                   we harmonize with nature in all areas of our corporate activities. we manage to develop technologies
                   to achieve good balance between the environment and business, and we provide environmentally
                   friendly products and services by promoting energy and resource conservation activities.
                   article 6: attractive and vibrant company
                   we aim to become an attractive and vibrant company on the basis of fair, equitable and result oriented
                   employee evaluation personnel system. we aim to have a safe and comfortable working environment.
                   we create a rewarding corporate culture that the employee can respect for each diversity, and fully ex-
                   ercise their skills and abilities.


    ibiden group charter of behavior and corporate governance
    we recognize that the entire company including the management must participate in the effort if we are to
    fully realize the spirit of the ibiden group charter of behavior. the management also understands that it
    should lead by example to ensure that these efforts take place thoroughly throughout the company as well as
    among our group companies, and to encourage our suppliers to participate. furthermore, we pay continuous
    attention to the voices of people both inside and outside the company and have put in place an effective cor-
    porate structure. should an incident occur that violates the charter, the management will have in place a
    system to solve problems, which will communicate its position, investigate the cause and implement a preven-
    tion of recurrence. moreover, we will communicate accurately and in a timely manner the information
    regarding the incident including accountability. finally, after authority and responsibility are clarified, severe
    consequences will be imposed.

    framework for csr promotion
    the company has set up csr promotion division in april 2006 as the division responsible for the promotion
    of csr activities.
       we designated a management person in charge of the promotion in each division who performs duties
    such as promoting csr activities and compliance, supervising the implementation of compliance, hosting edu-
    cational sessions and trainings for the members of the division, and reporting of compliance violations within
    the division as well as the improvement of the violation risks. we convene a conference for management per-
    sons responsible for csr promotion two times in fiscal year 2013. during the conference, the participants confirm
    the company-wide promotion items and their progress as well as share anecdotal examples of promotional
    activities at their workplace or within the group companies.
       furthermore, we have designated september as csr month and encourage each and every employee to
    increase his or her awareness of csr by increasing the number of educational activities related to compliance.



                                                                           corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd.   4



53889312609.indd    4                                                                                                                2014/09/29   18:29:32

    managing activities related to the ibiden group charter of behavior
    the ibiden group charter of behavior was established to reflect the international movement as well as re-
    quests of external stakeholders in implementing csr management, in accordance with the company’s
    corporate philosophy, the ibiden way. as an international common understanding, we value and reflect the
    iso26000 guidance, responsibilities required of a company by the un global compact and the code of con-
    duct stipulated by eicc®, the electronics industry association, (though the company is not a member) in the
    charter of behavior as part of the supply chain. moreover, we also assess and reflect items emphasized by
    domestic initiatives such as the charter of corporate code of the japan business federation (keidanren) the
    company is affiliated with in the charter of behavior.
        in order to develop these ideas into specific activities, we implement activities in three phases (responses
    as the company, individual’s activities and expansion of activities to suppliers) based on global standards and
    requests from and assessment items of outside organizations.
        we, as a company, determine what we are supposed to be in the medium term, translate what to imple-
    ment into policies of each division and promote appropriate activities. by translating what to implement into
    policies of each division, we manage the progress of activities related to the ibiden group charter of behav-
    ior as operations of such division.

                       charter of behavior             medium-term targets                         action plans
                       (goals for the group)


    for each employee, we have created the “ibiden standards for employee behavior” as a standard for specific
    activities under the group charter of behavior. the standards were also established by taking global stan-
    dards into account such as the code of conduct or request items of the industry, and ibiden group
    companies also have their unique standards for employee behavior in accordance with the ibiden standards
    for employee behavior (see “compliance” on page 13).
        to suppliers, we have created the “ibiden group supplier csr guidelines” and give guidance through ex-
    planation of the standards, investigation of actual conditions and audits (see “csr management in the supply
    chain” on page 17).
        in fiscal year 2014, we will establish standards we need to work on based on the approach of global stan-
    dards and request items, as standards for csr management and integrate the management of such standards
    into the management system of ibiden as a whole. we aim to start trial management in fiscal year 2014 and
    create a framework to manage activities in the ibiden management system in fiscal year 2015 and after.

    csr policy
    the group strives to contribute to social advancement while achieving continuing existence by implementing
    csr management. the vision of the group’s csr management has been developed along four themes in our
    mid-term plan based on corporate philosophy and charter of behavior: internal control, human resource man-
    agement, environment management, and social contribution. we believe that working from these four
    viewpoints will allow us to build on our relationship based on trust with our stakeholders by further expand-
    ing activities in a wide range of areas.

      ＜csr policy＞
      we aim to enhance our corporate value
      ・by raising awareness of the need for ibiden to act responsibly and honestly in the interest of sustainable
       operations
      ・by fulfilling our responsibilities in a well-balanced manner from an economic, environmental and social
       standpoint
      ・by working in partnership with all of our stakeholders.

                                                               employees

                                         customers                                       suppliers
                                                          human resource
                                                           management


                            shareholders/                  internal control                          local
                              investors                                                           communities
                                               environmental              social
                                                management              contribution




                                                        global environment              <conceptual diagram of csr management>

    based on our four themes of internal control (such as corporate governance, compliance and risk manage-
    ment), human resource management, environmental management, and social contribution, we will implement
    activities in a wide range of areas and build a trustworthy relationship with all stakeholders.
                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd.   5



53889312609.indd   5                                                                                                             2014/09/29   18:29:32

    dia l og ue and c o o p era tio n wit h s t a k e h o l d e r s

    since its operations began as a hydroelectric power generation business that provided electricity to the com-
    munity, the ibiden group has won the support of all residents in the community as well as many other
    people.
       we continue to look for opportunities to communicate with our stakeholders to thoroughly understand the
    expectations and demands that they have concerning the group.
       in fiscal year 2013, we continued to maintain communication with all related parties in order to deepen a
    shared understanding of global social responsibilities at home and abroad. we have shared issues with em-
    ployees through education and training while deepening our understanding of what an industry association is
    required to comply with and what issues we need to work on in communication with customers. we have
    also shared and worked on what is required of suppliers throughout the entire supply chain through face-to-
    face meetings, surveys on measures taken and audits.
       we believe it is important for building a trustworthy relationship with all stakeholders and sustainable de-
    velopment to continue working on expectations and request items obtained as a result of communication
    throughout the supply chain led by the company.

    ■example of communication (as of march 31, 2014)
                          stakeholders                                        example of communication                 responsible division
      employees            employees at our 39 group companies              labor and management                       human resources
                           (consolidated), both in japan and abroad,        committee, training and                    division
                           number 14,122. grounded in the basic             development, appraisal interview           environment &
                           principle of respect for individuals, we value   health and safety committee,               safety division
                           the creativity and varied characteristics of     compliance counter                         csr promotion
                           each and every employee.                                                                    division
      customers            we contribute to the lives of our                improvement of customer                    business
                           customers, grounded in innovation                satisfaction, provision of csr             administration
                           technology, by offering diverse,                 information                                division
                           high quality products, from                      code of conduct audit                      (each operation)
                           electronic components to ceramic                                                            csr promotion
                           and building materials                                                                      division
      suppliers            the ibiden group operates                        purchasing policy briefings, safety        global purchasing
                           businesses in japan and abroad,                  training session for suppliers,            division
                           and conducts procurement from                    implementation of csr survey and           environment &
                           numerous suppliers                               audit, compliance counter for              safety division
                                                                            supplier                                   csr promotion
                                                                                                                       division
      local communities    ibiden has major facilities in 18                risk communication, regular                each plant
                           countries around the world, and                  exchanges with community                   general affairs
                           conducts global corporate citizen                associations, social contribution          division
                           activities that suit the culture and             activities
                           climate of each country and region.

      shareholders /       ibiden has about 150 million                     general shareholders’ meeting,             general affairs
      investors            issued shares, with a total of                   investor briefings, response to            division
                           37,609 shareholders (as of the end               research and evaluation                    office of the
                           of march 2014)                                   organizations                              president
                                                                                                                       csr promotion
                                                                                                                       division


    risk communication at plant
    we hold events to communicate risks annually by inviting representatives of regional residents to our plants.
    persons in charge at the plants first explain the purpose of the communication and introduce our business,
    and then describe activities within our plants mainly from the perspectives of measures to cope with environ-
    ment pollution and safety management. through an actual tour of the plants, we have them gain a deeper
    understanding and stimulate active discussion about the management of wastes and the status of use and
    management method of chemical substances.
       we will continue to deepen mutual understanding and build a better relationship with regional community
    through having direct communications within plants and disclosing information.




                                                                             corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd.   6



53889312609.indd   6                                                                                                                   2014/09/29   18:29:32

    e xternal c o r po r ate ev a lua tio n

    in recent years, attention has increasingly focused on socially responsible investment (sri), referring to corpo-
    rate investment from a social perspective, taking into account considerations such as the environment and
    social contribution rather than concentrating exclusively on profitability and other corporate and financial tar-
    gets.
        having been evaluated by an sri evaluation organization, we have been selected for inclusion in the dow
    jones sustainability indices (djsi asia pacific) and morningstar’s sri index (as of june 2014).




    assessm ent by thir d -p a r ty o r g a n iz a t io n s a n d o u r ac t i o n s

    corporate evaluation by external organizations
    the company conducts gap analyses between “what it should be” and the results of external corporate evalu-
    ations. our csr promotion division analyzes the data obtained from important survey questions and discusses
    the course of action with departments involved to identify elements that are lacking at the company. further-
    more, if it is possible to improve upon these elements during the next fiscal year, each department develops
    strategies within its action policy.
       for fiscal year 2013, our focus was on the improvement of efforts for life cycle assessment in the area of
    the environment. engaged in deep discussion about the definition and meaning of measures to the parts
    where indicators are insufficient, including the status of response to water risk, we promoted the efforts.

    csr-related audits
    we respond to csr-related audits conducted by third-party organizations based on customer requirement.
        the results of audits similarly undergo the process of gap analysis to establish the difference between the
    global industry-required standards and the company’s current efforts, and to identify issues that need to be
    addressed. we take to heart the suggested issues put forward during these audits and strive to improve upon
    them by analyzing the causes and implementing corrective actions as well as preventative measures. further-
    more, we are working toward creating a system that meets the global standards by improving upon these
    issues.
        in fiscal year 2013, we reviewed the framework of workers’ human rights and underwent an external csr
    audit. unfortunately, findings similar to past events were reported in terms of health and safety, but there
    were no significant findings for workers’ human rights. we are also swiftly working to improve other observed
    items, the environment and industrial health and safety.
        as for similar findings, we ensure that the system and procedures are thoroughly managed and make
    checks on a regular basis to prevent recurrence. we are also improving the awareness of managers so that
    they share issues, take responsibility for working on them and maintain improved situations. furthermore,
    sites other than those where any incident occurred also share issues to check problems the entire group is
    faced with.
        from now on, we will create a system to prevent recurrence by absorbing the know-how of external audit-
    ing organizations and enhancing the function where managers and internal auditors check the system’s
    management. we also voluntarily undertake an external csr audit, sort out problems from the perspective of
    customers and industry associations and implement activities to resolve such problems to enhance the reli-
    ability of our csr activities.




                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd.   7



53889312609.indd   7                                                                                                       2014/09/29   18:29:32

    our group defines corporate governance as a critical management issue for increasing corporate value
    through sustainable growth. the entire group is actively committed to improving corporate governance.

    by strengthening our internal control functions through proactively developing “activities for advancing compli-
    ance and risk management” with an involvement of all officers and employees and by augmenting and
    strengthening the management-oversight functions of our board of directors and the audit functions of our au-
    ditors, we are creating a transparent corporate control system that can accommodate the reliance of our
    shareholders and society.

      governance structure in our group

    general description of governance structure
    with regard to the operation of the board of directors, we have asked two outside directors to join and pro-
    vide their management advice in an effort to realize fair, highly transparent management. for the designation
    and determination of remuneration, we also have in place fair, transparent procedures. ibiden clarifies the di-
    rectors’ management responsibility and strives to strengthen the management structure. the maximum
    number of directors is set at 18 (13 as of june 30, 2014), and a director’s term of office is set at one year to
    respond to changes in the business environment and build an optimum, flexible management structure. fur-
    thermore, ibiden has introduced an executive officer system to facilitate speedy management decision-making
    and further acceleration of business operations.
       ibiden has elected to operate as a company with corporate auditors and a board of corporate auditors.
    as for the decision-making by the board of directors and business operations by the president and ceo, they
    are audited by the board of auditors, and each auditor has the ability to take strict action.

    in addition to the corporate governance structure described above, the company has set up a management
    conference to fortify its structure. composed of parties responsible for management decisions and business
    execution such as representative directors, directors, executive officers and managing officers, in addition to
    full-time corporate auditors, the management conference is authorized to conduct advance deliberations on
    matters to be placed on the agenda of the board of directors and is authorized, under the company’s rules
    on authorizations, to approve such items. it also deliberates and makes decisions on important matters includ-
    ing management of the progress made in yearly and monthly budgets and managerial issues.

    to ensure the appropriateness and fairness of business conducted by the ibiden group companies, ibiden
    has suggested to the heads of the group companies a structure designed to advance compliance and risk
    management similar to its own. at group information exchange meetings, it keeps abreast of their actions ad-
    vocating compliance and risk management, their status of management and progress made to meet the
    targets mapped out in their plans for profit generation.

    diagram of corporate governance system
                                                                                                                 shareholders’ meeting


                                appointment/removal                                                                       appointment/removal                                                      appointment/removal

                                                                                                                                                          report
                                                                                                                                                   report/cooperation
           board of directors directors                                                                   board of corporate auditors                                                       accounting auditors
                                                                                                                audit auditors                  approval of appointment/
                                                                audit
            supervision                                                                                                                         removal and interpretation of
                                                                                                 report                          direction      proper audit




                                  discuss questions/            audit
                                  report
                                                            order                                                  risk management company-wide                                 compliance company-wide
             management conference
                                                                        csr promotion division




                                                                                                                        promotional committee                                     promotional committee
      representative directors (executive oﬃcer)       report
         standing auditors (executive oﬃcer)
                  executive oﬃcers
                                                                                                                       executive oﬃcer in charge of                       executive oﬃcer in charge of compliance
                                                                                                                            risk management
            supervision                                                                                         (managing oﬃcer in charge of csr promotion)             (managing oﬃcer in charge of csr promotion)
                                  discuss
                                  questions/
                                  report

                                                                                                                          departments in charge of
      president & ceo (direct management)                                                                                  each risk management                                     compliance counter
        executive oﬃcer of each business
          (division of executive authority)

                                                                                                                                                                                  compliance committee
                                                                                                                                                                                  reward and disciplinary committee*
                                                            report
                                                                                                                                                                                  information security committee
                                                                                                                                                                                  security and trade management committee
                                                                                                                                                                                  insider trade controlling framework
                                                                                                                                                                                  disclosure committee



     execution of operation/
                  supervision                                   audit                                audit        order                                                   order                                         audit

                                                                each business and function department ・each company in the group

                                                                                                                                                                     *established on an ad hoc basis when related issues arise

                                                                                                                                    corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd.                                    8



53889312609.indd     8                                                                                                                                                                                                          2014/09/29   18:29:32

    reasons for establishing the corporate governance structure
    the ibiden group’s corporate governance is conducted effectively and efficiently under the current corporate
    auditor system. given the business size and organizational structure of the group, the company believes that
    the current structure is best suited to the group in terms of achieving the independence of auditing work and
    the efficiency of corporate governance.

    current status of the internal control system and risk management structure
    based on the belief that corporate governance is a crucial management issue, the group’s internal control sys-
    tem calls for proactive implementation of measures across the group aimed at advancing compliance and risk
    management and further augmentation of monitoring functions.
        the status of actions and their development are reported regularly by executive officers in charge of com-
    pliance and risk management promotion to the board of directors and the management conference, and such
    actions are monitored and reviewed from time to time to make the compliance and risk management struc-
    ture fairer, stronger and more appropriate.


      status of internal audits and audits by corporate auditors

    the company has five corporate auditors, three of whom are outside corporate auditors with no conflict of in-
    terests with the company. two of the five corporate auditors of the company are persons who have
    substantial knowledge of finance and accounting either through long service in the company’s finance or ac-
    counting division or through obtaining professional qualifications such as certificates to practice tax
    accounting.
       corporate auditors participate in major meetings including those of the board of directors and the man-
    agement conference to audit the business executed by the directors. in addition, fulltime corporate auditors
    work in cooperation with the csr promotion division audit group, which is the internal auditing organ of the
    company, and accounting auditors to perform audits on ibiden and its group companies as required by law
    and other rules.
       executive officers and others submit reports at the request of the corporate auditors in compliance with
    the rules of the board of corporate auditors and the corporate auditors’ auditing rules set forth by the
    board of corporate auditors. the company has also created an audit group (comprising six members) in csr
    promotion division, which is responsible for executing internal audits. the csr promotion division also reports
    the results of the internal audits to the corporate auditors to ensure greater effectiveness of the audit struc-
    ture of the group.



      outside directors and outside corporate auditors

    as stated in the preceding section, the company has a governance structure that includes two outside direc-
    tors and three outside corporate auditors. the company anticipates their contribution to proper and fair
    corporate governance and their valuable advice concerning the employee’s code of conduct. although
    ibiden has no standard or policy of its own with respect to the requirements to ensure the independence of
    outside directors and outside corporate auditors, when electing any of its outside directors or outside corpo-
    rate auditors, ibiden makes sure that he or she meets the requirements of being independent and of being
    unlikely to have any conflict of interest with the general shareholders of ibiden.
        shozo saito, who serves as ibiden’s outside director, is standing counsel of toshiba corporation. no spe-
    cial relationship exists between the said company and ibiden. chiaki yamaguchi, who serves as ibiden’s
    outside director, is executive vice president of toyota industries corporation. no special relationship exists
    between the said company and ibiden.
        tadao kuribayashi, honorary professor at keio university, serves as outside corporate auditor. no special
    relationship exists between the said university and ibiden. the outside corporate auditor, yasuhiro kumagai,
    is representative partner of kumagai jimusho & co. and outside auditor of toc co., ltd. no special relation-
    ship exists between the said companies and ibiden. the outside corporate auditor, shigenori shiota, is
    partner of tanabe & partners. no special relationship exists between the said company and ibiden.
        at ibiden’s board of directors meetings, outside directors express opinions based on their wealth of man-
    agerial experiences and provide important advice to advance the ibiden group’s governance. outside
    corporate auditors express their opinions based on their academic experiences or professional expertise in
    taxation and financial matters at the board of directors and the board of corporate auditors meetings and
    provide fair and objective advice to the company’s directors. the company believes that the aforementioned
    outside directors and the outside corporate auditors, who have demonstrated their independence, have suc-
    cessfully undertaken their responsibilities expected of them by the company.



                                                                corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd.   9



53889312609.indd   9                                                                                                      2014/09/29   18:29:32

      compensation of directors and corporate auditors (fiscal year 2013)

    total remuneration of directors and corporate auditors by classification, total remuneration by type, and num-
    ber of directors and corporate auditors receiving remuneration are as below.
                                      all directors             external directors only                                all auditors       external auditors only
           classification     number of recipients amount paid number of recipients amount paid number of recipients amount paid number of recipients amount paid
                                (persons) (millions of yen) (persons) (millions of yen) (persons) (millions of yen) (persons) (millions of yen)
       basic remuneration          18              408               3               17                    6                      85         3            23
              bonuses              11              153                -               -                      -                        -      -             -
                   total                           561                               17                                           85                      23
    1. the resolution setting the upper limit of remuneration for the directors at not more than 45 million yen per month was approved at the
       154th general shareholders’ meeting held on june 22, 2007. of the total, the amount for outside director’s accounts for 3 million yen or
       less, with the remaining 42 million yen or less paid to the other directors. compensation under stock option plans is set separately. salary
       for directors as company employees is also excluded from the figures.
    2．in addition to the remuneration mentioned above in 1, at the 158th general shareholders’ meeting held on june 22, 2011, the resolution
       was approved stipulating that directors, excluding the outside directors, are to receive as bonus equal to 0.5% of the consolidated net in-
       come for the fiscal year as well as 1.6% of the total amount of annual dividends for the applicable fiscal year. however, the maximum limit
       was also set at not more than ¥500 million by the resolution with amounts less than ¥1 million being rounded down.
    3．the above bonuses for directors totaling ¥153 million were approved at the board of directors’ meeting held on may 16, 2014.
    4．in addition to the amount paid mentioned above, ¥0 million has been paid to the one director of the company who concurrently serve as
       the liquidator of the company’s subsidiary under liquidation as basic remuneration during the current period.
    5．the maximum limit of remuneration for corporate auditors was approved at not more than ¥9 million per month at the 159th general share-
       holders’ meeting held on june 20, 2012.




      timely disclosure, communication with shareholders and investors

    relationships with stakeholders and timely disclosure
    aware of its mission to increase corporate value and meet shareholder expectations, the group understands
    that it must fulfill its responsibilities with respect to employees, local residents, local communities, suppliers,
    investors, and other non-shareholding stakeholders. for this reason, we have instituted the disclosure regula-
    tions to facilitate proper assessments of our group. our aim is to help stakeholders understand the group
    and to win their broad consent to reconciling their interests of different stakeholder groups. with the decision
    of the disclosure committee, consisting chiefly of the president and the information disclosure officer, man-
    agement information is disclosed in a fair, timely, and appropriate manner.

    communication with shareholders and investors
    the company issued approximately 150 million shares and had about 37,000 shareholders as of the end of
    march 2014. we held an ordinary general meeting of shareholders in the multi-purpose hall in the ibiden head-
    quarters building on june 2 0, 2 0 1 4. we have been focusing on establishing a more open environment by
    adopting the voting rights exercise platform for shareholders who are unable to attend the meeting since fiscal
    year 2006. we endeavor to enhance information by attaching the details of the business report to the notice of
    ordinary general meeting of shareholders, starting from fiscal year 2011, and providing them to shareholders via
    shareholder information.
       in addition, we hold periodic briefings for analysts and institutional investors after the announcement of busi-
    ness results for the full year and those for an interim term, and release materials for the briefings on our website.
    furthermore, we take part in various events as briefings for individual investors, thus providing them with oppor-
    tunities to invest in shares of the company. (please refer to disclosure of financial information on page 56.)

    policy concerning the decision on the distribution of retained earnings
    our fundamental policy on distribution of profits to shareholders is to continue stable dividend payments by
    establishing a stable management base in the long term and
                                                                                      dividend      dividend payout ratio
    improving performance, taking into account, in a comprehen-
    sive manner, management indicators such as the consolidated             80                     187.9              200
    financial results, etc., of the group, in addition to non-consoli-      70                40.3
    dated financial results, dividend payout ratio and roe.                    37.0                                   40
                                                                                                                                                                dividend payout ratio (%)




                                                                            60
        based on this policy, our target dividend payout ratio for the               29.2
                                                                            50
                                                                                                      dividend (yen)




    medium and long term is 30%.                                                                                      30
                                                                                                             23.7
                                                                            40
        as for retained earnings, we strategically invest in research                 40
                                                                                                                      20
    and development and manufacturing facilities to expand business-        30
                                                                                30             30   30        30
    es for the medium and long term for the purpose of increasing           20
                                                                                                                      10
    the corporate value and reinforcing long-term competitiveness.          10
    we also acquire treasury stock while considering the financial           0                                        0
    conditions as part of the distribution of profits to shareholders.         2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (fy)
                                                                                                    dividend and dividend payout ratio per share (ibiden)

                                                                                          corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 10




53889312609.indd    10                                                                                                                                         2014/09/29                   18:29:32

      risk management

    in expanding businesses globally, risks surrounding business management are complex and diverse, and it is
    essential for corporate activities that we appropriately deal with such risks. we are required to sort out po-
    tential risks such as the occurrence of a large-scale natural disaster, prevent and minimize them and
    appropriately handle them even when such risks become apparent.

    basic approach
    the ibiden group enables business continuity by analyzing various risks surrounding management, accurately
    handling losses of business resources that have a great negative impact on the ease of our business opera-
    tions, ensuring the safety of our shareholders, customers and officers, and reducing and preventing losses of
    business resources.

    action plan
    1. we devote efforts to maintaining the health and safety of employees and suppliers and to conserving op-
       erating resources.
    2. we conduct ourselves so as not to impinge upon the safety, health, or profits of our shareholders, custom-
       ers, and local and international society.
    3. in cases where risk is manifested, we work to achieve prompt response and recovery through responsible
       action.
    4. we reflect social demands related to risk in our risk management.
    5. we provide required information in order to avoid or reduce possible damage caused by misunderstand-
       ing and a lack of understanding.

    structure for advancing risk management
    based on the resolution of the board of directors, the group has established risk management regulations to
    create a risk management structure and its management process. we also created the risk management
    company-wide promotional committee, which is tasked with improving risk management. the risk manage-
    ment company-wide promotional committee is responsible for considering and deciding on general risk
    management issues. it also examines and reports the progress of actions to address major risks.
        to execute the policy endorsed by this committee, a risk owner is appointed to carry out activities geared
    to ibiden’s circumstances and business model, as well as with those of its group firms.

                                          risk management company-wide promotional committee
                        (directors, executive oﬃcers, standing auditors, unit managers and manager of audit group)
          function                deliberation and decision making on risk management, etc.

                                                                                                                                  secretariat
                                                                                                                            csr promotion division
                                                                                                                            csr promotion group
               csr promotion division
                    audit group




               business                                                             financial aﬀairs      development and
                                                                                                                                     energy supply
              opportunity               systems risks       legal aﬀairs risks        and funding       intellectual property
                                                                                                                                          risks
                 risks                                                                   risks                   risks

            business sections          information system   legal aﬀairs sections   finance sections    intellectual                 energy control
                                       sections                                                         property sections            sections


                                       human resource
                                                                                    environmental
            overseas risks                and labor          disaster risks                                                              new risks
                                                                                         risks
                                            risks
                                                            environment &
            overseas enterprises and   human resources      safety and general      environment &                                    related sections
            general aﬀair sections     sections             aﬀairs sections         safety sections




                                   business sections, functional sections, domestic and overseas group companies
                                                                                                             *a promotion manager appointed at each section


                                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 11




53889312609.indd   11                                                                                                                                         2014/09/29   18:29:32

    advancing risk management
    based on its basic policy and risk management regulations, the group is
    actively developing risk management promotion activities by, for example,
    setting up a department responsible for each risk category, strengthening
    the accountability structure, and offering seminars and workshops geared
    toward officers and employees. the managing officer of the csr promo-
    tion division who also acts as the officer responsible for risk management
    conducts these risk-management promotion activities and reports to the
    risk management company-wide promotional committee (secretariat:
    csr promotion division; csr promotion group) headed by the president
                                                                                       twice a year holding of the risk management
    and ceo.                                                                           companywide promotion committee meeting


    should the internal audit or other mechanisms discover business actions that may create risk of loss, the man-
    aging officer of the csr promotion division is immediately tasked to understand the details of the said risk as
    well as the scope of its potential loss. he then gives instructions on swift and systematic measures and at-
    tempts to prevent the loss from occurring. furthermore, in case of a large-scale accident or a disaster, he
    immediately sets up the headquarters to thoroughly understand the situation, implement first responses, and
    prevent further loss to minimize the loss.


    risk assessment and addressing risks
    the ibiden group undertakes risk management activities so
                                                                             fiscal year 2013 risk management
    that we may continue to reliably conduct our business opera-
                                                                       promotional subcommittee themes (excerpts)
    tions. we regularly detect and assess risks to reduce risks in
    important areas: operational divisions are working on the risks     risks of law violations
    related to strengthening our business competitive edge, while
                                                                        overseas business risks
    functional divisions are addressing the risks bringing serious re-
    percussions to the company’s business.                              health and safety (disasters) risks
       these risk management activities are conducted in conjunc-
                                                                        environment risks
    tion with the policy management of each division.
       in fiscal year 2013, of important themes each functional divi-   information leakage risks
    sion selected based on risks extracted, we chose risks multiple
                                                                        labor risks
    functional divisions deal with in coordination as a theme to dis-
    cuss at a meeting of the risk management promotion committee, which is held monthly, and worked on
    increasing the level of the entire risk management function.


    business continuous plan
    we consider occurrence of a large-scale earthquake in the area where our plants are located as an important
    risk theme and are currently working on measures we need to take in the event of such earthquake. as for
    measures to be taken when disasters such as earthquakes occur, we believe that lifesaving comes first, fol-
    lowed by the early supply of products to customers.
        as for earthquake countermeasures, we formed a working group, created a framework, such as the stan-
    dard for setting up a disaster countermeasures office, and specified the roles of each organization and
    securing the needed personnel/infrastructures/stockpiles. we also review disaster prevention measures and
    the status of emergency response at each plant and fix any problems. in fiscal year 2013, as a disaster drill as-
    suming seismic damage has occurred, we developed manuals to cope with a large-scale earthquake, ran a
    simulation of establishing a disaster countermeasures office and conducted an emergency drill assuming that
    a disaster had occurred at some plants.
        the procurement division implements activities to reduce procurement risks that might arise due to an
    earthquake. specifically, the division checks the current status of the company and our suppliers, considers
    measures to reduce risks in descending order of risk level and promotes activities for business continuity such
    as the establishment of the standards for notification in the event of a disaster as well as implementing proce-
    dures and consideration of a backup plant.
                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 12




53889312609.indd   12                                                                                                       2014/09/29   18:29:32

      compliance

    to comply with laws and regulations and corporate ethics as a company is the most fundamental and import-
    ant thing in undertaking business activities. we may lose our trust or business opportunities due to a material
    scandal or misconduct. honest behavior is required of each officer and employee so that there is no act in vio-
    lation of laws and regulations and ethics that has a significant impact on corporate activities.

    basic policy
    by achieving thoroughgoing commitment to “compliance with domestic and international laws, our articles of
    incorporation, internal regulations and corporate ethics (hereinafter called compliance)” and through open
    and fair corporate activities, we aim to be a company that international society relies on.
        the ibiden group adopted the ibiden standards for employee behavior in december 1998 and the com-
    pliance promotion regulations in august 2003, to facilitate its compliance activities. we continue to increase
    awareness of compliance, adopting a management approach that seeks to earn the trust and respect of all
    stakeholders.

    structure for promoting compliance program
    the group vigorously pursues further development of its compliance promotion activities (streamlining of the
    compliance-related rules and regulations, verifying the status of implementation of compliance activities, pro-
    motion activities, workshops and other functions geared toward the officers and employees) based on our
    basic policy and compliance promotion regulations, the “ibiden standards for employee behavior,” which
    sets the standards for compliance implementation. the executive officer in charge of the csr promotion divi-
    sion as well as compliance implements promotion activities then reports to the compliance company-wide
    promotional committee (secretariat: csr promotion division) chaired by the president and ceo.
        in addition to the formal channel of reporting, the group has established a compliance consultation service
    to facilitate reporting when an officer or employee discovers a violation of compliance. through this service,
    officers and employees may report violations nominally to employees in charge of the compliance consulta-
    tion service or anonymously to outside experts. the latter ensures that the rights of the whistleblower are
    protected by protecting his or her privacy and prohibiting prejudicial treatment. the executive officer in
    charge of compliance strives to educate officers and employees through training to achieve thorough under-
    standing of the compliance consultation system. should an incident related to compliance occur, the
    compliance committee chaired by an executive officer is called and discussions take place on appropriate ac-
    tions to address the situation as well as preventative measures for future incidents. serious incidents such as
    those highly relevant to directors are reported to the board of directors.



                                                                         board of directors


      board of corporate auditor                                                                president & ceo




       compliance company-wide promotional committee chaired by president & ceo                             compliance committee

                ① company-wide promotion                                                         ① implementing and planning a countermeasure
     function




                                                                                     function




                ② overall control                                                                ② deliberation on non-compliance case
                ③ reporting and reviewing                                                        ③ consultation with the reward and disciplinary committee
                                                                                                 ④ consultation with the board of director


           compliance promotional committee at each plant
                     chaired by plant manager                                                     executive oﬃcer in charge of compliance
                ① promotion at a plant level
     function




                ② ediﬁcation and education at a plant
                ③ addressing the improvement in non-compliance case                   compliance consultation service (compliance counter)



                                                                           all employees

                                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 13




53889312609.indd   13                                                                                                                                2014/09/29   18:29:32

    compliance company-wide promotional committee
    in august 2003, the compliance company-wide promotional committee headed by the president was formed
    in an effort to bolster compliance-related awareness across the group. the committee carries out group-wide,
    pro-compliance activities and reviews such undertakings. compliance-related policies and plans decided by
    the committee are communicated to each plant, which in turn rolls out individual actions in accordance with
    them. all group companies both in japan and abroad have set up their own compliance organizations man-
    dated to formulate and conduct individual actions.
        the compliance company-wide promotional committee is held twice a year. in fiscal year 2013, the com-
    mittee was held in may and november. each plant of ibiden confirms the progress in its activity goals and
    plan, established at the beginning of the fiscal year, at the compliance promotional committee at each plant
    held periodically every month. other group companies also review activity goals periodically.

    standards for employee behavior
    the ibiden group has established the “standards for employee behavior”
    based on the ibiden group charter of behavior as the standards for offi-
    cers and employees to ensure compliance. we are revising the standards
    for employee behavior based on the global rules, expectations as well as
    request items from stakeholders and in compliance with laws and regula-
    tions of countries in which we operate. we are also revising them so that
    they are easier to understand for and communicate to employees. revi-
    sions include items each officer and employee is required to abide by in
    terms of workers’ human rights which we need to comply with under
    global standards.
                                                                                   the ibiden standards for employee
        while we distribute a copy of the standards for employee behavior to                    behavior
    all officers and employees, they are also disclosed on our homepage so             (sep. 2011, revised version)
    everyone can access them. the ibiden group companies, including overseas major manufacturing sites, have
    also established standards for employee behavior based on the ibiden standards for employee behavior and
    promote education for compliance. in addition, the booklet we distribute to employees has information on
    the division in charge and where to consult so that employees feel comfortable making an inquiry when they
    have questions.
        the ibiden group is committed to becoming a corporate group and a good corporate citizen that earns
    the trust of the international community, while each officer and employee faithfully implements the standards
    for employee behavior.

    compliance training
    when promoting compliance activities, it is crucial that employee aware-
    ness is continuously maintained at a high level.
        the company runs a broad array of education programs including lev-
    el-specific and workplace-specific training designed to enhance employee
    awareness of the importance of compliance. these programs include
    group discussions on causes of violations of the standards for employee
    behavior and actions taken in response to the violations. they educate
    every single trainee in consciously deciding on the right action in a given
                                                                                          compliance training
    situation.
        we also enable new employees to deepen their understanding of csr and what violation of compliance is
    through discussions based on familiar cases.
        among regions where the group operates, the risk of unintentionally participating in an ethical violation or
    a human rights violation seems especially high in asia. we have therefore provided training on topics such as
    human rights and an ethical code of conduct that takes into account the conditions in each country. we do
    this, for example, by distributing our employee handbook, which includes the standards for employee behav-
    ior at the time of hiring at major asian production companies. as ibiden electronics malaysia sdn. bhd.
    employs many foreign workers, we also provide training on the standards for employee behavior and other
    educational topics in their native language so that they can fully grasp the content of the training. all the em-
    ployees hired during fiscal year 2013 received this training on compliance and csr.
        the entire group will continue to promote further education and training on this important subject.

                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 14




53889312609.indd   14                                                                                                     2014/09/29   18:29:33

    day-to-day compliance training
    raising awareness through repeated training is important to thoroughly implement compliance. we have
    developed a system where employees, ranging from officers, managers, temporary workers and seasonal
    workers, can receive training by job grade on a regular basis and created a program with a clear target and
    purpose.
       in order to deepen the understanding of the details of the standards for employee behavior, we have is-
    sued “case examples for enlightenment (case book)”, which introduces cases of violation of the standards
    and points to remember for compliance, to raise employees’ awareness of compliance. at our plants, employ-
    ees, in small groups, read through the case book during daily meetings, such as morning assembly. moreover,
    we continuously post these case examples on the csr portal site on our intranet and work on improvement
    of employees’ awareness.

    compliance by directors
    when establishing a compliance system, it is crucial that all officers and managers be at the forefront of the
    efforts. in fiscal year 2013, we provided training to officers and managers concerning bribery prevention acts
    in various countries such as foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and uk bribery act (ukba), which we need
    to comply with in expanding businesses globally to reacknowledge the impact and points to remember when
    doing business overseas.
        other than the establishment of the standards for employee behavior, the group has created a strict com-
    pliance system where business entertainment is not allowed without approval from a high-level authority such
    as the president. although the overall risk of being charged with misconduct is not high according to the re-
    sults of assessment of corruption risk at each site, we believe it is important to appropriately develop a
    system to prevent corruption in line with the current conditions of each site. we will further enhance aware-
    ness and strengthen our efforts for fair business practice. the standards for employee behavior include items
    officers need to comply with individually, such as restrictions on competition and transactions with conflicts of
    interest (directors are required to comply with this), in addition to the prevention of misconduct.

    whistleblowing system
    in case of learning of any suspected compliance violation in the
    group, employees are generally required to report it, to consult,
    and to take action using the chain of command between the su-
    perior and the subordinate. we have, however, established a
    compliance consultation service for quickly solving any problem
    that cannot be reported through the usual channels.
                                                                                 compliance consultation service card
       the compliance consultation service is based on protecting the                 distributed to all employees
    rights of whistleblowers, in ways including securing the anonymity
    and privacy of persons who seek consultation and guaranteeing to ban giving them any disadvantageous
    treatment. the service is available not only to employees of ibiden group companies but also to all those
    working for the group. we endeavor to make the service known to everyone by distributing cards which de-
    scribe how to use the service and putting up posters.
       by having several windows for consultation, we have an environment in place where employees feel com-
    fortable consulting within the company, with a law firm and with outside organizations. in addition, we have a
    consultation desk that suppliers can use. this way, we have created an environment where we can collect
    valuable opinions concerning compliance not only internally but also from suppliers. while the consultation
    desk expects those consulting it to indicate their names in reporting to facilitate timely investigation as well as
    protection, anonymous consultation is also acceptable. to discover and deal with problems as early as possi-
    ble, we will continue our educational activities to enhance our reliability by offering a consultation service that
    can be safely used by those who seek consultation.

    response to compliance deviations
    in fiscal year 2013, 49 consultation cases (47 in the previous year) were reported in japan as a whole. of
    those, five cases (10 in the previous year) had the potential to lead to harassment in the relationship between
    a superior and a subordinate. most of them resulted from insufficient communication such as the wording of a
    superior, text of an email or insufficient follow-up, in addition to the low level of the superior’s awareness.
    since the previous year, the number of such cases has been decreasing due to enhanced training for superiors


                                                                  corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 15




53889312609.indd   15                                                                                                      2014/09/29   18:29:33

    on harassment. we work on preventive measures by making superiors aware of their positions within the
    company and providing guidance about wording, etc., so that they can have increased proper communication.
        furthermore, in fiscal year 2013, we observed cases of violation of ethical norms such as receiving exces-
    sive entertainment and gifts from suppliers. this occurred because relevant rules and systems were not
    properly administered, creating a business environment where improper behavior was likely to occur with in-
    sufficient checks by superiors. we are working on establishment and thorough implementation of rules for
    receiving gifts, etc., within the group and are working with suppliers to enhance compliance based on the
    company’s purchase policy, as these cases are also relevant to suppliers. the entire ibiden group works to
    prevent recurrence of such malicious violation of ethical norms.

    self-check of activities and opinion poll
    we conduct a self-check on the status of compliance with the standards for employee behavior and a survey
    on compliance awareness every year, covering all employees including those of domestic group companies.
        in the self-check, employees subject to the self-check, including employees holding managerial posts, diag-
    nose the state of compliance with items of the standards for employee behavior, and compliance-related
    challenges at each group company or plant are clarified through summarizing the results of the diagnosis. any
    problem identified in this process will be addressed through remedial activities at group companies and
    plants in the following fiscal year. we link little understood topics with educational programs. for instance,
    case studies illustrating compliance-related issues that many test-takers failed to answer correctly are pub-
    lished to increase their understanding.
        in the opinion poll, the degree of satisfaction with the workplace and/or superiors and risks of injustice at
    the workplace are evaluated from various aspects, and features by office organization and those by group
    company/plant are analyzed. we monitor changes in employee awareness and reflect the results in the com-
    pliance activities and educational programs of the following fiscal year, as is the case with the self-check.

    management of trade secrets
    information concerning the operation, technologies and management of the company is a valuable asset, and
    for a technology-development-oriented company like us, proper management of such information and preven-
    tion of leakage are important issues and responsibilities. also, leakage of customers’ and suppliers’
    confidential information leads to loss of trust in us from customers and suppliers and can cause damage to
    the company. in order to implement information security management, we have established a framework for
    information security promotion and stipulated fundamental rules to comply with in utilizing and maintaining in-
    formation assets we own such as trade secrets and personal information under the “fundamental rules for
    information security”.
        as specific measures in terms of physical aspects, we keep a record of entering and leaving from the main
    entrance and restrict entering and leaving in the control area in order to oversee the entrance and exit of peo-
    ple as well as products. in the field of it security, we assess it management in terms of management and tool
    (system) and take countermeasures for issues each site is faced with. in fiscal year 2013, we conducted an in-
    ternal audit on it control over major overseas manufacturing companies and are implementing measures to
    increase the level of information security efforts. in fiscal year 2013, there was no incident of information leak-
    age that would significantly affect stakeholders.

    system and achievement of legal compliance
    compliance with laws and regulations is a fundamental requirement for corporate activities, and the latest in-
    formation on laws and regulations is required all the time. at the company, the legal division lists laws and
    regulations that have an impact on the company and monitors the status of revision or abolition thereof. the
    division also notifies divisions in charge of each law and regulation of any revision or promulgation and, when
    any action is required, checks the results of such action.
       in particular, we extract laws and regulations that have a significant impact on the ibiden group as import-
    ant laws and regulations and designate those with especially considerable impact as the “most important laws
    and regulations”. important laws and regulations include those concerning finance, tax matters, it control, la-
    bor and employment, political funds, import and export and others concerning compliance. as for the most
    important laws and regulations, we exercise management and thoroughly implement measures to prevent le-
    gal violation by clarification of compliance rules, training to keep everyone informed, regular review of the
    status of compliance and audits. as a result, in fiscal year 2013, we did not observe any cases of legal viola-
    tion that would have a significant impact on business activities.

                                                                  corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 16




53889312609.indd   16                                                                                                      2014/09/29   18:29:33

      csr management in the supply chain

    to earn the trust of international community while operating business globally, both the group and the entire
    supply chain must responsibly take actions that respond to social demands. although our major businesses
    are positioned in the midstream of the supply chain that provides parts, we believe that promotion of csr ac-
    tivities based on the fundamental policy of the ibiden group with suppliers that supply the group with
    materials, etc., and temporary help agencies as well as contractors that provide personnel and technological
    support to us leads to improvement of the corporate value and sustainable growth of the entire supply chain.


    basic purchasing policy
    1. we comply with laws, regulations and societal norms, and strive to build relationships of trust and mutual
          cooperation with suppliers.
    2. we provide suppliers opportunity at a fair deal.
    3. we continue to fulfill our social responsibilities including human rights and environmental protection
          through purchasing activities.


    ibiden group supplier csr guidelines
    ibiden began disclosing requests to suppliers, based on its basic purchasing policies,
    in fiscal year 2008 and held a briefing session for 100 suppliers in fiscal year 2009,
    confirming the status of their measures. this enabled us to confirm the gap in mea-
    sures among the suppliers and recognize the necessity of management, which has led
    to more specific improvements in the supply chain.
         in fiscal year 2011, ibiden published ibiden group supplier csr guidelines fol-
    lowing the changes in the ibiden group charter of behavior. these guidelines
    provide our suppliers with items desired for the entire supply chain by our customers,
    the industry and the international community as well as the group. the items are di-
    vided into sub-categories according to themes such as labor, health and safety,
    environment protection, ethics and fair business practices. these guidelines also al-                     ibiden group
                                                                                                          supplier csr guidelines
    low us to thoroughly understand the risks from several viewpoints such as worksite
    safety, respect for and dignified treatment of employees, and the consideration given to the environment,
    which in turn allows us to make improvements.


    communication and cooperation with supplier
                                             we also invited our major suppliers after the publication of the guidelines
                                             to our briefing session to share with them, in addition to the group itself,
                                             specific challenges ahead as they play an important supporting role in
                                             matters such as material supply, subcontracting, and procuring of tempo-
                                             rary staff. starting from fiscal year 2011, we began activities to verify and/
                                             or remedy challenges concerning activities at suppliers by ensuring in-
                                             house resources, including fostering of auditors, and conducting
                                             investigations into suppliers as well as making site visits and audits.
       briefing session for csr guidelines      in fiscal year 2013, we carried out an investigation of material suppli-
                                             ers, process contractors, on-site constructors and worker dispatching
    companies based on the csr guidelines in terms of labor, health and safety, environmental conservation and
    ethics and fair trade to confirm the status of efforts at suppliers. through direct communication such as audits
    concerning labor, health and safety, environmental conservation and ethics and fair trade, we work to improve
    suppliers’ understanding of our approach. as a result of the investigation we conducted of suppliers in fiscal
    year 2013, the average rate of compliance of material suppliers was about 95%, up 2% from the previous
    year. also, no case of material violation was found through csr investigations and audit visits. as for other
    findings, we promote activities to improve them by requesting suppliers to submit an improvement plan.


                                                                     corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 17




53889312609.indd   17                                                                                                         2014/09/29   18:29:34

         the ibiden group sites at home and abroad also have similar guidelines, and in the philippines in particu-
    lar, they strengthen management of temporary help agencies as well as contractors working on-site and audit
    the status of management of wages and benefits to promote improvement. in malaysia, they regularly have a
    briefing session concerning the guidelines for suppliers and carry out an investigation. as there are regional
    risks of exploitation of foreign workers by employment agents, they conduct an audit on selection of employ-
    ment agents in dispatching countries in advance and promote establishment of a healthy employment route.
         we will strengthen the competitive edge of csr activities in the supply chain by promoting activities that
    respond to regional risks and keep working on various measures at home and abroad.


    ibiden suppliers’ compliance counter
    the company promotes compliance (rules and regulations, ethical compliance) by establishing the ibiden
    group charter of behavior and the ibiden standards for employee behavior. as part of our continued efforts,
    we also set up a compliance counter for our suppliers in fiscal year 2011 to which suppliers can report any
    compliance problem while dealing with the company. similar to the compliance counter for our internal em-
    ployees, the information will be handled with the utmost care for privacy and the supplier will never suffer
    prejudicial treatment for contacting the counter. in fiscal year 2013, we continued to make the compliance
    counter for business partners known to everyone, but there was no report or consultation. we will promote
    the compliance counter at a briefing session for business partners and pursue efforts for early detection and
    resolution of issues.


    responding to the issue of conflict minerals
    illegal mining of resources in conflict areas (the democratic republic of the congo and its surrounding conflict
    regions) has become a major international issue as it abets human rights violations. the ibiden group is very
    much concerned about the issue of conflict minerals (tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold) and is addressing the
    situation with a sense of social responsibility toward the products it offers.
         our “supplier csr guidelines” clearly state that the suppliers should refrain from illegal mining in conflict
    areas as well as procuring resources that may support human rights violations. the company tries its best to
    avoid contributing to illegal operations and human rights violations by not utilizing minerals illegally mined in
    conflict areas. furthermore, we will conduct reasonable investigations into the mineral supply routes and dis-
    close the findings in good faith.
         since fiscal year 2 0 1 1, we have been sharing with our suppliers the issues involving conflict minerals as
    well as the company’s approach during a briefing session. we also conduct supplier surveys to verify their
    supply routes including the identification of smelters and refiners. furthermore, we conduct sequential visits at
    some of our suppliers’ facilities and other related refining companies to explain the extent of the effort as well
    as verify the supply routes and their traceability (history of materials, parts, and process).
         some of the package substrates and printed-wiring boards that we supply include tin and gold. as a result
    of an investigation of traceability to suppliers conducted in fiscal year 2013, tin was mainly derived from
    smelters in southeast asia, while gold was derived from ores coming from refineries of mainly japanese recy-
    cling manufacturers. these conflict minerals are verified to be derived from smelters that are certified or in the
    process of being certified by the conflict minerals free program of cfsi founded by eicc and gesi or to be
    made from recycling. the company can say that these minerals do not include those derived from smelters
    that use raw materials from mines that play a part in conflicts in the democratic republic of the congo and its
    surrounding conflict zones.
         from now on, while we check the state of usage of conflict minerals and promote using certified smelters
    to suppliers that handle materials included in our products on a regular basis, we will conduct an investigation
    of traceability within the entire group and facilitate establishment of a system that can aggregate the informa-
    tion of the group. we will continuously pay attention to avoid being a party to human rights violations within
    our supply chain by updating information of the supply chain on a regular basis and promoting the use of cer-
    tified smelters.

                                                                   corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 18




53889312609.indd   18                                                                                                       2014/09/29   18:29:34

    in line with the ibiden way, we are committed to respecting the creativity and personality of each and every
    employee and to value a corporate culture that allows its diverse human resources to fully display their
    knowledge and capabilities.


      philosophy for human resource management and promotional structure

    basic approach                                                                                               ○ d i a g ra m o f i p m act i v i ti e s
    employees are the driving force that enables us to run our business                                            management of business                     management capability

    and provide the public with valued service. we aim to create vibrant                                          ● ability to construct a business       <underlying capability for all management>
                                                                                                                  ●
                                                                                                                   ability to become no.1 in customer     ● capability to plan and operate the business

    workplaces in which each individual employee derives a sense of sat-                                              satisfaction                        ● capability to manage


    isfaction and achievement from gaining a thorough understanding of
                                                                                                                  ● ability to generate ongoing profits   ● operating the management system




    the company’s management policies and business strategies, and
    from having a role to play that enables each employee to contribute                                                                           management
                                                                                                                                                   of business
    to both the company and society.
        as one of the measures to achieve this goal, we have also intro-
    duced personnel systems and training programs to enable each                                                                                 management
    employee to display his or her creativity and versatile personality.                                                             management
                                                                                                                                                  capability
                                                                                                                                                                   total
                                                                                                                                         of                     productive
                                                                                                                                     technology                management


    human resource management through ipm activities                                                              management of technology                total productive management
    ipm stands for ibiden profit management, and ipm activities advance         ability to understand market and  ●      san-hozen activity              ●
                                                                                customer needs                             (integrating quality maintenance, autonomous
    and integrate the four ibi-techno capabilities: management of busi-         ability to achieve the development goals
                                                                                                                  ●
                                                                                                                           maintenance, and planned maintenance)
                                                                                                                          ability to launch design qcd    ●

    ness, management of technology, total productive management, and             cross-industrial    integration ability
                                                                                                                  ●
                                                                                                                          qcd competitiveness during stable
                                                                                                                                                          ●
                                                                                 use of experts                            mass production
    management capability. through these activities, we will create our
                                                                                                                  ●




    own unique management techniques and grow sales and profits as
    well as personnel.
       in fiscal year 2013, we have promoted thorough implementation of 5s, tpm and mts* as a method for ipm
    activities. in fiscal year 2014, we will aim to improve the skills of each employee by further promoting the
    method “on-site, in kind and on its own”.
    ＊mts (module target spec): target value for design of each process in order to manufacture good products

    constitution of employees[ibiden]
                                                    fy 2012            fy 2013
       number of employees             persons        3,549             3,554
        managerial positions           persons         313              312
                   officers            persons          17               18
              average age               years          35.5             36.3
           length of service            years          12.4             13.4
      number of workers who
                                       persons          79               81
        left the company

    number of employee                                                                    number of employee
    by business segment [ibiden group]                                                    by business area [ibiden group]
                                                                                                    north america 0.5%

                                      other
                               other 7.0%                                                           europe
     construction             operation                                                             16.3%
     operation 3.3%            9.1%
     housing materials                   fy 2013                                                             fy 2013                   japan
     operation 2.0%                   ibiden group                                                        ibiden group
                                                                                                                                       41.6%
                                       14,122            electronics                                       14,122
                          ceramics       people          operation                                           people
                          operation                        57.1%
                           21.5%                                                                   asia
                                                                                                  41.6%




    *as of 31 march, 2014
    *note: not included are temporary employees (4,559 on average).
    *note:	number of employees by area is calculated based on the regions where bases of group companies are located. about 60% of tempo-
            rary employees are hired in asia.
                                                                                            corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 19




53889312609.indd    19                                                                                                                                                                      2014/09/29    18:29:34

      respect for human rights

    in expanding businesses globally, we sometimes encounter differences in awareness of human rights and in
    support based on laws and regulations for human rights protection. even in such cases, a role to avoid being
    a party to human rights violations and promote/respect human rights is required of us as one of our important
    corporate social responsibilities.

    respect for worker rights
    the ibiden group clearly defines its basic policy to support and respect the protection of human rights, as
    well as to avoid involvement in any violation of human rights. the ibiden standards for employee behavior
    spells out such policy, stipulating that officers and employees respect the basic principles and rights of labor
    and take actions that follow the common sense and rules of society while complying with the employment-re-
    lated laws of each country such as the labor standards law and labor regulations.

    human rights education
    to ensure respect for human rights, the group offers education on fair employment and human rights, particu-
    larly to labor relations managers as well as managers and staff members in charge of recruitment interviews,
    calling their attention to the prevention of human-rights violations. ibiden also distributes the ibiden stan-
    dards for employee behavior and example booklets, a collection of violation examples, to all employees at
    the time of hiring. in our new employee training or education programs offered at the time of hiring, we edu-
    cate our employees to promote the understanding of the ibiden standards for employee behavior, including
    dealing with human rights issues, as well as to ensure that the standards are reflected in their actions.
        we also strive to make our policies, including labor regulations and the standards for employee behavior,
    known to everyone at group companies. in particular, approach to human rights varies in the asian region,
    and we focus on educational activities in major manufacturing companies, driving our policies home to all em-
    ployees at the time of hiring and implementing annual programs.

    assessment
    being a party to human rights violations is an issue not just for the ibiden group. we believe it is important to
    work on the issue of human rights with the entire supply chain and thus cooperate with our direct suppliers in
    dealing with such issues. in ibiden group supplier csr guidelines, we specifically request that labor-related hu-
    man rights be observed, including bans of child labor and forced labor. activities for compliance with the csr
    guidelines are being promoted within the group, and we confirm the state of compliance by suppliers by send-
    ing out periodic questionnaires.
       in fiscal year 2013, we continued to conduct an investigation on major suppliers and as a result, conducted
    an audit on some suppliers and provided guidance to contractors and temporary staffing agencies. this investi-
    gation covers approximately 80% of our suppliers. we stipulate minimum items we require our suppliers to
    comply with, and as a result of the investigation and audit in fiscal year 2013, no serious violation was found
    that might lead to violation of workers’ human rights. the rate of compliance with the guidelines for material
    supplies was about 98% (average conformance rate for compliance items designated by the company). for
    cases that may violate the guidelines, we require them to submit a plan for improvement, working to revise the
    practice as well as a text representation that might lead to discrimination of workers. we also conducted an
    investigation into the group companies in japan and overseas based on the csr guidelines to confirm there
    was no significant problem concerning human rights and provided guidance toward further improvement of un-
    derstanding.
       in malaysia, one of the major manufacturing sites of electronic parts, charging excessive hiring costs for
    workers in countries that dispatch such workers has become a human rights issue. although we have per-
    formed interviews and prior training to prevent such practice, we started carrying out stricter checks of hiring
    practices from fiscal year 2013 and conducted an audit on prior selection of employment agents as well as an
    internal audit based on the industry standard. according to the results of the employee interviews, there were
    no workers in forced labor conditions due to excessive charging. we will continue to maintain compliance by
    regularly conducting an audit on employment agents and an internal audit.



      equitable evaluation and treatment

    policies on equitable evaluation and treatment
    the company evaluates individual results equitably and handles personnel affairs fairly and equitably. under a
    personnel system featuring fair and equitable evaluation, we will create a corporate culture in which each em-
    ployee mutually respects diversity, can demonstrate his or her ability to the maximum and finds his or her job
    rewarding.



                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 20




53889312609.indd   20                                                                                                     2014/09/29   18:29:34

    the company adopts a job-based grade system, which helps revitalize all employees, under which work is
    evaluated into grades based on the volume and importance of job results and job grades are set accordingly.
    furthermore, the relationship between positions available according to qualifications and job grades is clari-
    fied. employees in the same evaluation rank in the same job grade are equitably treated, regardless of
    attributes such as their sex, age and race and nationality. we distribute a labor management guidebook that
    describes these job grades and their evaluation system to all employees.

    fair and equitable employee evaluation
    the company has in place a results-oriented target management assessment system. challenge goals closely
    related to the company’s business results are first established, and the results as well as the process for
    reaching those results are then evaluated fairly and equitably. finally, individual results are directly reflected in
    their remunerations. furthermore, our aim is that better “communication between the superior and the subor-
    dinate” will be encouraged through the process of goal-setting, interim interviews and evaluation interviews.
    the target management system also provides ample opportunities for “professional development” for the sub-
    ordinate.
       based on a job-based grade system based on work and jobs, we realize optimum personnel arrangement
    and create a workplace that satisfies employees. we do so through establishing challenging goals under the
    target management assessment system and implementing fair and equitable evaluation, as well as a remuner-
    ation system that reflects results in remunerations, a human resource development system and various other
    systems.

    for equitable evaluation and treatment
    the human resource and labor section formulates various personnel systems, including the target manage-
    ment assessment system and remuneration system. based on these systems, the company pushes forward
    with proper treatment according to fair and equitable evaluation. to carry out fair and equitable evaluation,
    we periodically implement evaluator training for managers and the other evaluators, and provide training in
    establishing targets to all persons who are given goals. in addition, we strive to make known to all employees
    the target management assessment system and the remuneration system, by distributing a labor management
    guidebook that includes detailed explanations of these systems. for evaluators of employees transferred or
    seconded overseas who cannot participate in the evaluator training, we distribute a dvd for training and ex-
    plain points to remember in a web conference to ensure fair evaluation. the company also implements
    interviews by the human resource division for those who are transferred or seconded and others as one of
    the mechanisms for listening to the opinions of employees. we directly investigate into and remedy issues
    concerning measures of the company, awareness and evaluation about the workplace and superiors, work
    and evaluation/treatment of the employees themselves.



      development of human resources

    development of global human resources
    operating for more than 100 years, the ibiden group aims to put in place a human resource development
    system that strengthens its corporate structure and enables it to achieve consistent progress and growth. to
    this end, we nurture employees who can contribute to strengthening competitiveness and those who are ca-
    pable of cross-cultural management.
        especially for employees who are seconded to overseas locations and those who are visiting or are as-
    signed to overseas locations, we provide cross-cultural programs to improve communication skills with
    overseas staff and strengthen their local response while make efforts to upgrade their practical language skills.
    in addition to english, we began offering language training in korean and other foreign languages. we also fo-
    cus on nurturing the core staff of our overseas entities by inviting them to participate in training programs in
    japan.

    human resource development system of ibiden
    to build a human resource development system that leads to the strengthening of its structure to become a
    company that moves forward consistently and grows, ibiden clarifies the desired candidate profile by qualifi-
    cation. it then roughly classifies the education it implements into: company-wide education; selective
    education; environmental/occupational health and safety education; and professional education. in compa-
    ny-wide education, we nurture employees who can define medium- and long-term visions by understanding
    the original way of doing business of the company as well as csr management and exploiting management
    tools, in addition to global human resources. environmental/occupational and health and safety education is
    aimed at fostering employees who can help to create a pleasant and safe working environment. professional
    education is designed to nurture specialists by occupation who have both improvement skills and motivation
    by clarifying the desired candidate profile, abilities and skills corresponding to qualifications and occupation.

    training records for fiscal year 2013 (ibiden)
    ・total training hours: 49,959 hours/year; training hours per person: 13.4 hours/year/person
                                                                   corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 21




53889312609.indd   21                                                                                                       2014/09/29   18:29:34

    encouraging career development
    we adopt a system that encourages personalized career development. we support career development
    through discussions in an interview with a superior concerning skills an employee wants to improve now and
    in the future and a superior’s expectations and a support policy.



      respecting diverse work styles

    along with the progress in globalization and diversification of values, ibiden strives to realize a working envi-
    ronment and culture that allow a wide variety of employees to demonstrate their unique abilities and find
    their life and work meaningful.

    supporting work life balance
    the company considers it part of its social responsibility to create an environment in which children, our fu-
    ture leaders, can grow up healthy and safe. to this end, we actively encourage work-life balance (harmony
    between work and private life) by, for example, helping our employees to achieve a balance between work
    and child rearing.
        in fiscal year 2013, we were awarded the chief of labor bureau of gifu prefecture award in the equal em-
    ployment promotion section as well as the family-friendly section. in the equal employment promotion
    section, we were recognized for increasing the number of recruited female college graduates (technical posi-
    tions) as well as the rate of female employees (sales positions) as a result of our efforts for positive action. in
    the family-friendly section, the childcare leave system, which is more generous than that designated by law,
    and the interview system for returners were recognized.
        in fiscal year 2013, 27 employees, of which three were men, used the childcare leave system. the average
    number of leave days of male employees was 93. various ways of working are spreading such as being trans-
    ferred overseas after returning to work.
        in the same year, we started the re-employment system of those accompanying overseas transferees, and
    four female employees registered with the system and then resigned from the company to accompany their
    partners overseas. after a few years, employees who gain valuable experience of living overseas are expected
    to bring new values to the company. to create a working environment that allows employees to work posi-
    tively and vigorously, we will review and consider a discretionary labor system and other working
    arrangements, and further encourage employees to take annual paid leave.

    promotion of female advancement
    we started working on promotion of female advancement in fiscal year 2010. we promoted activities with
    the period until fiscal year 2012 as phase i (awareness-raising and introduction), implemented various mea-
    sures to support work-life balance and provided training for improvement.
        as the female employees’ awareness as well as the corporate culture has changed due to training, and we
    have actively hired female employees, the ratio of females on a managerial track has been increasing, up
    about 30% in fiscal year 2013 compared to fiscal year 2007.
        for phase ii, which starts from fiscal year 2013, we will focus on reviewing and establishing measures. we
    will establish our initiatives by developing them into effective activities through a review of measures. in fiscal
    year 2013, we will develop a corporate culture that is sympathetic to the proactive actions of women not
    only by having messages sent from the company but also by listening to firsthand views, including those given
    in interviews with women who are currently playing active parts, and promote activities to make in-house
    awareness come to stay. we will continue to support the proactive actions of female employees through
    “growing corporate culture,” “career development and appointments” and “supporting work-life balance,” so
    that women with abilities and motivation can be active at all stages of their lives.

    ◆three core activity areas

   【growing corporate culture】
    we hold various events and training sessions to raise awareness throughout the company and communicate
    these activities through our company bulletin.

   【career development and appointments】
    we introduce educational programs to further enhance the ability of ambitious women and develop and in-
    troduce ideal role models for our female employees.




                                                                  corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 22




53889312609.indd   22                                                                                                      2014/09/29   18:29:34

   【supporting work-life balance】
    we implement childcare leave, short-term working hours and other programs to support a work-life balance
    so that both men and women can continue to work while they raise children. we introduce these programs
    by issuing a childrearing handbook.


    employment of persons with disabilities
    in order to realize a society where persons with disabilities can live together as members of local communi-
    ties, it is important to encourage their independence through work, and employees with disabilities are
    playing an active role in the company. in japan, the employment rate of persons with disabilities sets forth
    employment obligations, and from april 2013, the mandatory employment rate for private companies was
    raised from 1.8% to 2.0%. the employment rate of persons with disabilities in the company in fiscal year
    2013 was 2.19% (51 employees) (see the graph “results of employment of persons with disabilities” ). we
    will continue to respect the philosophy of normalization and maintain a working environment in which em-
    ployees with disabilities can fully demonstrate their abilities.


    post-retirement reemployment system
    we instituted a post-retirement reemployment system in fiscal 2004 to enable our most experienced employ-
    ees to display their capabilities as part of our valued workforce.

                   （persons）                                             number of employees with disabilities       （%）                                                                  maternity and child-care leave
                                                                                                                                                                         （persons）
                                                                         percentage of employees with disabilities                                                                        nursing care leave
                                                                                                                     2.5
                                                                                                                           (percentage of employees with disabilities)




                                                             70          statutory employment rate                                                                            35                                33
                   (number of employees with disabilities)




                                                                                                           2.19
                                                                                                 2.08
                                                             60   1.98                                                                                                        30
                                                                            1.94                                     2.0                                                                                                   27
                                                                                       1.87
                                                                                                             51
                                                             50         1.8                       47                                                                          25

                                                                   40         40        41                           1.5                                                                    20
                                                             40                                                                                                               20
                                                                                                                                                                                                      17
                                                                                                                                                                                     16
                                                             30                                                                                                               15
                                                                                                                     1.0

                                                             20                                                                                                               10
                                                                                                                     0.5
                                                             10                                                                                                                5
                                                                                                                                                                                                           1         1          1
                                                                                                                                                                                        0      0
                                                              0                                                      0                                                         0
                                                                  2009      2010      2011       2012      2013（fy）                                                                  2009   2010      2011      2012       2013 （fy）

                                                             results of employment of persons with                                                                               track record of the leave programs
                                                                       disabilities [ibiden]                                                                                                  [ibiden]




                                                                                                                                                                            corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 23




53889312609.indd   23                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2014/09/29   18:29:34

      labor and management cooperation to create a worker-friendly workplace

    through a relationship of mutual trust, both the management and workers of ibiden work together to create
    a workplace that is friendly for all employees.
       in fiscal year 2013, in the meeting between the management and employees, we listed specific themes to
    work on together such as thorough and accurate time management, reduction of overwork, promotion of tak-
    ing leave, facilitation of communication, facilitation and consideration of mental and physical health in the
    areas of time management, creation of a workplace that is easy to work in and expansion of the personnel
    system. the central labor council, the labor and management gathering and the labor and management
    committee are held every month to review the status of progress in discussion themes and deliberate on
    ways to improve the working environment so that employees can safely work toward the goals of their work-
    place.

    working hour management
    an increase in workload due to extremely long hours of working is one of the causes of work-related health
    hazards. in an effort to raise employees’ awareness of working-hour management, we have them use the at-
    tendance system to check their data, which is designed to ensure accurate working hours, and promote the
    reduction of overtime work. our goal is to cut the amount of overtime work by boosting operational efficien-
    cy, which can be achieved by making employees aware of the accurate working hours and through better
    communication between superiors and subordinates, allowing them to review and rethink the work process
    and system.
        the company focuses on efforts for working-hour management, including initiatives for promoting the ac-
    quisition of annual paid leave and activities aimed at reducing overtime work. this includes sending a warning
    to workers who are found to possibly violate rules on overtime work by monitoring through the system or to
    their managers. also in fiscal year 2013, mainly our overseas manufacturing sites started working hour man-
    agement of employees transferred overseas. by entering working hours in the working hour management
    system similar to the one in japan, we understand and check working hours in real time and promote activi-
    ties so that employees can work more effectively.

    creating a worker-friendly workplace
    we conducted educational activities such as thorough implementation of the greeting campaign by the man-
    agement and workers to facilitate communication and organization of ideas (establishment of guidelines)
    concerning instructions to subordinates including behavior considered as power harassment for smooth com-
    munication between a superior and a subordinate. to promote mental and physical health, we assessed and
    analyzed the diagnosis of mental health by an industry physician and made recommendations. we also con-
    ducted training and educational activities for managers using case examples of mental health and a follow-up
    interview with transferees. we will aim to provide more in-depth individual training.

    expansion of personnel system
    as global business deployment is accelerating, opportunities to play an active role as specialist personnel
    rather than managers are increasing in the japanese business environment. accordingly, we newly created a
    job grade that handles mid-level employees with a high degree of professionalism to develop an environment
    where such employees can work effectively.

    communication between labor and management
    in the company, management policies, items related to production plans and items concerning hiring policies
    are explained to labor unions, and items that seriously affect employees are deliberated through the central
    labor council, mentioned above. in addition, the company provides opportunities for dialogue at various lev-
    els between the management and workers, including the labor and management committee, which is held at
    each plant, with a view to facilitating a good labor-management relationship and corporate business activities.



      thoroughgoing compliance with labor-related laws

    the ibiden group takes actions in line with common sense and the rules of society while complying with the
    employment-related laws of each country such as the labor standards law and labor regulations. the group
    monitors the state of revision or abolition of laws and regulations that should be observed, and promotes
    compliance with labor-related laws and regulations at its affiliated companies in each country and region.
    also, the human resource and labor sections periodically monitor domestic group companies to verify the
    status of compliance.
        in fiscal year 2013, problems concerning working-hour management at the time of clocking out at domes-
    tic group companies were verified based on investigations by the labor bureau and other authorities, and we
    quickly took corrective actions. we had no record of legal violations related to labor laws, such as those per-
    taining to minimum wage.


                                                                corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 24




53889312609.indd   24                                                                                                    2014/09/29   18:29:34

      measures for occupational health and safety

    we established the occupational health and safety basic policy under the ibiden way, formulated “occupa-
    tional health and safety goals (2013-2017),” and focused on occupational health and safety, specifically, by
    following the activity guidelines for fiscal year 2013.

                                     occupational health and safety - basic policy

                             we conduct the health and safety activity done with all concerned people
                             under ibiden way, and aim to harmonize “health and safety” and “opera-
                             tion” with the fundamental rule to minimize the risk that may affect the life
                             and health of person participating to ibiden’s operations.

                                     occupational health and safety policy

                             1.	we will identify the sources of risks associated with each process in our
                                 corporate activities and take steps to prevent labor accidents and ill-
                                 nesses. we will strive to reduce the risks and to maintain and enhance
                                 the physical and mental health of our employees.
                             2.	we will provide a good working environment that allows all employees
                                 to work vigorously without anxiety.
                             3.	we will comply with laws and regulations relating to occupational
                                 health and safety and with other recognized requirements.
                             4.	we will operate an occupational health and safety management system           employee carrying
                                 to ensure that every employee engages in occupational health and             occupational health
                                 safety activities and to make continued improvements to attain our oc-         and safety card
                                 cupational health and safety goal.
                             5.	we will ensure that every employee is aware of our occupational health
                                 and safety policy, using occupational health and safety cards and other means to raise their aware-
                                 ness of occupational health and safety and encourage proactive behavior.
                             6.	we make this policy public and we make it available any time when requested.
                                 we also make this policy available on our website. http://www.ibiden.com/

      organization chart of occupational health and safety management
                                     (promotion organization)                                                         (action organization)                (audit organization)

                                      company-wide environment,
                                                                                                                          president & ceo
                                                                                                   top management




                                      health and safety committee

                                                                                                                                                           internal audit committee

                                     company-wide zero accident committee                                                director in charge


                                      environment, health and
                                      safety promotion meeting

                                                                                                                    occupational health and safety oﬃcer

                                       plant health and safety committee
                                                                                                                           plant managers
                                     chairperson:
          (statutory organization)




                                     general health and safety manager                                              health and safety managers
                                     (plant manager)
                                                                                                                         division manager
                                     committees:
                                     [the company representative committees]
                                     safety managers                                                                      group managers
                                     health managers                                                                      team managers
                                     occupational health physicians
                                                                                        operation chief                     team leaders
                                     and other employees appointed by the company
                                                                                     (appointed employees)
                                     [labor union representative committees]*
                                     employees nominated by the labor union         other statutory managers
                                                                                                                                                                            name of
                                                                                     (appointed employees)                  section chiefs                              …
                                                                                                                                                                            meeting


                                     division zero accident committee                                                  safety circle leaders                            … organization


                                                                                                                                                                            statutory
                                     safety promotion circle meeting                                                          employees                                 …
                                                                                                                                                                            organization
    ＊the number of labor union representative committee is composed of the same or more number of the company repre-
      sentative committees.
                                                                   corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 25




53889312609.indd                      25                                                                                                                                                   2014/09/29   18:29:34

    reviews and sharing information
    president, officers, directors and the presidents of affiliated companies as well as the chairperson of the labor
    union participate in the company-wide environmental/health and safety committee to be held twice a year,
    aimed at sharing the status of activities in accordance with the environmental/occupational health and safety
    policies and understanding challenges.
        the company-wide zero accident committee is attended by each plant manager and management persons
    responsible for promotion at affiliated companies, and it functions as a place for common understanding in or-
    der to implement the plan-do-check-act (pdca) cycle of activities of the entire ibiden group. moreover,
    activities are expanded from the monthly committees of plants to health and safety circles (small group activi-
    ties) in the workplace, in which all employees participate and carry out communication related to health and
    safety and activities to improve the working environment. thus, labor and management promote activities in a
    body, verifying the status of progress in goals concerning health and safety.



      activity guidelines for occupational health and safety and results

    activity guidelines for occupational health and safety
    with “reduction of occupational accidents and potential incidents and improvement to the working environ-
    ment,” “legal compliance” and “reduction in mental illness and life-style related diseases” as the pillars of our
    activities, we implemented occupational health and safety programs for the entire ibiden group, with all
    members participating in the activities. in fiscal year 2014, we will implement measures with a focus on the
    followings,
    1. to improve the effectiveness of risk assessment and reduce all types of accidents/incidents to zero.
    2. to incorporate findings of safety patrol/potential accidents and hazards (hiyari-hatto)/hazard information
         of ky (risk prediction) into risk assessment to enable systematic risk control.
    3. to implement fire-protection control assuming all potential causes to prevent fires, including small fires.
    4. to enhance the level of disaster prevention management to save lives in the time of a large-scale disaster.
    5. to aim for zero accidents by continuing a health and safety workshop for on-site contractors.
    6. to carry out activities in which all members participate based on the “next health 105 plan.”

    measures to implement intensively
    1. basic activities
    (1)	workplace safety group activities (potential accidents and hazards (hiyari-hatto), etc.)
    we implement on-site workplace safety group activities by workplace. every year, we upgrade the guidelines
    and assessment standards for group activities and promote enhancing the level of safety activities. in fiscal year
    2013, we carried out activities where superiors in such groups (managers) responsibly corrected and improved
    100% of the risks and hazards that became apparent by actual potential accidents and hazards (hiyari-hatto)
    and ky (results: 98.6%).

    (2)	safety patrol (office organization, safety management section and plant) *communication on-site and in kind
          is a basic.
    we regularly conduct self-inspection of office organizations by workplace safety group and safety patrols such
    as plant health and safety patrols by plant supervisors, managers and labor union members more than once a
    month. in fiscal year 2013, since occupational accidents were increasing (10 cases) in the first half, the direc-
    tor in charge of safety conducted a safety patrol. we provided instructions and guidance on-site and in kind
    concerning how to work on health and safety to plant supervisors and heads of the divisions (directors in
    charge). as a result, we successfully reduced the number of occupational accidents to four in the second half.

    2. specialized activities
    (1)	thorough implementation of operational safety and environment assessment (safety design and test)
    we thoroughly enforce the system of safety design, construction safety management and completion test by
    certified inspectors in accordance with iss (ibiden safety standard) and submission of notifications in accor-
    dance with relevant laws and regulations. in fiscal year 2013, to increase the level of construction safety
    management, we issued the “ibiden standards for health and safety management for contract work (15th
    edition)” and held a workshop for 90 contractors that have business with us through the “ibiden safety &
    health promotion meeting for contractors” (held three times a year).

    (2)	health and safety risk assessment (in terms of facilities and operations)
    we conduct health and safety risk assessment (ra) of all sites in february every year. before conducting ra,
    we provided “ra implementation training” to leaders and superiors (managers) of safety groups for the pur-
    pose of improving their skills to “recognize risks and hazards”. as a result, the number of risks recognized
    increased by about 20% compared to fiscal year 2012.
       as for the “materiality of ra results” for risks that may lead to death or disabilities, the division in charge of
    health and safety confirmed the adequacy of assessment on-site and in kind as well as the effectiveness of mea-
    sures to mitigate risks. as a result, all the measures to mitigate risks were completed.

                                                                   corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 26




53889312609.indd   26                                                                                                       2014/09/29   18:29:34

                            ibiden group (japan)            ibiden
                                                                                     number of occupational accidents
                            manufacturing industry          all industry
                                                                                     [ibiden and domestic group companies]
        2.0                                                                                                                       domestic group
                                                                                                             ibiden
        1.8          1.61            1.62            1.59            1.58
                                                                                                                                    companies
        1.6                                                                             fatalities             0（0）                     0（1）
        1.4
                                                                                       accidents
        1.2          0.98
                                     1.05            1.00                              requiring               2（1）                     3（5）
                                                                     0.94
        1.0                                                                              leave
                                     0.76
        0.8                                                                           accidents
        0.6          0.47                                                            not requiring             6（5）                     5（1）
                                                     0.40                                leave
                                     0.65                            0.31
        0.4
        0.2                                                                0.17      minor injuries            6（9）                     3（5）
                     0.31
                                                0.08
        0.0                                                                          *	the figures in parentheses represent the numbers of occupational
                    2010           2011              2012            2013     (fy)      accidents in fiscal year 2012

                     occupational accident frequency rate*
                   [ibiden and domestic group companies]
        *	number of occupational injuries (be equal or more than ac-
          cidents requiring leave) for every million cumulative actual
          working hour



    management indicators
    1. status of occurrence of occupational accidents
    (1)	domestic plants (ibiden)
    at seven plants, the number of occupational accidents in fiscal year 2013 was 14 (down 6%), while it was 15
    in fiscal year 2012.
        most of the accidents (10) occurred in the first half. as managers reacknowledged the importance of work-
    ing under the awareness of safety first, and we implemented safety patrols and basic small-group activities
    and provided training, the number of accidents decreased to four in the second half. meanwhile, since occu-
    pational accidents in non-routine operations are not decreasing, we will promote measures to decrease
    accidents by risk assessment.

    (2)	domestic affiliated companies
    although the number of occupational accidents decreased from 12 in fiscal year 2012 to 11 in fiscal year
    2013 (down 8%), the number of accidents not accompanied by lost work time and accidents accompanied
    by lost work time increased from seven in fiscal year 2012 to eight. we will take measures focusing on activi-
    ties that are largely affected to make a steady improvement.

    (3)	overseas major manufacturing companies
    the number of occupational accidents accompanied by lost work time (four days or longer) was 33 in fiscal
    year 2013 compared to 42 in fiscal year 2012.
       we hold a global ehs meeting every month between the headquarters and each major manufacturing
    company to follow the pdca cycle of “pointing out problems”, “proposal of solutions for issues”, “support and
    guidance” and “audit for effectiveness”, and promote enhancing the activity level of the entire ibiden group.

    (4)	contract work
    the number of occupational accidents was 2 in fiscal year 2013 against 2 in fiscal year 2012 (a year-on-year
    increase/decrease of 0%)
       we continue to hold the “ibiden safety & health promotion meeting for contractors” (held three times a
    year) to promote enhancement of the level of health and safety management by, for example, compliance
    with relevant laws and regulations and the company’s rules, facilitation of active participation in our disas-
    ter-prevention activities and exchange of opinions in group exercises.

    2. overwork and persons suffering from mental health problems
    the total number of overworked employees decreased from last year as we continued to strengthen working
    hour management and provide training for promotion of mental health. however, the number of overworked
    employees to whom health and welfare measures were applied and the number of employees who suffered
    from mental health problems has been increasing (overworked employees to whom health and welfare mea-
    sures were applied: increased from 24 to 45, employees who suffered from mental health problems: increased
    from 0.9% to 1.4%） .
       we will promote training and preventive management so that superiors can manage on their own continu-
    ously.

                                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 27




53889312609.indd    27                                                                                                                            2014/09/29   18:29:35

      managing employee health

    next health 105 plan
    while the “the second term of the national health promotion movement in the 21st century (health japan
    21 (the second term))” is being promoted by the ministry of health, labour and welfare, the company as well
    as its domestic group companies have been working on health promotion of employees by implementing the
    “next health 105 plan”, the five-year plan from fiscal year 2013 to fiscal year 2017.

    ★health105 plan
    ≪principles of activities≫
    (1) it is fundamental that each employee “protects his/her health by him/herself”, and the company supports
    it.
    (2) the “level of health of employees” and the “health performance of the company” are a barometer of the
    company’s expansivity and contribution to society.
    (3)	to extend healthy life expectancy.
    (4)	to overcome lifestyle-related diseases.

    ≪target≫
    (1)	to maintain and improve physical and mental health of employees.
    (2)	to improve labor productivity.
    (3)	to reduce medical expenses.
    in fiscal year 2013, with employees, families and global as keywords, the health subcommittees, in coopera-
    tion with each plant, implemented activities to achieve the abovementioned targets. in the company cafeteria,
    we held an event for health food and worked on improvement of employees’ health consciousness.
        in order to prevent any employee from having to take leave of absence due to mental health problems, we
    promote the utilization of the “e-health check system” that allows each employee to check his/her level of
    physical and mental stress (self-care). we also created a collection of cases for early detection and response
    and implemented educational activities for managers and supervisors by having a workshop by an occupa-
    tional health physician and providing training by job grade (line care). based on the results of the “e-health
    check system”, an occupational health physician analyzes the organization, recognizes issues and makes pro-
    posals. besides that, we have a system in place that provides psychological support to transferees at the time
    of organizational change (care by occupational health and safety staff).



    health105 plan (fy2013 to 2017) activity plan and management indicators (ibiden)
                               items                        indicators            performance in fy 2013           target in fy2014
          increase in the number of persons who
                                                          bmi 18.5-24.9                    74.70%                         76%
                 maintain a proper weight
       increase in the number of persons who have    30 minutes or more/day,
                                                                                           14.10%                         17%
                developed exercise habits              twice or more/week
                   decline in the ratio of smokers       ratio of smokers                  35.20%                       30.60%
                                                     mental disorders leave
        improvement of ability to cope with stress   rate of more than one                                               0.50%
                                                             month




                                                                            corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 28




53889312609.indd     28                                                                                                              2014/09/29   18:29:35

    keeping environmental preservation in business in mind, we will thoroughly eliminate the loss of resources
    and energy in order to contribute to social development efficiently. we will dedicate ourselves to environmen-
    tal protection by offering technologies and products designed to reduce the environmental burden.

      environmental management - basic policy
    we conduct the environmental load reduction activity with all concerned people
    under ibiden way, aim“harmony with nature”by reducing the bad effect on
    global environment generated in our business operation, and fulfill the role as
    enduring company.

      environmental policy
    1.	we contribute to protecting the global environmental by minimizing the envi-
        ronmental burden in every process of our company’   s activities. we especially
        value water and its benefits to the earth.
    2.	we continuously promote positive and effective use of clean energy by devel-
        oping and improving eco-technology that saves energy and resources.
    3.	we comply with environmental rules and regulations of domestic and inter-
        national countries. we set our own standards and advance our environmental
        management capabilities.
    4.	we encourage all employees to share the purpose and goals of environmen-
                                                                                           employee carrying
        tal protection and devote themselves to environmental protection activities.
        we accomplish this by utilizing an environmental management system.             environmental policy card
    5.	we publicize this environmental policy by distributing a policy carrying card
        to promote awareness of environmental protection and to inspire each employee to act voluntarily.
    6.	we make this policy public and we make it available any time when requested.
    	we also make this policy available on our website. http://www.ibiden.com/

      organization chart of environmental management
    grounded in values that emphasize harmony with nature, we are working group-wide to promote environ-
    mental management. with the president as the head of the companywide environmental management
    system, we have established the workplace-based environment committee led by the head of each work-
    place to facilitate environmental management.
       (consultative/promotion organization)                      (action organization)                         (audit/regulation organization)

                                                                                                                           internal audit
                                               top management




                                                                    president & ceo
                                                                                                                             committee
                                                                   director in charge of
                                                                environmental management
        company-wide environment,                                                                                    pollution control supervisor
        health and safety committee
                                                                                                                         (plant manager)
                                                                environmental management



                                                                                                                                                                *appointing manager necessary for plants
         environment, health and                                       representative
        safety promotion meeting                                                                                      pollution control manager
                                                                      plant manager                                  (appointed employee)


                                                                                                                      waste control manager
         plant environment committee                                                                                 (appointed employee)
                                                                environmental representative
                                                                                                                    waste control facilities engineering
                                                                                                                    manager (appointed employee)
         plant consultative organization                            division manager
                                                                                                                    special management industrial
                                                                                                                    waste management representative
       *operating with organization of                                                                              (appointed employee)
        section meeting necessary for                                group manager
        each plants                                                  team manager                                    other statutory managers
                                                                                                                     (appointed employees)
                                                                      team leader


                                                                        employee                                   waste control operator
                                                                         member
                                                                                                                 pollution causing facilities manager
                                                                                                                appointed in the presence of the relevant facilities

    apart from the activities mentioned above, we host a monthly training camp to promote improvement
    activities that enhance our business competitiveness while remaining environmentally responsible in areas
    such as energy, wastewater, and effluent. moreover, we hold meetings organized by environmental protection
    promoters who are designated by each operational division, while the entire group shares information on
    environmental protection in the global conference on the environment.
                                                                                    corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 29




53889312609.indd   29                                                                                                                                         2014/09/29                                   10:34:23

      management system certification status
    domestic group companies certified with iso 14001 and ohsas 18001*¹
    we are pursuing iso14001 and ohsas18001*¹ certification with an in-house management system as the means
    to continuously improve the environmental footprint caused by the group's activities, products and services.
       together with ibiden electronics industries co., ltd., ibiden graphite co., ltd., and ibiden engineering
    co., ltd. (water treatment section), which are directly linked to our business activities, we obtained
    iso14001 certification in january 2000 and ohsas18001 certification in march 2003. since fiscal year 2011,
    we have been operating a management system that integrates both iso 14001 and ohsas 18001 certifica-
    tions. in fiscal year 2013, domestic group companies, ibiden bussan co., ltd. and ibiden engineering co., ltd.
    acquired ohsas18001 certification in may and october 2013, respectively.
       each workplace has an assigned full-time head (plant manager), and the environmental committee and the
    health and safety committee are led by the head of each workplace based on the plan-do-check-act (pdca)
    cycle of activities. a meeting consisting of heads of workplaces is held monthly where information is ex-
    changed on inter-workplace activities, with a goal to increase the level of all ibiden workplaces.

    *1	ohsas18001: a standard for occupational health and safety management systems. ohsas stands for occupational health and
       safety assessment series.


                        acquisition status of the iso14001 and ohsas18001 certifications for domestic group companies
     name of the                                   ibiden engineering
                                  ibiden*²                            ibiden greentec ibiden bussan         ibiden industries ibiden jushi
     group company                                 (head office)
     iso14001cert.                jan. 2000        oct. 2002          mar. 2004          may. 2005          sep. 2005         jun. 2009
     ohsas18001cert.              mar. 2003        oct. 2013          jan. 2013          may. 2013          aug. 2012         mar. 2013

    *2	the above certifications were acquired in ogaki, ogaki central, aoyanagi, gama, ogaki-kita, kinuura, godo, head office, and
       energy control division as well as some domestic group companies including ibiden electronics industries co., ltd., ibiden en-
       gineering co., ltd. (water treatment section), ibiden graphite co., ltd., and ibiden kenso co., ltd.



    overseas group companies certified with iso 14001 and ohsas 18001
    in our group, not only domestic group companies but also overseas group companies are working to obtain
    iso 14001 and ohsas 18001 certification. in august 2013, ibiden philippines, inc. acquired the ohsas 18001
    certificate. our manufacturing bases in europe, ibiden hungary kft. and ibiden dpf france s.a.s., are working
    to acquire the ohsas 18001 certificate. in the future, we will continue with efforts to obtain this certification for
    overseas group companies as well as domestic group companies.

                        acquisition status of the iso14001 and ohsas18001 certifications for overseas group companies

     name of the                  ibiden philip-   ibiden electron-   ibiden electron-   ibiden electron-                     ibiden dpf
                                                                                                            ibiden hungary
     group company                pines            ics (malaysia)     ics (beijing)      ics (shanghai)                       france

     iso14001cert.                jun. 2003        mar. 2013          jul 2003           feb. 2005          feb. 2007
                                                                                                                                  planning
     ohsas18001cert.              aug. 2013        mar. 2013          mar. 2007                 ―               planning




                                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 30




53889312609.indd   30                                                                                                                     2014/09/29   10:34:23

      environment and occupational health and safety-related laws and regulations
    the ibiden group deals with chemicals at many of its plants, some of which are adjacent to residential areas.
    issues such as air pollution, wastewater, and noise pollution therefore require our special attention.
       the group sets its own standards above and beyond what is required by national, regional, or municipal
    regulations for activities and operations that may have a significant environmental impact, and regularly mea-
    sures and monitors compliance. furthermore, to reassure the residents of surrounding areas, the group
    communicates with regional representatives about its business activities at its plants, regularly conducts a risk
    communication activity (see page 6), and publishes the monitoring results for each plant in "environmental
    measurement data by work site" (see pages 42 to 46). an accidental leak of diluted chemicals occurred dur-
    ing fiscal year 2013 due to an operational error made by an operator at a plant of our group company in the
    ogaki region. although no significant damage was caused, we are renewing our effort to thoroughly train and
    educate our employees to prevent a recurrence of this type of incident.
       furthermore, we believe that respecting laws and regulations related to the environment as well as occu-
    pational health and safety is one of our most basic responsibilities as a corporation. although we promoted
    zero violations as our target throughout fiscal year 2013, one health and safety correction in reporting practic-
    es was issued by the authority in japan. we addressed the issue immediately, including the implementation
    of a measure to prevent future errors. no penalties or sanctions related to violations of environmental and oc-
    cupational health and safety laws and regulations were issued against ibiden. we at ibiden will continue to
    promote compliance with laws and regulations. specifically during fiscal year 2014, we will strive to strength-
    en and improve our environmental/health and safety management system by auditing and patrolling while
    promoting activities to enhance compliance with laws and regulations to achieve zero violations and zero resi-
    dent complaints.




                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 31




53889312609.indd   31                                                                                                     2014/09/29   10:34:23

      guidelines for environmental activities
    in fiscal year 2013, we made "improvement of energy consumption per unit," "effective use of resources," and
    "reduction of environment risks" the pillars of our activities, working on a group-wide basis to achieve environ-
    mental protection. in fiscal year 2014, we will promote the following activities with the aim of strengthening
    competitiveness in environmental protection.
    1. we will cut energy costs and resource losses (water/chemicals/wastewater) by reducing our environmen-
        tal costs through organizational activities such as training camps.
    2. we will reduce energy loss through energy management in conjunction with load curtailment.
    3. working with the quality management system, we will conduct a design review to manage our environ-
        mental costs and risks accurately and efficiently.
    4. we will enhance the level of disaster prevention management to prevent irreparable environmental dam-
        age from occurring during a large-scale disaster.
    5. we will achieve zero violations with global management system in compliance with chemical substance-
        related laws and regulations.
    6. we will secure a stable supply of electricity/steam/cold water through risk management.
    as energy consumption has a significant impact on business, improving it will strengthen the ibiden group's
    competitive edge. to establish complete control over our energy from supply to consumption, we are setting
    up working groups on energy within the framework of our training camp to enhance competitiveness.



      coping with climate change issues
    issues related to climate change are receiving increasing attention worldwide, and tighter laws and regula-
    tions on emissions are expected in the near future. these issues have the potential to become risk factors,
    such as increased energy/resource costs affecting the group's business activities. however, if we develop
    products that are compatible with regulations worldwide, these same issues can also serve as an opportunity
    for us to become part of the solution while expanding our business at the same time.
        we have already set in motion our plan to comply and adapt to laws and regulations such as japan's act
    for countermeasures against global warming and laws related to rationalization of energy usage (the energy
    conservation act). through private power generation initiatives to supply clean energy as well as energy con-
    servation efforts in our manufacturing activities, we are working to cut direct greenhouse gas emissions.

    measures to supply clean energy
    the ibiden group can trace its history back to a scheme aimed at building a hydroelectric power plant up-
    stream on the ibigawa river to supply power and attract industry and thereby help revitalize the nearby city
    of ogaki. the group was established under the name ibigawa electric company in 1912, but over time began
    to utilize electricity to evolve into an electrochemical company. we have continued to expand our business
    since then, including areas such as carbides, carbon, building materials, ceramic products and electronic prod-
    ucts, as we have grown and developed hand in hand with local communities.
       ibiden owns three hydroelectric power plants in the upstream section of ibigawa river in gifu prefecture.
    hydraulic power generation uses the potential energy of water to create clean energy without greenhouse
    gas emissions.




                   hirose power plant (updated in 2012)   kawakami power plant(updated in 2013)     higashi-yokoyama power plant
                          power output: 8,900kw                 power output: 4,400kw                  power output: 13,600kw


                                                                                  corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 32




53889312609.indd    32                                                                                                                     2014/09/29   10:34:24

    repair work on hydroelectric facilities and electric power supply for demanders
    to maintain its power output, ibiden has systematically completed repair work, which included repair work
    on the water supply tunnels and a generator upgrade to the latest model, at its three hydroelectric power
    plants (higashi yokoyama, hirose, and kawakami). while the repair work at the higashi yokoyama plant and
    the upgrade at the hirose plant had already been completed, the kawakami plant was updated during fiscal
    year 2013, which boosted its power generation capacity by 300 kw from 4,100 kw.
       the hirose and kawakami hydroelectric power plants, which have undergone a facility upgrade, satisfy the
    standard for the "renewable energy buyback program." in march 2013, we also established a facility within the
    ogaki-kita plant to connect our power grid to that of electric companies, to supply them with surplus power.
       beginning in 2013, electricity generated at first the hirose plant and then the kawakami plant was ear-
    marked specifically for sale to be provided to our regional electric demanders, improving co2 emission factor.
    based on the amount of power generated by the two hydroelectric power plants, their co2 emission contri-
    bution in fiscal year 2013 was 23,900 tons.

    we introduced a co-generation system in 1992 to use clean                           purchased electricity                                   private generated electricity with

    energy instead of purchased electric power, increasing our                          private generated electricity with
                                                                                        solar power generation system
                                                                                                                                                co-generation system
                                                                                                                                                private generated electricity with
    clean energy supply. while generating power from turbines          （1,000mwh）
                                                                          600
                                                                                        electricity sales (hydroelectric generation system)     hydroelectric generation system


    that operate by fuel combustion, this system also uses waste                    repair works for kawakami power
                                                                                                                                   start of supplying electricity generated at the
                                                                                                                                   hirose plant and the kawakami plant
                                                                                    plant and its water supply tunnel
    heat to produce steam, which is then employed in factories.           500
    as a consequence, the system excels in energy efficiency. in                                        172                   146                                    64


    addition, we recently introduced large-scale solar power sys-         400                                                                    171                 97


    tems on the rooftop of our head office building in november                     163
                                                                                                        0.80
                                                                                                                             0.69
                                                                                                                              121
                                                                                                                                                                   0.82
                                                                          300                                                                                        68
    2005 and at the ogaki central plant in march 2008.                                                  119
                                                                                                                                                 0.80
       to upgrade our private power generation systems, we                           97
                                                                                    0.76                                                          92                255
                                                                          200                                                 217
    are increasing hydroelectric power generation capacity and                      108
                                                                                                        186
                                                                                                                                                 154
    improving thermal power generation efficiency. although we            100
                                                                                     97
    have expanded our use of natural energy and continued to
    improve the efficiency of environmentally sound co-genera-               0
                                                                                   2009               2010                  2011               2012               2013 （fy）
    tion systems, our electricity self-sufficiency rate approximat-              electric power use and electricity sales
    ed 40% in fiscal year 2013, as we began supplying power to                         (ibiden domestic premises)
    regional electric demanders during the same year.




           hydroelectric power                a co-generation system                      solar power generation
           three hydroelectric power plants   co-generation systems operate at            solar cell panels with a total rated gen-
           are working in the upstream        our plants.                                 erating capacity of 647 kwh have been
           section of the ibigawa river.                                                  introduced on rooftop of our head office
                                                                                          building and at the ogaki central plant.




                                                                  corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 33




53889312609.indd   33                                                                                                                                                      2014/09/29   10:34:24

    energy conservation
    as the group consumes a large amount of energy through its production activities—whether it is the tempera-
    ture control during the manufacturing process of electronics or the electric furnaces used for ceramics—
    energy conservation is an important issue for us. all manufacturing divisions are therefore managing the
    energy unit load as well as the energy consumption and setting specific targets for each division to improve
    the energy conservation practices throughout the entire group.
        based on the pdca cycle for improving our energy                                 direct co emissions (scope1)
                                                                                                            2

                                                                                         indirect co emissions（ scope2）
    conservation practices, and as one of the themes at the
                                                                                                                2

                                                                                         co emission unit load rate* performance
                                                                                                        2



    training camp to enhance competitiveness, our manufac-                 （kt-co e）                2                            （rate）
    turing divisions as well as relevant functional divisions will         1,000                                                  120
                                                                                     106
    work together to establish an action plan, report on                      900            100                100        99
                                                                                                      96
    progress, deliver presentations on actual practices to                    800
                                                                                                                                  100

    share information on improvements, and consider the ad-                   700
                                                                                                                623       641     80
    vice given by management. we will also monitor a




                                                                                  (co2 emissions)
                                                                              600            569      576




                                                                                                                                (unit load)
                                                                                                                          147
    number of risk factors, such as an increase in energy                                                       182
                                                                              500 452                                             60
    costs, to further improve our practices, as we believe that                              231      237
                                                                              400
    increasing our energy efficiency is directly related to the                      216                                          40
                                                                              300
    company's competitiveness.                                                                                            494
                                                                                                                441
                                                                              200
        for fiscal year 2013, we selected five themes including                              338      339                         20
    reducing energy consumption at production facilities, stan-               100 236

    dardizing energy conservation design at new plants, and                      0
                                                                                     2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 （fy）
                                                                                                                                  0

    monitoring our energy consumption. for fiscal year 2014,
                                                                          co2 emission and co2 emission unit load rate
    we will move forward with activities planned around
                                                                              (per production volume) [ibiden group]
    themes such as reducing the amount of coolant used and
                                                                   *1: the above rate is calculated at the rate of 100 per-
    reducing energy consumption by grouping productions                cent of the result of fiscal year 2012.
    spaces and processes together.                                 *2: c o 2 emissions show figures covering production-
                                                                       related locations in japan and overseas. with regard
        the results of our energy conservation activities will         to the co2 emission factor at the time of calculation,
    be measured using two indexes: the amount of energy                we used the factor provided by the“list of calculation
                                                                       methods/emission factors in the calculation, report
    consumption and the energy unit load (per production               and publication system”of the ministry of the environ-
    volume). another index to be used is energy consump-               ment and the ministry of economy, trade and industry
                                                                       in japan as well as by gas distribution companies.
    tion converted into co 2 emissions. our target is to
    improve it annually by 2% globally during the period between fiscal year 2013 and fiscal year 2017.
        our co2 emissions rose during fiscal year 2013 as our overseas production volume increased. however,
    our co2 emission unit load rate, based on the results analysis of fiscal year 2012, decreased due to factors
    such as our energy conservation activities and improved production efficiency. although we did not reach the
    target due to an increase in the co2 emission factor of an electric power company, our target is considered
    as reached when calculating based on the co2 emission factor at the time when the target was established.
        (please refer to the graph“co2 emission and co2 emission unit load rate”.)

    details of energy conservation improvements in fiscal 2013
                                                        priority themes (excerpts)
     reduction in energy consumption at production facilities
     standardization and energy-saving design of a new plant
     promotion of energy monitoring
     co2 reduction through energy conservation activities       26,600t-co2*

    * the above is an estimated amount obtained by converting the contents of improvement activities to co2 reductions.




                                                                          corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 34




53889312609.indd   34                                                                                                                         2014/09/29   10:34:24

      resource circulation
    resource circulating activities
    ibiden believes that it is an important responsibility of                                                                amount of solid waste
    businesses to make effective use of the world’s scarce                                                                   solid waste unit load rate* performance

    resources and to take part in a global effort to conserve                                                 （t）                                                       （rate）
    resources. we promote the so-called 3r activity, which                                                 50,000
    consists of initiatives to reduce, reuse and recycle the                                                        110
                                                                                                                                                                        100
                                                                                                                                101       102
    resources we consume. in doing so, we aim to improve                                                                                            100
                                                                                                           40,000                                              93
    the resources efficiency. since 2004, ibiden has been main-




                                                                                 (amount of solid waste)
                                                                                                                                                                        80
    taining a zero-emission* status in terms of solid waste.
       the ibiden group sets an index to control solid waste                                               30,000




                                                                                                                                                                             (unit load)
                                                                                                                                                                        60
    per production volume and has been taking action to im-
    plement such control.                                                                                  20,000
                                                                                                                                                                        40
       our target is to improve it annually by 2% globally
    during the period between fiscal year 2013 and fiscal year
                                                                                                           10,000                                                       20
    2017. in fiscal year 2013, we improved the sortability of




                                                                                                                                                               39,600
                                                                                                                                          40,400



                                                                                                                                                     40,800
                                                                                                                    30,500



                                                                                                                                37,200
    packaging materials and reviewed our subcontractors. as
    a result, we succeeded in turning what would have been                                                     0
                                                                                                                    2009       2010      2011      2012       2013 （fy）
                                                                                                                                                                        0
    waste into valuable resources. our material use efficiency
                                                                               amount of solid waste and solid waste unit load rate
    also continues to improve. the overall volume of waste is
                                                                                                 [ibiden group]
    declining, and the volume of waste per production volume
                                                                             *the above rate is calculated at the rate of 100 percent of
    decreased compared with the previous year by 7%, which
                                                                               the result of fiscal year 2012
    met the planned target. (please refer to the graph
    "amount of solid waste and solid waste unit load rate".)

    * ibiden defines zero emission as a state in which no solid waste emitted from the production process is dumped directly in land-
       fills.


    effective utilization and reduction of water resources (water conservation efforts)
    a large amount of water resources is used in the manu-                               water withdrawal
                                                                                         water withdrawal unit load rate* performance
    facturing process of electronic products, particularly for
    cleansing. ogaki city in gifu prefecture, where our do-              （1000m³）                                                 （rate）

    mestic production bases are concentrated, is rich in un-             20,000                                                    140

    derground water thanks to the ibigawa river system.                              130                                           120
    however, water shortages are a serious problem in the
                                                                         15,000
    world today. based on the principle of so-called 3r activi-                             106                                    100
                                                                                 (water withdrawal)




                                                                                                                100
    ty—initiatives to reduce, reuse, and recycle resources—                                           99
                                                                                                                           91
                                                                                                                                                                             (unit load)


    the group carries out business activities by integrating                                                                       80
                                                                         10,000
    environmental technologies into manufacturing technolo-
                                                                                                                                   60
    gies, which has reduced the amount of industrial water
    use. to ensure the optimum control of wastewater and                                                                           40
                                                                           5,000
    effluent and the facilitation of 3r activity for water re-
    sources, since fiscal year 2008 all concerned divisions
                                                                                                                                                               12,000
                                                                                                                    11,500



                                                                                                                                12,300



                                                                                                                                          12,300



                                                                                                                                                     12,800




                                                                                                                                   20
    have been meeting every month for a full day of discus-
                                                                               0                                                   0
    sion to confirm and report on the progress.                                     2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 （fy）
        the ibiden group sets a benchmark for managing the
                                                                   water withdrawal and water withdrawal unit load rate
    water withdrawal per production volume. our target is to
                                                                                          [ibiden group]
    improve it annually by 2% globally during the period be-
                                                                 *the above rate is calculated at the rate of 100 percent of
    tween fiscal year 2013 and fiscal year 2017.
                                                                   the result of fiscal year 2012
        ibiden electronics (beijing) co., ltd. could become a
    high-risk site for water resources. the scope of the use of
    recycled water has therefore been expanded within the industrial park starting in fiscal year 2012. (the result
    for fiscal year 2013 was more than 90%.)
        the water withdrawal per production volume for fiscal year 2013 achieved a 9% decrease compared to
    fiscal year 2012. we will continue our commitment to reducing the water withdrawal unit load rate at all
    plants by means of water conservation and recycling activities.
        (please refer to the graph entitled“water withdrawal and water withdrawal unit load rate.”                      )




                                                                           corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 35




53889312609.indd   35                                                                                                                                                                2014/09/29   10:34:24

      appropriate chemical control
    responding to the regulations regarding chemical substances in products and manufacturing processes
    ibiden uses various chemical substances in the plating process. since chemical substances may cause pollu-
    tion and human health hazards, we practice rigorous control to prevent chemicals from causing harm. we are
    reducing the use of or even eliminating certain chemicals. we operate the chemical control committee as an
    internal organization, establishing a system to swiftly identify and respond to community demands related to
    chemical substances as shown in the reach system in europe. we have also operated the systems for chemi-
    cal control at overseas manufacturing bases. the company takes part in the industry-wide discussion and in-
    formation-sharing on issues such as regulations regarding chemical substances by serving as a trustee for the
    japan electronics packaging and circuits association and participating in its environmental safety committee.

    approach to the supply chain
    cooperation throughout the entire supply chain is essential to address environ-
    mental issues including chemical control as well as to push forward with csr.
    we issue green procurement guidelines to our major suppliers in an effort to check
    the status of our business partners’measures for environmental management and
    chemical control and conduct surveys on the status of chemical substances that
    may cause a significant environmental burden. the company conducts content ex-
    aminations not only on substances already designated as examination items by
    regulation, but also those that are likely to receive such a designation in the near
    future. we are also organizing a structure that will allow us to work collaboratively
    with suppliers to address nations' environmental regulations in a timely manner.
        our intention for fiscal year 2013 was to continue to deepen our under-
    standing of information gathered and carefully and meticulously select exami-
    nation items without fail, while working closely within the purchasing system.
    we are also establishing rules and guidelines for our overseas bases to enable
    them to conduct their own examinations. some overseas bases, including those
    in malaysia and china, have already conducted their own content examinations
    and have become familiar with the procedure. moreover, the information gath-                                                   ibiden group green
    ered by the company regarding chemical substance contents is managed by an                                                   procurement guidelines
    it system that has been designed to respond quickly to inquiries. we also sys-
    tematically conduct on-site audits of priority suppliers (see pages 17 to 18).

    released and transferred amounts of prtr*-listed chemical substances
    with respect to domestic laws, to respond to the prtr law and the law concerning the examination and
    regulation of manufacture, etc. of chemical substances, we are enhancing in-house chemical control systems
    to build a management structure that prevents any omissions and errors.
    * prtr：pollutant release and transfer register


    ●released and transferred amounts of prtr-listed chemical substances in fy 2013
     ■ 13 chemical substances subject to mandatory reporting to gifu and aichi prefecture
     ■ specified class i designated chemical substance: 2
     ■ class i designated chemical substance: 11   ■ total amounts released or transferred: approx. 398t/ year
                                                                 amount discharged (to air, public waterway, soil, or
                                                                                                                             amount transferred           total
                                                                                 in-house landfill)
                                                                                                                                                         amount
      id                                                                     discharged discharged         buried in                     transffered   discharged
                        regulated substance                      discharged   to public  to soil on       landfill off-    transferred   off-side as
      no.                                                                                                                                                  and
                                                                    to air   waterway or   facility       site facility   to sewerage       waste      transferred
                                                                  (kg/year)     river     grounds           grounds         (kg/year)      material     (kg/year)
                                                                              (kg/year)  (kg/year)         (kg/year)                      (kg/year)
       20                  2-aminoethanol                             1,519           0             0                 0            0       150,359       151,878
       59                  ethylenediamine                                 0          0             0                 0            0               0           0
       76                   ε-caprolactam                                  0          0             0                 0            0              66          66
      237          mercury and its compounds                               0          0             0                 0            0             929         929
      272    copper salts(water-soluble, except complex salts)             0        610             0                 0          113         70,464       71,187
      309                 nickel compounds                                 0          0             0                 0            0           6,634       6,634
      349                        phenol                                   28          0             0                 0            0               0          28
      368                 4-tert-butylphenol                               0          0             0                 0            0              21          21
      395    water-soluble salts of peroxodisulfuric acid                  0          0             0                 0            0         33,988       33,988
      405                 boron compounds                                  0          0             0                 0            0           4,678       4,678
      408      poly(oxyethylene)octylphenyl ether                          0          0             0                 0            0               0           0
      411                   formaldehyde                              1,504           0             0                 0            0       110,979       112,483
      412        manganese and its compounds                               0          0             0                 0            0         16,083       16,083

   【surveyed】ibiden and ibiden group companies covered by ibiden’s environmental-management system
   【survey period】april 2013 through march 2014


                                                                                            corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 36




53889312609.indd   36                                                                                                                                        2014/09/29   10:34:24

      understanding the influence on biodiversity
    initiated from the power of water, the group’  s business activities are blessed with the benefit of biodiversity
    such as maintaining a stable water supply. and our activities also have some impact in the area of biodiver-
    sity. just as we need to cope with the issues of global warming due to climate change, biodiversity conserva-
    tion is one of the most important tasks to tackle.
        aiming to contribute to constant social advancement, in line with the values stressing“harmony with na-
    ture,”ibiden will act responsibly as a global enterprise by working together with society.


    forest preservation activity areas
    in august 2008, ibiden signed an agreement on lively forest creation with the gifu prefectural government,
    the ibigawa town government and the ibi shizen kankyo rangers (a nonprofit organization). according to this
    agreement, we will plant trees, thin the forests and conduct improvement cutting in ibiden’         s forest higashi
    yokoyama forest in the higashi yokoyama district and ibiden’     s forest fujihashi forest in the tsurumi district
    over the next 10 years, in an effort to support sustainable reforestation activities in the future.
    → for details on forest preservation activities, please refer to“social contribution”on page 47.

    ＜target areas of forest preservation activities＞




                                                 ▶   toyama


                             ▶   ishikawa


                   ▶   fukui
                                                             ▶   nagano
                                                                                                         tokuyama
                                                                               ibi prefectural             dam                site preparation for
                                      ▶   gifu
                                                                                natural park                                  silvicultural project
                                                                                                                              ibiden’  s forest fuji-
                                                                                                                              hashi
                                                                                                                              land area：37ha
              ▶   shiga
                                                                                                                  417
                                                 ▶   aichi

                       mie                                                                                              ibigawa river
                                                                                             hirose
                   ▶

                                                                          kawakami
                                                                          power plant      power plant


                                                                                                   303

                                                                                          higashi yokoyama
                                                                                                power plant


                                                                          the hydroelectric power is supplied                303

                                                                          to each of ibiden’s plants
                                                                                                                            site preparation for
                                                                                                                            planting project
                                                                                                                            ibiden’ s forest hi-
                                                                                                                            gashi-yokoyama
         in collaboration with the local community,
                                                                                                                            land area：4.31ha
         we held the nature study class in autumn




                                                                                        corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 37




53889312609.indd       37                                                                                                                          2014/09/29   10:34:25

      environmental contribution through business and products
    product life cycle assessment
    ibiden is promoting a design that takes into consideration safety/environmental rules and regulations, energy
    conservation and resource conservation from the initial stage of product development. in design reviews to
    examine product development/design, we have added environmentally conscious design guidelines for prod-
    uct and process safety, environmental regulations/safety of materials used and energy conservation con-
    sciousness reflected in the production process as examination items. we are building a system to confirm
    whether products developed and produced by ibiden are environmentally friendly.
       in fiscal year 2013, ibiden ratified the design guidelines for environmental considerations and began con-
    ducting information examinations of chemical substances in novel materials during the technical development
    phase. if any regulated chemical substances are found by the examination, then potential replacements will
    be explored.

    diesel particulate filter (dpf)
    as environmental regulations are tightened, the market for automotive ex-
    haust system components is likely to expand in the future. ibiden is work-
    ing to reduce the environmental burden by launching next-generation,
    high-performance products such as diesel particulate filters (dpfs), in-
    stalled into fuel-efficient, clean diesel vehicles.




                                                                                          sic-dpf（diesel particulate filter)


    projects to promote renewable energy
    ibiden engineering co., ltd., a member of the ibiden group, has initiated
    projects in the field of energy solution by making optimal use of the com-
    pany's technologies to maintain hydroelectric power plants as well as
    manage co-generation systems. it has established a system in which de-
    sign proposal, construction, and maintenance can be handled consistently
    and has seen many successes ever since, particularly in hydroelectric fa-
    cilities as well as in other power generation projects such as substations.
    it also handles projects involving facilities and equipment that contribute
    to the environment and energy conservation, such as co-generation sys-
    tems, emergency generators, and solar power generators.                                solar power generation equipment
        as environmental issues have grown increasingly serious and the de-                           (rendering)
    mand for renewable energy is on the rise, ibiden engineering co., ltd.                    (ibiden ogaki central plant)
    has built a large-scale solar power plant and began supplying electricity in
    fiscal year 2013. our goal is to promote business activities that contribute
    to solutions to energy-related issues not limited to within the group.

    projects that contribute to both disaster prevention and environmental protection
    japan's mountainous terrain has seen numerous incidents of destruction,
    such as the collapse of slopes due to natural disasters and the spread of
    development. there is thus a frequent need to create artificial slopes. to
    boost protection of the slope and ultimately prevent loss of life from land-
    slides, practices for securing artificial slopes in difficult weather and soil
    conditions have undergone many changes over the years through trial-
    and-error experimentation with methods and technologies. traditionally,
    the most common construction method has been concrete-based cen-
    tered on the ability to prevent disasters. today, however, in addition to
    disaster prevention, consideration of the environment needs to be incor-            slope constructed using the gt frame®
    porated to establish a "greener" construction method.
        ibiden greentec co., ltd., a member of ibiden group, has succeeded
    in developing technologies that respond to the needs of the time and
    help create a better society. we will continue to develop new construc-
    tion methods such as our "totally green" method to achieve both disaster
    prevention and environmental protection, which will lead to an environ-
    ment where everyone can live safely and peacefully.

                                                                  corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 38




53889312609.indd   38                                                                                                      2014/09/29   10:34:25

      environmental accounting

    1．environmental accounting in support of environmental management
    in promoting environmental management, ibiden performs calculations and analyses to develop a quantita-
    tive understanding of investment and costs, seeking to understand the management resources spent on re-
    ducing the environmental burden and the results. we use environmental accounting to reflect the effects of
    investment and cost in the decision-making process at the management level.


    2．basis for calculation
     accounting period            fiscal year 2013 (april 1, 2013 to march 31, 2014)

                                  ibiden co., ltd. and major domestic manufacturing group companies
     accounting scope             (ibiden engineering co., ltd., ibiden graphite co., ltd., ibiden kenso co., ltd., ibiden
                                  jushi co., ltd., ibiden electronics industries co., ltd., ibiden bussan co., ltd.)

                                  calculations conform to the environmental accounting guidelines (2005 edition) pub-
     calculation method
                                  lished by the ministry of the environment.


    3．main environmental protection costs
    the investment in fiscal year 2013 decreased about ¥2.8 billion, down 67% compared to the previous fiscal
    year. a major factor behind this decline in overall investment was the completion of power plant repair work
    that had begun in fiscal year 2012—"(2) global environmental protection costs)"—which signaled the end of
    our large-scale environmental investment. however, investment in "(6) research & development costs" in-
    creased 92% compared with fiscal year 2012, as we focused on r&d with the goal of reducing the environ-
    mental burden.
       the costs in fiscal year 2013 were comparable to those of the previous fiscal year. "(6) research & devel-
    opment costs" increased 11% during the year compared with fiscal year 2012, as we focused on r&d with the
    goal of reducing the environmental burden. furthermore, "(1) pollution prevention costs" decreased 15% com-
    pared with fiscal year 2012, as the production volume declined and improvements were achieved in the wa-
    ter treatment process.

                                                                                                                  (unit: million yen/year)

                                                                          investments (note 1)                     costs (note 1)
                               category
                                                                      fy 2012 fy 2013 year to year fy 2012 fy 2013 year to year

                        (1) pollution prevention costs                    268        100       －63%          2,362        2,007       －15%
      business
                        (2) global environmental conservation costs     3,628        797       －78%          1,980        2,069         +4%
      area cost
                        (3) resources circulation costs                     1           0    －100%             851          895         +5%

      (4) upstream and downstream costs                                     0           0       ―               16           14       －13%

      (5) administration costs                                             26           5      －81%            217          192       －12%

      (6) research & development costs                                    253        486       +92%          2,898        3,228       +11%

      (7) social activity costs                                             0           0       ―               42           27       －36%

      (8) environmental remediation costs                                   0           0       ―                 0            0       ―

                                  total                                 4,176      1,388       －67%          8,365        8,431         +1%

    note 1:	in cases when the total amount of investments and costs cannot be deemed to constitute environmental protection costs,
             we have calculated the difference or the proportional share.




                                                                                corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 39




53889312609.indd   39                                                                                                                    2014/09/29   10:34:25

    4．distribution ratio of total cost of environmental protection
                                     other                                    ・research and development costs include the cost of re-
                        resource
                        recycling     3%                                        searching and developing next-generation dpfs and other
                          11%                                                   environmentally responsible products, aimed at control-
                                                             research and
                                                                                ling the environmental burden.
                                                             development      ・global environmental protection costs include mainte-
                                                                 38%            nance and administration costs of hydroelectric power
                                      fy 2013                                   generation and cogeneration facilities.
        pollution                   total 8,431                               ・the environment is the main objective of costs associated
       prevention                    million yen
          24%                                                                   with hydroelectric power generation and research and de-
                                                                                velopment of environmentally responsible products. the
                                                                                total cost is aggregated, as there is no appropriate pro
                                                                                rata basis.
     global environmental
          protection
             24%

    5．economic results and real effects of environmental protection measures (note 2)
    the economic effects of energy conservation for fiscal year 2013 increased about ¥0.3 billion, a rise of 18%, com-
    pared to fiscal year 2012. this result was due mainly to efforts to reduce the loss of energy, including through the
    introduction of high-efficiency air-conditioning equipment, as well as thorough maintenance and operational effi-
    ciency at production facilities.
        the economic effects of resource recycling for fiscal year 2013 fell approximately ¥0.4 billion, a decrease of
    19%, compared to fiscal year 2012. the decline mainly reflected a drop in the gain on sale of valuable materials
    such as printed wiring boards with precious metals, liquid waste containing precious metals, sludge containing
    copper and waste plastics accompanying a decrease in manufacturing output.
                                                                                                                                     (unit: million yen/year)

                                                                                                                         amount
                                                   description of effects                                                                    year to year
                                                                                                                  fy 2012       fy 2013
                          1.	energy conservation effect and electric power marginal profit effect
                          results of effective hydroelectric power generation, improved power
                          generation efficiency, reduced idle operation loss, improved productiv-                   1,866         2,209          ＋18%
                          ity, improved air conditioning, improved steam energy, and thorough
                          maintenance and control
                          2. economic effects of resource recycling
      real effects        (1) reduced waste
                          ・effects of reduced liquid waste treatment costs, improved yield rates,
                            and reduced waste as a result of loss improvement
                          (2) recycling of waste                                                                    2,239         1,824          －19%
                          ・effects of effective use of waste
                          ・effects of disposal by sale of substrates containing precious metals,
                            liquid waste containing precious metals, sludge containing copper
                            and waste plastics
                                                           total                                                    4,105         4,033            －2%

    note 2: these figures are not including estimated measure (assumed effect).

    6．fluctuations in environmental protection costs and economic results
                                             (million yen)
                                                             ■environmental protection cost
                                             12,000
                                                             ■economic result of environmental protection measures
                                                                                    9,896
                                             10,000 9,363             9,555
                                                                                                 8,365         8,431
                                              8,000


                                              6,000
                                                                                                       4,105       4,033
                                              4,000                         3,624
                                                              3,115
                                                                                        2,788

                                              2,000


                                                     0
                                                             2009       2010          2011          2012         2013 （fy）

                                                                                            corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 40




53889312609.indd   40                                                                                                                                 2014/09/29   10:34:25

                      s material balance (input and output)
      the ibiden group’
    the ibiden group procures a variety of raw materials and is engaged in manufacturing activities by utilizing a
    considerable amount of natural resources on the earth such as water and energy. to provide earth-friendly
    products to our customers, we seek to grasp the environmental burden caused by our business activities on a
    global basis. we will continue to provide high-value-added products while setting medium- and long-term tar-
    gets and reducing our environmental burden.


                                              energy use                                                                                  raw materials
                            category                         ibiden    *1   group    *2                           category                                      ibiden   group

                    electricity purcahsed electricity        254,803        887,002                                                    metals（t）                10,350   15,644
                   （mwh）
                       *3       renewable energy              97,379         97,379                            plastics and resins（t）                           6,407    11,944

                        natural gas（1,000m ）                  33,346         53,051                                                      glass（t）                 3        90
                                                      3




                                            lpg（ｔ）             1,278         1,550                       ceramic material,etc.（t）                               15,828   37,544

                            kerosene（1,000ℓ）                   439            439                                                       wood（t）                  178      255

                            diesel oil（1,000ℓ）                  59           5,787                                                       paper（t）               8,399     8,800

                            heavy oil（1,000ℓ）                   0            2,046                           agricultural product（t）                              0       3,573

                                                                                                                               chemicals（t）                     62,758   149,144
                                         water resources
                                                                                            *1 ibiden: ibiden domestic 7 premises
                            category                          ibiden        group    *4     *2 group: ibiden domestic premises and, five japanese group
                                                                                               companies (jushi, bussan and iec (h.o.), sangyo and igt) and
                     groundwater（1,000m ）                      5,543         7,075             eight overseas group companies (ipi, ieb, ihu, idfs, ipf, iem,
                                                      3


                                                                                               mmi and ish )
                     water works（1,000m ）                       17           4,969
                                                      3
                                                                                            *3 electric power: privately generated electricity by the group's
                                                                                               thermal power other than above (89,209 mwh)
                                                                                            *4 water works include 959,000 m of recycled water at industrial
                                                                                                                               3


                                                                                               parks.



                                                                                          input


                                                                            ibiden group

                                                                                      output


                                             atmosphere                                                                                            waste
                            category                         ibiden    *1   group    *2                           category                                      ibiden   group
             co2                          scope 1 *3            80            147                               material recycling（t）                           9,991    28,977
          （1,000ｔ）
                                          scope 2 *4            95            494                               thermal recycling（t）                            1,119     2,990

                                       logistics      *5        1.3           1.3                                                       reuse（t）                 626      2,346

                    sox emissions（1,000ｔ）                       0             0.34                 amount of landfill waste after intermediate treatment（t）*6   1,133     4,179

                   nox emissions（1,000ｔ）                        0.1           2.0                 landfilled industrial waste（t）                                  0       1,108

                                                                                                      total generated waste（t）                                  12,869   39,600
                                            water system
                                 category                     ibiden         group          *1 ibiden: ibiden domestic 7 premises
                                                                                            *2 group: ibiden domestic premises and, five japanese group
                        discharge to public sewer（1,000m ）
                                                      3
                                                               500           3,375             companies (jushi, bussan and iec (h.o.), sangyo and igt) and
                                                                                               eight overseas group companies (ipi, ieb, ihu, idfs, ipf, iem,
           water discharge to river（1,000m ）
                                                      3
                                                               3,073         5,267             mmi and ish )
           system                                                                           *3 scope 1: direct co2 emissions (emissions from fuel used in busi-
                      cod contamination（t）                      5             53               ness establishments)
                                                                                            *4 scope 2: indirect co2 emissions (emissions from purchased elec-
                             nitrogen contamination（t）          5              5               tricity generation)
                                                                                            *5 logistics: transport by the ibiden group companies in japan
                             phosphorous contamination（t）       0.1           0.1           *6 this does not mean amount of final landfill disposal. amount of
                                                                                               waste which is finally disposed in a landfill (amount before vol-
                        industrial wastewater（1,000ｔ）           18            33               ume reduction treatment by incineration and such.)



                                                                                                  corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 41




53889312609.indd   41                                                                                                                                                              2014/09/29   10:34:26

      environmental data for individual plants and group companies – compliance management

    ogaki plant                                                                                                       aoyanagi plant
    ＜ no.1 wastewater measurement ＞                                                                                   ＜ no.5 wastewater measurement ＞
                 item                   unit     national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum               item                   unit     national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     ph                                          5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                        7.2     8.0     ph                                          5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                         7.2    7.5
    ＜ no.2 wastewater measurement ＞                                                                                   bod                               mg/l          160                 15              5             7.1    14
                                                                                                                      cod                               mg/l          160             regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                     total emission
                                                                                                                                                                                                     regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                                    total emission      3.0    9.8
              item                      unit     national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                                                                                                      ss                                mg/l          200                 30             30            10.0    16
     ph                                          5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                        7.3     7.9
                                                                                                                      copper                            mg/l             3                 2              1            0.33   0.68
     bod                               mg/l          160                 15              5            2.7     6.5
                                                                                                                      lead                              mg/l           0.1               0.1           0.03           <0.01 <0.01
     cod                               mg/l          160             regulation of  regulation of
                                                                                                      3.6     6.5
                                                                                                                      fluorine                          mg/l             8                 8              5            0.10   0.11
                                                                    total emission total emission

     ss                                mg/l          200                 30             30            4.4      9
                                                                                                                      cyanide                           mg/l             1               0.1            0.1           <0.01 <0.01
     copper                            mg/l             3                 2              1            0.3     0.7
                                                                                                                      ni                                mg/l            －                  －              －           <0.01 <0.01
     lead                              mg/l           0.1               0.1           0.03           <0.01 <0.01
                                                                                                                      n-h mineral oils                  mg/l             5                 5              5             <1     <1
     total chromium                    mg/l             2                 1              1           <0.02 <0.02
                                                                                                                      nitrogen                          mg/l          120                 60             60             2.1    2.8
     hexavalent chromium               mg/l           0.5              0.25           0.25           <0.02 <0.02
                                                                                                                      phosphorus                        mg/l            16                 8              8             0.1    0.2
     fluorine                          mg/l             8                 8              5           <0.1     0.1
                                                                                                                      boron and boron com-
     cyanide                           mg/l             1               0.1            0.1           <0.01 <0.01                                        mg/l          10           10            10           0.4          1.7
                                                                                                                      pounds
     n-h mineral oils                  mg/l             5                 5              5            <1      <1
                                                                                                                      ammonia and ammonium compounds,
     nitrogen                          mg/l          120                60             60             2.0     4.9                                       mg/l         100          100           100           1.7          2.2
                                                                                                                      nitrite and nitrate compounds
     phosphorus                        mg/l           16                  8              8            0.1     0.2
     boron and boron com-                                                                                             ＜ no.6 wastewater measurement ＞
                                       mg/l          10           10            10           0.2          0.2
     pounds                                                                                                                    item                      unit     national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     ammonia and ammonium compounds,                                                                                  ph                                          5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                        7.7     7.9
                                       mg/l         100          100           100           1.7          4.4
     nitrite and nitrate compounds                                                                                    bod                               mg/l          160                 15             10            0.5     1.6
    ＜ air measurement ＞                                                                                               cod                               mg/l          160             regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                     total emission
                                                                                                                                                                                                     regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                                    total emission     0.6     1.9
                                                                                                                      ss                                mg/l          200                 30             30            <1      <1
          item      equipment           unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                                                                                                      cyanide                           mg/l             1               0.1            0.1           <0.01 <0.01
                    boiler no.11       g/㎥n       0.3             0.27           0.27            0.003   0.003
                                                                                                                      phenol                            mg/l             5               0.4            0.4           <0.1    <0.1
                    boiler no.12       g/㎥n       0.3             0.27           0.27            0.001   0.001
                                                                                                                      n-h mineral oils                  mg/l             5                 5              5            <1      <1
                    boiler no.13       g/㎥n       0.3             0.27           0.27            0.001   0.001
                                                                                                                      nitrogen                          mg/l          120                60             60             1.0     1.4
                    boiler no.14       g/㎥n       0.3             0.27           0.27            0.003   0.003
                                                                                                                      phosphorus                        mg/l           16                  8              8           0.05    0.06
                    boiler no.15       g/㎥n       0.3             0.27           0.27            0.002   0.002
                    boiler no.16       g/㎥n       0.3             0.27           0.27            0.003   0.003        ＜ air measurement ＞
                    boiler no.17       g/㎥n       0.3             0.27           0.27            0.002   0.002            item       equipment           unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                    boiler no.18       g/㎥n       0.3             0.27           0.27            0.003   0.003                       boiler no.2        g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                    boiler no.19       g/㎥n       0.3             0.27           0.27            0.001   0.001            soot       gas turbine no.1   g/㎥n      0.05             0.05           0.05 <0.001 <0.001
          soot
                    boiler no.20       g/㎥n       0.3             0.27           0.27            0.002   0.002                       gas turbine no.2   g/㎥n      0.05             0.05           0.05 <0.001 <0.001
                    boiler no.21       g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09            <0.001  <0.001                      boiler no.2         ppm      150               150           150              88      88
                    boiler no.22       g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09            <0.001  <0.001           nox        gas turbine no.1    ppm        70               70             70             19      25
                    boiler no.23       g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09            <0.001  <0.001                      gas turbine no.2    ppm        70               70             70             17      21
                    boiler no.24       g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09            <0.001  <0.001       ＜ noise measurement ＞
                    boiler no.25       g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09            <0.001  <0.001
                                                                                                                               place                     unit     national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                    boiler no.26       g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09            <0.001  <0.001
                                                                                                                      east (morning･evening)             db             65               65             65             52      55
                    gas turbine no.1   g/㎥n      0.05             0.05           0.05            <0.001  <0.001
                                                                                                                      west (morning･evening)             db             65               65             65             47      56
                    gas turbine no.2   g/㎥n      0.05             0.05           0.05            <0.001  <0.001
                                                                                                                      south (morning･evening)            db             65               65             65             50      52
                    boiler no.11        ppm      260               260           260               82      82
                                                                                                                      north (morning･evening)            db             65               65             65             52      62
                    boiler no.12        ppm      260               260           260               72      72
                                                                                                                            east (night)                 db             60               60             60             52      53
                    boiler no.13        ppm      260               260           260               80      80
                                                                                                                            west (night)                 db             60               60             60             47      52
                    boiler no.14        ppm      260               260           260               70      70
                                                                                                                           south (night)                 db            60                60             60             48      50
                    boiler no.15        ppm      260               260           260               85      85
                                                                                                                           north (night)                 db            60                60             60             51      52
                    boiler no.16        ppm      260               260           260               81      81
                    boiler no.17        ppm      260               260           260               81      81
                    boiler no.18        ppm      260               260           260               76      76
          nox
                    boiler no.19        ppm      260               260           260               81      81
                    boiler no.20        ppm      260               260           260               83      83
                    boiler no.21        ppm      150               150           150               34      34
                    boiler no.22        ppm      150               150           150               38      38
                    boiler no.23        ppm      150               150           150               36      36
                    boiler no.24        ppm      150               150           150               38      38
                    boiler no.25        ppm      150               150           150               38      38
                    boiler no.26        ppm      150               150           150               36      36
    ＜ noise measurement ＞
              place                     unit     national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     north (morning･evening)            db             65               65             65             53      54
     east (morning･evening)             db             65               65             65             45      48
     south (morning･evening)            db             65               65             65             46      50
     west (morning･evening)             db             65               65             65             56      61
          north (night)                 db             60               60             60             53      56
           east (night)                 db             60               60             60             45      53
          south (night)                 db            60                60             60             45      49
           west (night)                 db            60                60             60             56      61
                                                                                                                 *1



    *1    the data excess by the noise of flume.




                                                                                                                          corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 42




53889312609.indd      42                                                                                                                                                                                                   2014/09/29   10:34:26

    gama plant                                                                                                        ogaki central plant
    ＜ no.1 wastewater measurement ＞                                                                                   ＜ wastewater measurement ＞
              item                      unit     national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum               item                   unit     national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     ph                                          5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                         7.2    7.6     ph                                          5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                         6.9    7.7
     bod                               mg/l          160                 15             5              3.8    9.7     bod                               mg/l          160                 15              5             5.1    10
     cod                               mg/l          160             regulation of
                                                                    total emission     10              2.7    8.3     cod                               mg/l          160             regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                     total emission
                                                                                                                                                                                                     regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                                    total emission      3.2    7.6
     ss                                mg/l          200                 30            10              4.1    12      ss                                mg/l          200                 30             30             2.7     8
     copper                            mg/l             3                 2             1             0.24   0.83     copper                            mg/l             3                 2              1            0.25   0.56
     lead                              mg/l           0.1               0.1          0.03            <0.01 <0.01      lead                              mg/l           0.1               0.1           0.03           <0.01 <0.01
     fluorine                          mg/l             8                 8             5             0.12    0.3     cyanide                           mg/l             1               0.1            0.1           <0.01 <0.01
     cyanide                           mg/l             1               0.1          0.03            <0.01 <0.01      n-h mineral oils                  mg/l             5                 5              5             <1     <1
     n-h mineral oils                  mg/l             5                 5           1.7              <1     <1      nitrogen                          mg/l          120                 60             60             2.7    4.7
     nitrogen                          mg/l          120                60             20             4.2     5.7     phosphorus                        mg/l            16                 8              8            0.05   0.05
     phosphorus                        mg/l           16                  8           2.7            0.06    0.13     boron and boron com-
                                                                                                                                                        mg/l          10           10            10          0.11         0.23
     boron and boron com-                                                                                             pounds
                                       mg/l          10           10            10          0.11         0.17
     pounds                                                                                                           ammonia and ammonium compounds,
                                                                                                                                                        mg/l         100          100           100           1.8          3.4
     ammonia and ammonium compounds,                                                                                  nitrite and nitrate compounds
                                       mg/l         100          100           100           3.3          5.0
     nitrite and nitrate compounds
                                                                                                                      ＜ air measurement ＞
    ＜ no.2 wastewater measurement ＞                                                                                       item       equipment           unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                 item                   unit     national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum                  b-1-1 boiler       g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
     ph                                          5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                        7.8      8                     b-1-2 boiler       g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
     bod                               mg/l          160                 15            10             0.6     1.7                    b-1-3 boiler       g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
     cod                               mg/l          160             regulation of
                                                                    total emission     10             1.0     2.4                    b-1-4 boiler       g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
     ss                                mg/l          200                 30            10             <1      <1                     b-1-5 boiler       g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                          soot
     n-h mineral oils                  mg/l             5                 5           1.7             <1      <1                     b-1-6 boiler       g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
     nitrogen                          mg/l          120                 60            20             1.0     1.3                    b-1-7 boiler       g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
     phosphorus                        mg/l           16                  8           2.7            <0.05 <0.05                     b-1-8 boiler       g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                     b-1-9 boiler       g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
    ＜ air measurement ＞                                                                                                              b-1-10 boiler      g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                     b-1-1 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              34      34
         item    equipment              unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                                                                                                                     b-1-2 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              29      29
                 boiler no.9 gas       g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                     b-1-3 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              34      34
                 boiler no.10 gas      g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                     b-1-4 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              40      40
                 boiler no.11 gas      g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                     b-1-5 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              36      36
        soot     boiler no.12 gas      g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                       nox
                                                                                                                                     b-1-6 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              31      31
     （oxygen boiler no.13 gas          g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                     b-1-7 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              37      37
     equivalent） boiler no.14 gas      g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                     b-1-8 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              29      29
                 boiler no.15 gas      g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                     b-1-9 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              33      33
                 boiler no.16 gas      g/㎥n       0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                     b-1-10 boiler       ppm      150               150           150              29      29
                 gas turbine           g/㎥n      0.05             0.05           0.05            0.004   0.007
                 boiler no.9 gas        ppm      150               150           150               49      49
                 boiler no.10 gas       ppm      150               150           150               51      51         ＜ noise measurement ＞
                 boiler no.11 gas       ppm      150               150           150               51      51                   place                    unit     national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
        nox      boiler no.12 gas       ppm      150               150           150               48      48         west (morning･evening)             db             50               50             50             40      46
     （oxygen boiler no.13 gas           ppm      150               150           150               25      25         north (morning･evening)            db             50               50             50             43      46
     equivalent） boiler no.14 gas       ppm      150               150           150               32      32         eastno.1 (morning･evening)         db             50               50             50             44      46
                 boiler no.15 gas       ppm      150               150           150               35      35         eastno.2 (morning･evening)         db             60               60             60             45      47
                 boiler no.16 gas       ppm      150               150           150               35      35         south (morning･evening)            db             60               60             60             39      43
                 gas turbine            ppm        70               70             70              36      41              west (night)                  db             45               45             45             36      38
                                                                                                                           north (night)                 db             45               45             45             41      44
    ＜ noise measurement ＞                                                                                                east no.1 (night)               db            45                45             45             43      44
                                                                                                                         east no.2 (night)               db            50                50             50             43      45
              place                     unit     national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                                                                                                           south (night)                 db            50                50             50             37      43
     east (morning･evening)             db             65               65             65             46      49
     south (morning･evening)            db             65               65             65             49      53
     west (morning･evening)             db             65               65             65             57      59
           east (night)                 db             60               60             60             45      48
          south (night)                 db             60               60             60             48      51
           west (night)                 db            60                60             60             57      58




                                                                                                                          corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 43




53889312609.indd      43                                                                                                                                                                                                   2014/09/29   10:34:26

    ogaki-kita plant                                                                                                                      godo plant
    ＜ total wastewater measurement ＞                                                                                                      ＜ wastewater measurement - west ＞
                       item                                unit      national standard town standard voluntary standard average maximum            item             unit   national standard town standard voluntary standard average maximum
     ph                                                              5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                        7.3     7.9     ph                               5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6                        7.9     8.6
     bod                                                   mg/l          160                 30             20            4.4     9.8     bod                       mg/l       160                 15             15            0.8     1.6
     cod                                                   mg/l          160             regulation of
                                                                                        total emission
                                                                                                        regulation of
                                                                                                       total emission    11.3     24      cod                       mg/l       160             regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                              total emission
                                                                                                                                                                                                              regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                                             total emission     3.5     5.8
     ss                                                    mg/l          200                 30             25            2.9      7      ss                        mg/l       200                 30             30            1.8      5
     copper                                                mg/l             3                 2              1           0.18    0.04     n-h mineral oils          mg/l          5                 5              5            <1      <1
     fluorine                                              mg/l             8                 8              8           <0.1    <0.1     nitrogen                  mg/l       120             regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                              total emission      60            1.1     3.3
     phenol                                                mg/l             5               0.4            0.4           <0.1    <0.1     phosphorus                mg/l         16            regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                              total emission       8           <0.05   0.06
     n-h mineral oils                                      mg/l             5                 5              4            <1      <1
     nitrogen                                              mg/l          120                60             50             15      56      ＜ wastewater measurement - east ＞
     phosphorus                                            mg/l           16                  8              7            2.2     7.4              item             unit   national standard town standard voluntary standard average maximum
     boron and boron com-                                                                                                                 ph                               5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6                        7.4     7.7
                                                           mg/l          10           10            10           0.1          0.1
     pounds                                                                                                                               bod                       mg/l       160                 15             15            8.8    15.0
     ammonia and ammonium compounds,                                                                                                      cod                       mg/l       160             regulation of  regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12.9     19
                                                           mg/l         100          100           100           12            45
                                                                                                                                                                                              total emission total emission
     nitrite and nitrate compounds                                                                                                        ss                        mg/l       200                 30             30            5.5     14
                                                                                                                                          n-h mineral oils          mg/l          5                 5              5            <1      <1
    ＜ air measurement ＞                                                                                                                   nitrogen                  mg/l       120             regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                              total emission      60           20.8     37
         item         equipment                            unit      national standard town standard voluntary standard average maximum   phosphorus                mg/l         16            regulation of
                                                                                                                                                                                              total emission       8            1.9     2.8
     hydrogen sulfide vacuum incinerator                   ppm           0.02            0.02            0.02 <0.0005 <0.0005
                                                                                                                                          ＜ noise measurement ＞
    ＜ noise measurement ＞                                                                                                                          place            unit   national standard town standard voluntary standard average maximum
                      place                                unit      national standard town standard voluntary standard average maximum   east (morning･evening)    db           65              65              65             41      48
     north (morning･evening)                               db              60              60              60             47      64      south (morning･evening)   db           65              65              65             44      55
                                                                                                                                     *1


     east (morning･evening)                                db              60              60              60             47      65      west (morning･evening)    db           65              65              65             45      51
                                                                                                                                     *1


     south (morning･evening)                               db              60              60              60             48      60      north (morning･evening)   db           65              65              65             42      47
     western angle of building d (morning･evening)         db              60              60              60             48      64            east (night)        db           60              60              60             43      53
                                                                                                                                     *1


     west (morning･evening)                                db              60              60              60             50      61           south (night)        db           60              60              60             42      50
                                                                                                                                     *1


     graveyard (morning･evening)                           db              60              60              60             44      60            west (night)        db          60               60              60             45      52
     graveyard west (morning･evening)                      db              50              50              50             44      63           north (night)        db          60               60              60             44      54
                                                                                                                                     *1


              north (night)                                db              50              50              50             45      53
                                                                                                                                     *1


               east (night)                                db              50              50              50             43      53
                                                                                                                                     *1


              south (night)                                db              50              50              50             45      51
                                                                                                                                     *1


     western angle of building d (morning･evening)         db              50              50              50             46      53
                                                                                                                                     *1


              west (night)                                 db              50              50              50             49      54
                                                                                                                                     *1


         graveyard (night)                                 db              50              50              50             42      47
     graveyard west (night)                                db              45              45              45             42      47
    *1      the data excess by the sound of insects and frogs.


    kinuura plant
    ＜ wastewater measurement ＞
               item         unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     ph                             5.8 ～ 8.6                    6.0 ～ 8.4            7.2     7.8
     bod                    mg/l      160                              20             11      28
     cod                    mg/l      160                              30             11      21
     ss                     mg/l      200                              50             12      40
     copper                 mg/l        3                             0.2            0.02    0.02
     total chromium         mg/l        2                               1            0.02    0.02
     fluorine               mg/l        8                             3.0             0.1     0.1
     phenol                 mg/l        5                             0.2             0.1     0.1
     n-h mineral oils       mg/l        5                               1              1       1
     nitrogen               mg/l      120                              30             11      11
     phosphorus             mg/l       16                               3            0.52    0.52
     soluble manganese      mg/l       10                               3             0.6     0.6
     zinc                   mg/l        2                               1            0.04    0.04
     solubility iron        mg/l       10                               3             1.2     1.2
     coliform bacilli     piece/cm 3,000                           1,000              82      82
                                  3


     boron and boron com-
                            mg/l       10                               3             0.1     0.1
     pounds
     ammonia and ammonium compounds,
                                                          mg/l          100                         50           12            12
     nitrite and nitrate compounds

    ＜ air measurement ＞
          item              equipment                      unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                           once-through boiler no.1       g/m n      0.3                             0.3            0.001   0.001
                                                              3


                           once-through boiler no.3       g/m n      0.3                             0.3            0.002   0.002
                                                              3

          soot
                           once-through boiler no.4 gas   g/m n      0.1                             0.1            0.001   0.001
                                                              3


                           once-through boiler no.5 gas   g/m n      0.1                             0.1            0.001   0.001
                                                              3


                           once-through boiler no.1        ppm      260                             100               64      84
                           once-through boiler no.3        ppm      260                             100               74      76
          nox
                           once-through boiler no.4 gas    ppm      150                             100               29      29
                           once-through boiler no.5 gas    ppm      150                             100               22      22
                           once-through boiler no.1       m n/h     0.13                            0.13             0.02    0.03
                                                            3

           sox
                           once-through boiler no.3       m n/h     0.13                            0.13             0.02    0.02
                                                            3




    ＜ noise measurement ＞
             place                                         unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     east (morning･evening)                                db              65                              65             57      60


                                                                                                                                             corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 44




53889312609.indd              44                                                                                                                                                                                                    2014/09/29   10:34:27

    ibiden engineering co., ltd                                                                              ibiden electronics (beijing) co., ltd.
    ＜ wastewater measurement ＞                                                                               ＜ wastewater measurement ＞
               item              unit   national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum              item                unit           city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     ph                                 5.0 ～ 9.0 5.0 ～ 9.0 5.0 ～ 9.0   7.1     7.5                          ph                                              6～9          6.2 ～ 8.5          7.5            7.6
     bod                         mg/l     600       600       600       15.1     45                          bod                            mg/l             300            270              33             34
     cod                         mg/l       -         -         -        8.1     43                          cod                            mg/l             500            450             162            176
     ss                          mg/l     600       600       600         6      10                          ss                             mg/l             400            360              34             49
     copper                      mg/l       3         3         3       0.02    0.05                         copper                         mg/l               1             0.5            0.33           0.38
     lead                        mg/l      0.1       0.1       0.1     <0.01   <0.01                         cyanide                        mg/l               1             0.5            0.03           0.06
     chromium                    mg/l       2         2         2      <0.02   <0.02                         ni                             mg/l              0.5           0.45            nd             nd
     hexavalent chromium         mg/l      0.5       0.5       0.5     <0.02   <0.02                         n-h mineral oils               mg/l              10              9             nd             0.1
     fluorine                    mg/l       8         8         8      <0.1      0.4                         animal oil and vegetable oil   mg/l             100             50             1.8            2.6
     cyanide                     mg/l       1         1         1      <0.01   <0.01
     1･1･1 trichloroethane       mg/l       3         3         3     <0.0005 <0.0005                        ＜ air measurement ＞
     1･1･2 trichloroethane       mg/l     0.06      0.06      0.06    <0.0006 <0.0006                                   item                unit           city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     1.3 dichloropropanes        mg/l     0.02      0.02      0.02    <0.0002 <0.0002                        h2so4                          mg/㎥                5            4.5            0.49           1.89
     1･2 dichloroethane          mg/l     0.04      0.04      0.04    <0.0004 <0.0004                                       scrubber
                                                                                                             hcl                            mg/㎥               30             25            1.91           2.76
     1･1 dichloroethylene        mg/l       1         1         1     <0.002 <0.002                                         emissions
                                                                                                             hcn                            mg/㎥               0.5           0.45           0.06           0.09
     cis- 1･2 dichloroethylene   mg/l      0.4       0.4       0.4    <0.004 <0.004                          ammonia                        mg/㎥               30             25            0.32           0.33
     trichloroethylene           mg/l      0.3       0.3       0.3    <0.002 <0.002                                        deodorization
                                                                                                             hydrogen
     tetrachloroethylene         mg/l      0.1       0.1       0.1    <0.0005 <0.0005                                         tower         mg/㎥                 5            4.5           0.02           0.02
                                                                                                             sulfide
     dichloromethane             mg/l      0.2       0.2       0.2    <0.002   0.042                         soot                           mg/㎥                30             25           2.50           5.50
     carbon tetrachloride        mg/l     0.02      0.02      0.02    <0.0002 <0.0002                        toluene                        mg/㎥                25             20           0.06           0.08
     cadmium                     mg/l      0.1       0.1       0.1     <0.01   <0.01                                        air exhaust
     phenol                      mg/l       5         5         5      <0.1      0.2                         nmhc                           mg/㎥                80             70           1.75           2.09
     n-h mineral oils            mg/l       5         5         5        <1      <1
     arsenic                     mg/l      0.1       0.1       0.1     <0.01   <0.01                         ＜ noise measurement ＞
     alkyl mercury               mg/l      nd        nd        nd       nd      nd
                                                                                                                        time                unit           city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     organic phosphorus          mg/l       1         1         1      <0.01   <0.01
                                                                                                                      daytime               db（a）               65           64.5             55           64.8
     polyhalogenated biphenyl    mg/l    0.003     0.003     0.003 <0.0005 <0.0005
                                                                                                                      nightime              db（a）               55           54.5             51           54.7
     zinc                        mg/l       2         2         2      0.06    0.24
     manganese                   mg/l      10        10        10      0.13    0.76
     benzene
     boron and boron compounds
                                 mg/l
                                 mg/l
                                           0.1
                                           10
                                                     0.1
                                                     10
                                                               0.1
                                                               10
                                                                      <0.001 <0.001
                                                                       <0.1    <0.1
                                                                                                             ibiden philippines,inc.
     1,4-dioxane                 mg/l      0.5       0.5       0.5     <0.05   <0.05                         ＜ wastewater measurement ＞
                                                                                                                               item                 unit   industrial park standard voluntary standard average maximum
    ibiden jushi co., ltd                                                                                    ph
                                                                                                             bod                                    mg/l
                                                                                                                                                            6.5-9.0
                                                                                                                                                             500
                                                                                                                                                                           6.7-8.8
                                                                                                                                                                            400
                                                                                                                                                                                             7.6
                                                                                                                                                                                             85
                                                                                                                                                                                                            8.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                           409
    ＜ air measurement ＞                                                                                      cod                                    mg/l     800            700              25             50
                                                                                                             total suspended solids, tss            mg/l     350            280               6             34
        item       equipment     unit   national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                                                                                             ss                                     mg/l      0.5            0.4            0.06           0.50
                   boiler no.1             0.3          0.3           0.24        0.009         0.011
        soot                     g/㎥n                                                                        copper                                 mg/l       1             0.8            0.24           0.67
                   boiler no.3             0.3          0.3           0.24        0.005         0.005
                                                                                                             lead                                   mg/l      0.3           0.24            nd             nd
                   gas turbine              70           70            60           45            50
                                                                                                             chromium (hexavalent)                  mg/l      0.1           0.08            nd             nd
        nox        boiler no.1   ppm       180          180           144           55            61
                                                                                                             cyanide                                mg/l      0.2           0.16            nd             nd
                   boiler no.3             180          180           144           41            51
                                                                                                             nickel                                 mg/l      0.5            0.4            nd             nd
                   boiler no.1             7.07         7.07          5.65         0.41          0.63
         sox                     ㎥n/h                                                                        color                                  mg/l     150            120              42             89
                   boiler no.3             3.68         3.68          2.95         0.05          0.09
                                                                                                             oil & grease                           mg/l       5              4             0.1             1.6
                                                                                                             iron (dissolved)                       mg/l      10              8             nd             nd
    ibiden bussan co., ltd                                                                                   manganese (dissolved)
                                                                                                             formaldehyde
                                                                                                                                                    mg/l
                                                                                                                                                    mg/l
                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                               1
                                                                                                                                                                             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                             0.8
                                                                                                                                                                                           0.07
                                                                                                                                                                                           0.095
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.54
                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.90
    ＜ wastewater measurement ＞
               item              unit   national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum   ＜ air measurement ＞
     ph                                 5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.1 ～ 8.3              7.3           7.6                           item                 unit   national standard voluntary standard average maximum
     bod                         mg/l     160       100        80                   3.0           7.3        nox                                    mg/㎥     2,000          1,600            731          1,026
     cod                         mg/l     160       160       128                   5.2           11         sox                                    mg/㎥     1,500          1,200             26            50
     ss                          mg/l     200        90        72                   3.0            7         particulate matter (pm)                mg/㎥      150            120             32            86
     n-h mineral oils            mg/l      10        10         8                   <1            <1         carbon monoxide (co)                   mg/㎥      500            400             145           224
     nitrogen                    mg/l     120       120        96                   2.1           8.8        copper (cu)                            mg/㎥      100             80             0.4           6.9
     phosphorus                  mg/l      16        16       12.8                 0.06          0.05
                                                                                                             ＜ noise measurement ＞
    ＜ air measurement ＞                                                                                                      time                   unit   national standard voluntary standard average maximum
        item       equipment     unit   national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum   morning (5am - 9am)                     db         65             56             53             54
                   boiler no.1             0.3           0.3          0.24        0.007         0.007        daytime (9am - 6 pm)                    db         70             57             53             55
                   boiler no.2             0.3           0.3          0.24        0.007         0.008        evening (6 pm - 10 pm)                  db         65             55             53             54
        soot       boiler no.3   g/㎥n      0.3           0.3          0.24        0.005         0.005        nighttime (10 pm - 5 am)                db         60             56             52             52
                   boiler no.4             0.3           0.3          0.24        0.011         0.011
                   boiler no.5             0.3           0.3          0.24        0.008         0.008
                   boiler no.1             180           180          114           48            70
                   boiler no.2             180           180          114           25            36
        nox        boiler no.3   ppm       180           180          114           62            77
                   boiler no.4             180           180          114           35            55
                   boiler no.5             180           180          114           29            47




                                                                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 45




53889312609.indd   45                                                                                                                                                                                       2014/09/29   10:34:27

    ibiden electronics malaysia sdn. bhd.                                                                                       ibiden dpf france s.a.s.
    ＜ wastewater measurement ＞                                                                                                  ＜ air measurement ＞
                          item                         unit       national standard voluntary standard average maximum                               item                           unit      national standard voluntary standard average maximum
     ph                                                             5.5-9.0        6.2-8.3           7.4            7.9         nitrogen oxides           sintering l3 (curing oven) mg/㎥       100           100          <12
     bod                                              mg/l            50             50               6             21          (nox)                     sintering l4 (curing oven) mg/㎥       100           100          <12
     cod                                              mg/l           200            100              58            136
                                                                                                                                sulfur dioxide            sintering l3 (curing oven) mg/㎥       20            20           <3
     total suspended solids, tss                      mg/l           100            100              18             55
                                                                                                                                (sox)              sintering l4 (curing oven)      mg/㎥          20            20           7
     copper                                           mg/l             1             0.5            0.20           0.49
     lead                                             mg/l            0.5            0.5            0.00           0.02                            sintering l3 (curing oven)      mg/㎥          20            20          13
                                                                                                                                cov nm
     chromium (hexavalent)                            mg/l           0.05           0.05            0.01           0.01                            sintering l4 (curing oven)      mg/㎥          20            20           3
     cyanide                                          mg/l            0.1            0.1            0.03           0.08         formaldehyde ,cho, sintering l3 (curing oven)      mg/㎥           5            5          <0.01
     nickel                                           mg/l             1              1             0.03           0.07         acetaldehyde       sintering l4 (curing oven)        mg/㎥         5            5          <0.01
     color                                            admi           200            200              31             61
                                                                                                                                methanol                  sintering l3 (curing oven) mg/㎥        10            10         <0.06
     oil & grease                                     mg/l            10             10              5.0            6.0
                                                                                                                                ch3oh                     sintering l4 (curing oven) mg/㎥        10            10         <0.06
     iron (dissolved)                                 mg/l             5              5             0.14           0.52
     manganese (dissolved)                            mg/l             1              1             0.09           0.23                                   sintering l3 (curing oven) mg/㎥        10            10         <0.02
                                                                                                                                methylethylketone
     formaldehyde                                     mg/l             2              2             0.14           0.31                                   sintering l4 (curing oven) mg/㎥        10            10         <0,09

    ＜ noise measurement ＞                                                                                                       ＜ noise measurement ＞ * 1
                         time                          unit       national standard voluntary standard average maximum                               time                           unit      national standard voluntary standard average maximum
     daytime (7 am - 10 pm)                             db             70             70             65                         daytime (9am - 5 pm)                  point 1      db (a)        50            50           49
     nightime (10 pm - 7 am)                            db             60             60             60                         daytime (9am - 5 pm)                  point 2      db (a)        52            52           52
                                                                                                                                daytime (9am - 5 pm)                  point 3      db (a)        52            52           49
    ibiden porzellanfabrik frauenthal gmbh                                                                                      nightime (5 pm - 9 am)                point 1      db (a)        42            42           42
                                                                                                                                nightime (5 pm - 9 am)                   point 2     db (a)      46            46           48
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 *2

    ＜ wastewater measurement ＞
                                                                                                                                nightime (5 pm - 9 am)                   point 3     db (a)      49            49           47
                          item                         unit       national standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                                                                                                                emergence area - ambient - point n° 4 (in neighbour) db (a)       5             5           1.0
     ph                                                             6.5-8.5        6.5-8.5           8.1            8.1
     temperature                                       ℃              30             30              21             21          emergence area - residual - point n°4 (in neighbour) db (a)       4             4           1.0
     chemical oxygen demand                           mg/l            80             80              73             77          *1 t
                                                                                                                                    he measurement is to be conducted every three years. the figures are the results
     total suspended solids, tss                      mg/l            70             70               6              9             in fiscal 2012.
     iron (dissolved)                                 mg/l             2              2             0.90           1.20         *2 noise control was completed.
     aluminium                                        mg/l             2              2             0.74           1.08
     ammonium                                         mg/l            10             10             3.39           6.78
     fluoride                                         mg/l            20             20             0.89           1.40

    <air measurement>* 1
                          item                         unit       national standard voluntary standard average maximum
     nitrogen oxides (nox)                          mg/n㎥             350            120             38             77
     sulfur dioxide (sox)                           mg/n㎥             350             50              1              1
     particulate matter (pm)                        mg/n㎥              20             20              1              2
     carbon monoxide (co)                           mg/n㎥             100            100              5              8
     ammonia                                        mg/n㎥              30             10             0.8            1.8
        he measurement is to be conducted every three years. the figures are the results
    *1 t
       in fiscal 2012.

    ＜ noise measurement>
                         time                          unit       national standard voluntary standard average maximum
     daytime (6am - 10 pm)                              db                            55             52             57
     nightime (10 pm - 6 am)                            db                            45             49             54


    ibiden hungary kft.
    ＜ wastewater measurement ＞
                 item                   unit    national standard industrial park standard voluntary standard average maximum
     ph                                         6.5-10.0        6.5-10.0        6.5-10.0            8.7             8.9
     electrical conductivity            μs/cm    2,500           2,500           2,500            1,495           1,685
     volume of sediment                  ml/l       -               -               -              <5              <5
     available chlorine                 mg/l       30              30              30               2.6             4.9
     chemical oxygen demand             mg/l     1,000           1,000           1,000             198             366
     biochemical oxygen demand          mg/l      500             500             500              114             222
     total inorganic nitrogen           mg/l      120             120             120               30              53
     total nitrogen                     mg/l      150             150             150               54              55
     ammonium                           mg/l      100             100             100               38              68
     total phosphorus                   mg/l       20              20              20              3.4             6.1
     sulphate                           mg/l      400             400             400               32              39
     organic solvent extract (grav.)    mg/l       50              50              50               24              45
     phenols                            mg/l       10              10              10              0.03            0.05
     fe                                 mg/l       20              20              20              0.5             0.6
     mn                                 mg/l        5               5               5              0.03            0.05
     sulphide                           mg/l        1               1               1              0.03            0.03
     total dissolved solid              mg/l     2,500           2,500           2,500            1,029           1,106
     total solids                       mg/l     2,500           2,500           2,500            1,116           1,268
     fluoride                           mg/l       50              50              50              0.3             0.4
     total hydrocarbons (tph, c5-c40)   μg/l        -               -               -               14              26
     tars                               mg/l       5               5               5               1.6             2.0

    ＜ noise measurement ＞
                 time                   unit    national standard industrial park standard voluntary standard average maximum
     daytime (6am - 22 pm)               db          50             50              50              41             45
     nightime (22 pm - 6 am)             db          40             40              40              41             45
                                                                                                                     *1



    *1 noise prevention measure has been completed.




                                                                                                                                     corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 46




53889312609.indd        46                                                                                                                                                                                                              2014/09/29   10:34:27

    we are pressing ahead with a global field of view to implement activities to contribute to the regions where
    we are deploying centers of business operations




           philosophy for social contribution and promotional structure

    basic policy
    we aim to contribute to local communities by taking advantage of our unique corporate characteristics, in-
    cluding our capacity to improve living environments and to offer opportunities for personal development. we
    take part in and support groups involved in activities of this nature. we also undertake our own community
    projects across the globe, tailoring them to local cultures and customs, and earning the trust of the interna-
    tional community.
                         focusing on our priority areas, which are “protecting the global environment,” “fostering the next genera-
    tion,” “contributing to social welfare and local communities,” and “disaster relief activities,” we promote the
    social contribution activities of the ibiden group, and at the same time, we encourage our employees to vol-
    untarily participate in non-profit social contribution activities.


    promotional structure of social contribution activities
    we set up social contribution contacts in the general affairs division as a specialized organization in fiscal
    year 2008 and have been drafting policies and plans and organizing and operating activities. in fiscal year
    2011, we established “social contribution rules.” they stipulate which activities are of priority and are to be
    conducted by the domestic ibiden group, the formation of the social contribution committee to facilitate
    smooth social contribution efforts, and the establishment of the social contribution fund to support the com-
    pany’ s social contribution activities and social contribution activity groups in which our employees participate.
                         the social contribution committee, which consists of representatives of group companies in japan, ap-
    proves annual activities for social contribution and operates and manages the social contribution fund. the
    committee also examines the details related to the recognition and rewarding of collaborative activities with
    other groups promoting social contribution, such as npos and ngos, and employees’ volunteer activities.


    diagram of social contribution promotion system


                                                                                 society (stakeholders)
     social contribution activities conducted




                                                                                                                                                               social contribution activities conducted
             by the group companies




                                                 social contribution contacts          plants and
                                                                                                                                     employees
                                                                                                                                                                             by employees




                                                in the general aﬀairs division    the group companies

                                                 organization appointed to         responsible for the                         volunteer activities of
                                                promote social contribution       activities of each plant                          employees
                                                  and volunteer activities         and the companies
                                                                                                                  support




                                                     the ibiden group social contribution committee

                                                 deliberations of the activity and determination of the budget




                                                                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 47




53889312609.indd                                47                                                                                                                                                        2014/09/29   10:34:27

    record of social contribution activities
    the ibiden group’ s social contribution activities are based on the four priority pillars.

        principal                                                                                                      social contribution
                                                          original program
        activities                                                                                                           system


      global            forest preservation                       community cleanup
      environ-          activities                                activities




                                                                                                                                                                     social contribution fund volunteer recognition program
      mental            forest preservation activi-               cleanup activities regularly
      protection        ties implemented through                  conducted in communities
      activities        the “ibiden’s forest”                     around workplaces




                                                                                                                         social contribution fund operation system
                        product-making                            plant tour
      activities        experience
      for fostering     hydroelectric power plant visit           inviting local students to a
      the next          and product-making experi-                plant tour at ibiden hunga-
      generation        ence through the ibiden tour              ry
                        promoting learning from water

      activities
      contributing      in-house blood                            sports event
      to social         donation
      welfare and       cooperation through ac-                   holding the ibiden cup
      local             cepting blood donation                    soccer tournament etc.
      communi-          buses at plants
      ties



      disaster          support for disaster
      relief            victims
      activities        fund-raising campaigns




      protecting the global environment

    grounded in the values of harmony with nature, we are conducting activities that lead to environmental pro-
    tection globally.

    forest building activities: “ibiden’s forest”
    in fiscal year 2008, we embarked on a forest building
    initiative as part of our global environmental protec-
    tion activities. this activity takes place chiefly in
    higashi-yokoyama, the place where ibiden was
    founded, and where the company operates its initial
    hydroelectric power generation business. over the
    next 10 years, we will be planting trees, thinning the
    forests and conducting improvement cutting in the
    district, with an approximate total area of 40 hectares              ibiden not only engages in reforestation projects to stop glob-
    in the town of ibigawa. together with the local public,              al warming but also provides a place where employees, their
                                                                         families and local residents can experience forest building.
    employees and their family members, we will continue
    to carry out sustainability activities aimed at maintain-
    ing harmony with nature.
        in collaboration with the local authorities, its resi-
    dents, and nonprofit organizations (npos), we
    undertake projects ranging from nature walks to com-
    munity exchange using the forests and local cultures.
        we held activities 25 times over a six-year period
    until fiscal year 2013, with the participation of a total
    of 2,100 people (excluding staff members), and plant-
                                                                         in collaboration with local residents, we hold hands-on classes
    ed approximately 1,0 0 0 trees. we will continue to                  to experience tree thinning and mountain village life as part of
    make efforts to build forests loved by communities                   tree-planting and autumn forest activities.
    while widening the circle of participants.
                                                                               corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 48




53889312609.indd   48                                                                                                                                                                                        2014/09/29       10:34:31

    [planting activities worldwide]
    <ibiden electronics (beijing) co., ltd.: “tree-planting”>
    in fiscal year 2013, we conducted tree-planting activities at the eastern site of the first
    plant for the fourth consecutive year, including in the beijing suburbs. some 100 em-
    ployees planted 40 willow stakes. we will continue to implement these activities in
    the years ahead.

    <ibiden hungary kft.: tree-planting and environmental protection learning>                tree-planting
    in cooperation with employees and students at the local elementary school that have
    enjoyed deepened exchanges for many years, we planted three maple trees. subsequently, we held environ-
    mental protection workshops on the importance of trees and their role in the ecological cycle.


    [actions for a cleaner community]
    since 1992, the ibiden group's domestic compa-
    nies have actively conducted community cleanup
    and beautification activities in the areas where they
    operate. in fiscal year 2013, more than 7,000 of our
    employees took part in the group's actions. in ad-
    dition, a number of the group's alumni and
    employees serve as volunteer crew for cleanup ac-
    tivities organized by municipal governments (such
    as the city of ogaki) and local npos.                    clean-river action                  group alumni’ s environmen-
                                                                                                 tal beautification action
    [participation in the co2 reduction / light-down japan 2013]
    we take part in the co2 reduction / light-down (i.e. lights-off) campaign being run by the ministry of the en-
    vironment as a means to stop global warming. during the campaign period, the lights for the rooftop
    signboard at our aoyanagi plant were switched off at certain times.



      fostering the next generation

    we are promoting activities for the development of young people to foster the next generation for the future.

    [ibiden tour – learning from “water” ]
    since 2010, we have been conducting two-day and one-night tours to support
    education about the power of nature and electricity through a visit to the hi-
    gashi-yokoyama power plant, which has been operating since our
    establishment, and product-making experience.
    in fiscal year 2013, 10 participating school students and their parents, compris-
    ing 24 people, enjoyed experiences to create newspaper while asking our
    employees what they were interested in to better understand the power of na-
    ture (water) and hydroelectric power.
                                                                                               ibiden tour
    [ibiden electronics (beijing) co., ltd. “school support activities” ]
    since fiscal year 2013, we have donated educational equipment to improve
    the educational environment of the local school. in fiscal year 2013, we donat-
    ed writing materials, basketball baskets, as well as desks and chairs for the
    cafeteria.

    [ibiden hungary kft.: plant visits]
    ibiden hungary kft. has given plant tours to students including at a local high
    school and university as part of ongoing activities, and these were held three
    times in fiscal year 2013. student visitors enjoyed opportunities to view pro-
    duction lines in operation and to develop a better understanding of our
    production and products.



                                                                                               plant visits
                                                                                               in ibiden hungary kft.




                                                                  corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 49




53889312609.indd   49                                                                                                      2014/09/29   10:34:31

      contributing to social welfare and local communities

    we are contributing to social welfare and local communities to cooperate with local communities as well as
    to facilitate local development.

    [company blood donation drives in japan and overseas]
                                                                   the domestic group companies has registered as
                                                                   a japan red cross blood donation supporter,
                                                                   running blood donation drives to provide a steady
                                                                   supply of donated blood. for fiscal year 2013, we
                                                                   set up eight sites within the group in japan in ad-
                                                                   dition to the four sites organized by our overseas
                                                                   group companies (for a total of 12), and ran a to-
    ibiden electronics malaysia           ibiden dpf france        tal of 17 events with 847 participants overall.

    [participation in the mikoshi parade in the jumangoku festival in ogaki]
    the ibiden group is a regular participant in the
    kigyo mikoshi (portable shire) parade section of
    the jumangoku festival hosted by the city of
    ogaki every october.
       more than 100 employees have participated
    in the festival each year. we strongly advocate
    local revitalization efforts, and support the “festi-
    val spirit” together with local residents. moreover,
    ibiden's scope of involvement expanded in fiscal        the jumangoku festival         clean up campaign
    year 2009, when its employees initiated cleanup
    activities after the festival around the thoroughfare leading to the main train station.

    [ibiden cup youth soccer tournament]
                                  we hold a youth soccer tournament four times a year to support local revital-
                                  ization and development of young people through sports. in the fiscal year
                                  2013, the oldest boys' a-class tournament was held for the 22nd time, with
                                  participants comprising 24 teams from gifu prefecture as well as aichi, mie,
                                  and shiga prefectures. participants exceeded more than 2,000 at all tourna-
                                  ments.


    the oldest boys’ a-class tournament

    [support for the ibigawa marathon]
    the ibiden group serves as an official sponsor of the ibigawa marathon, a
    sporting event that takes place in the town of ibigawa-cho each november. to
    support the event, we make parking spots available at our plant in ibigawa-
    cho, and recruit volunteers from within for positions including staff for traffic
    control or water station.

    [supporting the ibiden cup moms' volleyball tournament]
    the group's social contribution committee works with the seinou regional
    moms' volleyball association to host annual the ibiden cup moms' volleyball               moms’ volleyball tournament
    tournament. approximately 400 members from 28 teams took part in the
    eighth annual tournament in fiscal year 2013.
       the company's women's volleyball team also hosts social events and skills
    workshops with mothers as well as children from local elementary, middle, and
    high schools to promote regional community revitalization through volleyball.

    [ibiden hungary kft.: donating personal computers to local elementary
    school and support organization to physically challenged people]
    employees rebuilt four personal computers using outmoded ones from the of-
    fice and donated two of each to local elementary school and support organi-               ibiden hungary kft.
                                                                                              donating personal computers
    zations to physically challenged people. this effort helped to computerize pa-
    per documents for the elementary school and support the independence of
    physically challenged people.

                                                                  corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 50




53889312609.indd   50                                                                                                      2014/09/29   10:34:33

      disaster relief activities

    we implement disaster relief activities to contribute to the recovery and reconstruction of people's lives and social in-
    frastructure in the communities.

    examples of disaster relief activities
    [ibiden philippines inc. supported victims of the central bohol island earthquake]
    to support victims of the large-scale earthquake that occurred on bohol island in
    the philippines and to assist with the recovery effort, our employees volunteered to
    collect donations and goods for delivery to local support organizations.
    • donations totaled 55,800 philippine pesos.
    • goods collected, such as clothing and medicine, totaled 30 boxes.
                                                                                                   aid supplies donated by ibiden
                                                                                                   philippines inc
    [ibiden philippines inc. supported the victims of typhoon yolanda]
    the path of typhoon yolanda cut directly through
    the central philippines, causing a level of devasta-
    tion never seen before. to support victims and
    assist with the recovery effort, all of our employees
    were encouraged to make a donation in kind such
    as clothing, non-perishable food, and medicine or
    host fund-raising events. all proceeds were deliv-
    ered to local support organizations. the ibiden
    group also contributed financially to the cause.         aid supplies donated by ibiden philippines inc
    • donations totaled 856,889 philippine pesos.
    • the ibiden group's contribution totaled ¥1.5 million.
    • supplies collected, such as clothing, non-perishable food, water, and medicine, totaled 135 boxes.

    [ibiden electronics (beijing) co., ltd. supported earthquake victims in ya'an city, sichuan, china]
    employees collected donations and goods for delivery to local organizations to support the victims of the ya'an earth-
    quake, which occurred in china's sichuan province, and to help with the recovery effort.
    • donations totaled 40,300 yuan.



      encouraging volunteerism

    we are promoting social contribution and volunteer activities to encourage our employees’ voluntary, self-motivated
    participation in volunteer activities.

    [volunteer encouragement program]
    ibiden and its domestic group companies provide special leave for volunteers (a special paid leave of up to 7 days a
    year) as a volunteering encouragement program. in addition, the social contribution committee grants awards to em-
    ployees according to our internal rules.

    [“chovola activities”: simple actions to start volunteering]
    we began hosting small, casual volunteer activities (“chovola” activities) as part of our effort to foster an atmosphere
    where employees can volunteer without making a very large commitment of time. the company as well as its do-
    mestic group companies organized collection events for used stamps and postcards in fiscal year 2008 as well as
    bottle cap drives in fiscal year 2009, and the proceeds were given to local charity organizations and nonprofit organi-
    zations. thus far, we have collected more than 20 kg of used stamps and 800 used postcards/unused stamps. the
    total for the bottle cap drive exceeded 2,100 kg.

    [synchronized action between overseas bases and japan]
    in fiscal year 2009, the company began hosting fund-raising activities during the
    year-end/new year period, targeting former and current employees in japan,
    collecting unwanted books and cds for donation of the proceeds. in fiscal year
    2013, ibiden worked with both ibiden electronics malaysia sdn. bhd. and
    ibiden philippines, inc. to donate to local children's help organizations as well as
    environmental protection agencies. ibiden electronics malaysia sent its employ-
    ees to present the group with the donations collected from within the company
    and in japan, together with essential goods that children need. eleven employ-
    ee volunteers then spent time to meet and socialize with the children while               ibiden electronics malaysia, dona-
    working on arts and crafts projects.                                                      tion event
                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 51




53889312609.indd   51                                                                                                           2014/09/29   10:34:33

      quality management that supports customers-first values

    basic approach
    by consistently developing cutting-edge technologies, ibiden contributes to the creation of a comfortable it
    society as well as a society where cars and nature coexist through the proposal and supply of high-value-
    added products. based on its “customer first” policy, the group meets the needs of customers through unique
    technologies and designs that take into account the global environment. we understand that our greatest
    mission is to consistently supply safe and reliable products. we seek to achieve a high level of customer
    satisfaction by putting customer needs at the forefront of our product development process, accepting only
    the highest quality at the design stage, incorporating mechanisms that ensure quality into the product-making
    stage, and creating a management system that provides the necessary support.

    the group’ s basic policy for the quality of electronics operation: based on the concept of quality first, we will
    achieve customer satisfaction by clearly grasping customer needs and producing and providing reliable
    products through our unique technological capabilities.
       the group’ s basic policy for the quality of ceramics operation: through ibi-techno, we will incorporate
    customers’ real and potential needs and add values to such needs while striving to provide moving
    experiences to customers through our product-making, which continually gives top priority to quality.



    quality assurance system
    the ibiden group has a quality assurance organization at each
    operation, with the executive officer as a main officer in charge of
    company-wide quality assurance.
       to benefit our customers and the community with quality
    products, we conduct design reviews and hold quality assurance
    meetings to study the design and specifications at each stage of the
    manufacturing process, from the development of cutting-edge
    technologies, through product planning and design, to mass
    production. furthermore, to improve quality, we offer guidance and
    audits, including assessment by the top management, at workplaces      performance evaluation of sic-dpfs with
    in japan and overseas, and also provide business partners with         engine bench test
    guidance for quality improvement. moreover, we promote ongoing         we are updating the engine and evaluation
                                                                           system to meet the latest exhaust emission
    quality improvement activities under the initiative of the quality     regulations.
    assurance division for the purpose of increasing customer
    satisfaction with an emphasis on quality. a global quality assurance meeting is called every three months to
    ensure that the entire group is on board. in fiscal year 2013, all employees at all plants worked towards a
    common goal of a 98% yield ratio with zero failure.



    quality management system
    in our electronics-related operation, since the acquisition of iso 9001 certification in march 1995, we have
    been actively upgrading our quality management systems on an ongoing basis. we are striving to offer
    products that exceed the expectations and needs of our customers. in our ceramics-related operation, we
    obtained iso/ts16949 certification, an international standard for quality management in the automobile
    industry, in japan in october 2003. this certification was also obtained at global manufacturing locations in
    fiscal year 2006. we are building a system to offer high-quality products at a global level, upgrading the level
    of quality. from fiscal year 2013, we began to build a management system that integrates quality (iso9001),
    environment (iso14001), occupational health and safety (ohsas18001), and business operations in order to
    improve quality in all business operations.



    measures for enhancement of customer satisfaction
    the sales division in charge of customer relations gathers various types of information on technologies and
    complaints and informs each division about them. each operation reviews the level of customer satisfaction,
    which they check on a regular basis in training camps. measures to enhance customer satisfaction are taken
    under the leadership of the management. for the customer support that we provide primarily through the
    sales division and our state-of-the-art products, we have gained a high reputation from our customers
    including manufacturers of electrical equipment, semiconductors and automobiles.

                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 52




53889312609.indd   52                                                                                                     2014/09/29   10:34:33

    development of human resources that sustain quality
    so that we can benefit from the experience of our workers and develop human resources capable of creating new
    value, we offer systematic education to all employees.
       going forward, the focus will be on four ibi-techno capabilities in management of business, management of
    technology, total productive management, management capability, in accordance with the tpm approach for
    developing human resources that practice the customers-first principle. determining the degree of progress at
    each step, we aim to boost skills and motivation. accurately reviewing the ever-evolving value of our business
    activities from the customers’ perspective based on the level of customer satisfaction, we aspire to be an
    enterprise that continues to grow.

    ipm activities（ibiden profit management）
    tpm activities, conceived in fiscal year 2012 and mainly centered on reinforcing our                                                       “management of
    manufacturing division, have evolved into ipm activities in which all employees from                                                        business”
    all divisions take part in improving customer satisfaction and strengthening our
    competitiveness. the underlining philosophy is that our ipm activities are designed                                         “total productive
                                                                                                                                 management”
    first and foremost for our customers. improving the four ibi-techno(“management                                                           “management of
    of business”, “management of technology”, “total productive management” and                                                                technology”
    “management capability”) will boost ibiden's corporate value and ensure a stable
    profit supported by strong competitiveness in the market. we also strive to give
    back to our stakeholders.                                                                                                   image of “spiral up”
                                                                                                                                for ibiden ipm activities
       activities to strengthen “management of business” : set a target that is a testa-
    ment to our high level of competitiveness and offers customer delight.
       activities to strengthen “management of technology” : realize our own unique process/equipment and plant
    development with a high level of competitiveness.
       activities to strengthen “total productive management” : implement further improvements and manage main-
    tenance.
    we will reach all our business targets by promoting and realizing these three ibi-techno capabilities through
    our activities to strengthen “management capability”.
       the competitiveness in the market stems directly from human resources. we continue to challenge ourselves
    to meet our own high expectations, achieve results through teamwork that goes beyond hierarchy and organi-
    zational hurdles, and promote the spirit of teamwork, skills, and the sense of satisfaction derived from a job well
    done. as we challenge ourselves to achieve higher goals, the success of “spiral up” will follow.

    customer satisfaction and quality improvement initiatives chart

                                                             customer satisfaction
                                              offering safe, reassuring and eco-friendly products

                                                             p                                            s
                                     d                                                                                              d
        customers-
        first activities
                                          design and                          quality                  product-making
                                                                                                                                            p=plan
                                                                                                                                            s=standard
                                          developing                                                                                        d=do
                                                                                                                                            c=check
                                     c                                                                                              c       a=action


                                 diligent
                                                             a                                             a                            tpm activity
                                                                                                                                (total productive management)
                               quality care
                                 from the
                                beginning                        ems                               qms
                                                             (environmental                         (quality
                                                              management                          management
                                                                 system)                            system)
                                                                              core system

        systems                                 isms
                                              (information                                                            ic
        supporting                               security
                                              management
                                                                                                               (internal control)

                                                 system)
        customers-                                                              ohsas
                                                                               (occupational
        first practices                                                       health and safety
                                                                                assessment
                                                                                   series)


                                                                                     corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 53




53889312609.indd   53                                                                                                                                           2014/09/29   10:34:34

    corporate responsibility goal summary
    upon the revision of the ibiden group charter of behavior, from fiscal year 2011, we have deployed the
    revised csr activities. the implemented activities aimed at addressing medium-term goals and issues based
    on the revised charter of behavior are as follows.

                                                                                                                                                        item implemented in fiscal                 item for implementation
                                                             ibiden group
                                                                                                           medium-term targets                         year 2013 and management                    plan and targets in fiscal
                                                           charter of behavior
                                                                                                                                                           indices for outcomes                           year 2014
                                                                                                    understanding laws and regulations of              operated a compliance system through       formulating a system to prevent
                                                                                                    each country or region and monitoring              the management system for                  and detect early violations and
                                                                                                    the compliance.                                    administrative divisions.                  misconducts.
                                                                                                                                                       implemented legal education for the        enhancing compliance education
         article 1: compliance with laws, regulations, and ethics




                                                                                                                                                       competition laws including anti-fraud      and strengthening the check
                                                                                                                                                       laws and regulations of foreign            function through internal audit.
                                                                                                                                                       countries.
                                                                                                                                                       formulating a system to prevent and
                                                                                                                                                       detect early violations and
                                                                                                                                                       misconducts.
                                                                    we comply with laws,                                                               enhancing compliance education and
                                                                    regulations and ethical                                                            strengthening the check function
                                                                    requirements of the                                                                through internal audit.
                                                                    countries and regions           making a clarifying statement about                started to build a company-wide            establishing a company-wide
                                                                    where its business              corporate rules and ethics to educate              integrated management system and           management system that integrates
                                                                    operations are based. we        employees, and monitoring the                      completed document integration.            existing systems.
                                                                    work against corruption in      compliance.                                        developed a new document system for        promoting compliance activities at
                                                                    all its forms, and carry out                                                       the new management system.                 each plant and the group
                                                                    open and fair corporate                                                            implemented corrective actions through     companies, following the issues
                                                                    activities with the intention                                                      monitoring compliance with standards       that have been determined by
                                                                    of becoming a company                                                              for employee behavior and                  monitoring of standards for
                                                                    that enjoys the confidence                                                         implementation of the relevant system      employee behavior.
                                                                    of the international                                                               and education.
                                                                    community. we also
                                                                    protect and properly            eliminating anti-social forces (such as            audited high-risk matters for corruption   conducting major audits including
                                                                    manage personal and             organized crime and corporate                      or violation and identified the issues.    for corruption, fixed assets,
                                                                    customer data and other         democrat) from the group’s business                collected information to eliminate         information security and
                                                                    types of information.           fields, and operating a system to prevent          anti- social forces.                       compliance.
                                                                                                    faults.
                                                                                                    making a clarifying statement and                  implemented an information security        improving the items identified by
                                                                                                    sharing how to protect and manage                  diagnosis.                                 the it diagnosis.
                                                                                                    information of the group, and                      began to organize rules related to         implementing a review of it risk
                                                                                                    monitoring the compliance.                         information security.                      concerning the group’s business
                                                                                                                                                                                                  continuity.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  strengthening thoroughly our
                                                                                                                                                                                                  classified information management
                                                                                                                                                                                                  through review of information
                                                                                                                                                                                                  security activities.
                                                                                                    disclosing corporate information                   started a revision of the information      establishing measures to be taken
                                                                                                    comprehensibly and fairly with the accurate        management system under the new            in cases involving misconduct and
         article 2: development together with stakeholders




                                                                                                    control. in addition, building up a system to      management system.                         the occurrence of an emergency
                                                                                                    provide clear explanation rapidly to the society                                              situation.
                                                                                                    in case of problem occurrence.
                                                                                                    regularly arranging meetings to                    implemented communication between          maintaining communication
                                                                                                    exchange opinions with employees and               labor and management.                      between labor and management.
                                                                                                    local communities, and sharing the                 conducted information exchange with        continuously conducting
                                                                                                    proposition and taking the measures.               community associations.                    information exchange with
                                                                                                                                                                                                  community associations.
                                                                    we develop together with
                                                                    our stakeholders, so we         conveying our policy to suppliers and              started revision of internal procedures    establishing csr guidelines for
                                                                    enhance the transparency        building up a system to implement csr              including a supplier evaluation.           suppliers.
                                                                    of management and build         management with them.                              implemented audit and enforcement to       conducting monitoring of
                                                                    a trustworthy relationship                                                         upgrade the level of supply chain csr      compliance with csr guidelines
                                                                    through communication.                                                             management.                                through assessments and audits,
                                                                    we also actively engage in                                                         conducted monitoring of compliance         and implementing actions (zero
                                                                    community-based activities                                                         with the csr guidelines and the            material breach).
                                                                    that contribute to society                                                         improvements.
                                                                    as a good corporate
                                                                    citizen.                        establishing philosophy, system and                implemented programs to                    continuously implementing a youth
                                                                                                    domain of social contribution activities,          communicate the positive aspects of        development program.
                                                                                                    and encouraging cooperation with local             product-making mainly for elementary
                                                                                                    communities and voluntary social                   school students as a form of youth
                                                                                                    participation of employees.                        development.
                                                                                                    from the perspective of risk                       developed a revised plan of measures       developing procedures for a
                                                                                                    management, preparing a system to                  regarding damage estimation.               response to emergency disasters,
                                                                                                    report the management layer promptly               conducted risk management related to       and conducting training.
                                                                                                    and to minimize damages including to               the environment as well as health and      visualizing a bcp plan for
                                                                                                    take preventive measures in case of an             safety.                                    electronic materials suppliers.
                                                                                                    emergency occurrence.
                                                                                                    properly monitoring customer                       monitored customer satisfaction, and       monitoring customer satisfaction,
     article 3: providing




                                                                                                    satisfaction and operating a system to             highlighted various issues.                and highlighting various issues.
      customer delight




                                                                    we provide customer
                                                                    delight, so we have a good      implement the pdca cycle.
                                                                    understanding of social
                                                                    trends, future needs and
                                                                                                    * additionally we are addressing with the following targets: monitor of market demands, challenges to new fields, and
                                                                    develop. we provide safe
                                                                                                      reform and improvement of existing fields.
                                                                    and secure products and
                                                                    services to maximize our
                                                                    customer’s satisfaction by
                                                                    growing ibi-techno.




                                                                                                                                                            corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 54




53889312609.indd                                                       54                                                                                                                                                      2014/09/29   10:34:34

                                                                                                                                              item implemented in fiscal                                                    item for implementation
                                                 ibiden group
                                                                                            medium-term targets                              year 2013 and management                                                       plan and targets in fiscal
                                               charter of behavior
                                                                                                                                                 indices for outcomes                                                              year 2014
                                                                                    reflecting the group charter of behavior and            audited high-risk matters for corruption                                       horizontally expanding the csr
                                                                                    the guidelines to the implementation items of           or violation and identified the issues.                                        diagnosis that meets global
                                                                                    the group companies, and localizing it to reflect       collected information to eliminate                                             standards, sharing good practices,
                                                                                    the characteristics of local management with            anti-social forces.                                                            and improving the level of affiliated
     article 4: management based on




                                                                                    deepening mutual understanding of norms,                                                                                               companies.
                                                                                    culture and customs of each country or region.
                                                                                    respecting basic labor rights as international norms,   strengthened legal cooperation with overseas
                                                                                    and improving the working condition and environment     manufacturing bases.
                                                       we manage our group
              global standards




                                                                                    properly according to the circumstances such as rules   identified issues for overseas personnel and the personnel
                                                       based on global standards.
                                                                                    and regulations of each country and region.             system, and prepared a global human resource policy.
                                                       we respect human rights
                                                       and other international      familiarizing employees with top                        conducting education to spread the                                             implementing activities to spread
                                                       norms of behavior. also,     management’s basic posture on corporate                 ibiden way.                                                                    the ibiden way throughout the
                                                       we respect culture and       philosophy, the charter of behavior and                                                                                                group.
                                                       customs in each country or   the standards for employee behavior.
                                                       region concerned when
                                                                                    establishing internal and external                      expanded educational activities to deal                                        conducting appropriate operation of the
                                                       carrying out our corporate
                                                                                    information gathering counter that is                   with issues through operation of the                                           compliance counter.
                                                       activity.
                                                                                    secured anonymity, protection and non                   compliance counter.                                                            expanding educational activities based on
                                                                                    prejudice of whistleblowers, and                                                                                                       issues and other important matters, and
                                                                                    formalizing it.                                                                                                                        preventing a recurrence of serious problems.
                                                                                    conducting and documenting the                          improved the issues of internal controls                                       implementing efficient and effective audits in
                                                                                    following process: audit of the status of               identified in the audit report and risk                                        cooperation with the internal control audit,
                                                                                    effects, extraction of issues, indication of            management report.                                                             operational audit, and other audits.
                                                                                    measures, and implementation of                                                                                                        enhancing risk assessments to the group
                                                                                    improvement activities.                                                                                                                companies by revising the proper tools.
                                                                                    operating a eco-friendly system in                      prepared check sheets based on                                                 reflecting energy-saving items at
                                                                                    product lifecycle (procurement, design,                 important themes requiring an                                                  the design stage.
                                                                                    production, use and disposal).                          eco-friendly design.
                                                                                    continuously reducing environmental                     systematically maintained and updated facilities for a stable energy supply.   improving energy consumption per unit
                                                                                    burdens and costs by striving to develop                identified problems through the energy-saving diagnosis, and conducted         linked directly to cost.
                                                                                    innovative technologies and products for                improvements.                                                                  continuously implementing systematic
                                                                                    a low-carbon society as wall as to make                 implemented an energy-saving assessment.                                       maintenance of facilities for a stable
                                                                                    energy-saving improvements in                           • a reduction of 1% in co2 emission per bas ic unit of production             energy supply.
                                                                                    production activities.                                    compared to fiscal year 2012.                                                standardizing cases of improvement in
           article 5: harmony with nature




                                                                                                                                            * started full-scale sales of electric power generated by hydroelectric       energy saving and efficiency
                                                                                                                                               power.                                                                      accompanying the change in production.
                                                       we harmonize with nature
                                                       in all areas of our          continuously implementing cyclical use                  identified losses through mass balance monitoring, and                         reducing input/output by promoting visualization of
                                                       corporate activities. we     of resources and cost reduction by                      conducted improvements.                                                        industrial waste.
                                                       manage to develop            promoting development and                               converted waste plastics into recyclable materials (100%).                     maintaining compliance by promoting electronic manifests
                                                       technologies to achieve      improvement of 3r (reduce, reuse,                       • a reduction of 9% in the water withdrawal unit load rate                    in compliance management for waste materials.
                                                       good balance between the     recycle) technology.                                       compared to fiscal year 2012.                                               implementing management of industrial waste costs by
                                                       environment and business,                                                            • a reduction of 7% in the waste unit load rate compared                      establishing and promoting a system of separated refuse
                                                       and we provide                                                                          to fiscal year 2012.                                                        and recycling.
                                                       environmentally friendly
                                                                                    establishing management systems such                    shared information through the global ehs                                      promoting an upgrade of the level of
                                                       products and services by
                                                                                    as chemical management, pollution                       conference and patrol of the environment operation.                            suppliers’ chemical management.
                                                       promoting energy and
                                                                                    prevention management and disaster                      identified the proliferation risk of specific toxic                            identified risks in chemicals management
                                                       resource conservation
                                                                                    prevention management, and enforcing                    substances in a natural disaster, and formulated                               and implemented corrections.
                                                       activities.
                                                                                    risk mitigation activities continuously.                response standards.                                                            strengthening risk management concerning
                                                                                                                                            held meetings of the chemical substance                                        soil and pipe ends (water and air).
                                                                                                                                            management committee (continued zero violations                                promoting management and compliance
                                                                                                                                            for chemical substance-related laws and regulations.)                          with legal action matters for the changes in
                                                                                                                                            updated green procurement guidelines.                                          the business environment.
                                                                                    determining the specific activities of                  continuously implemented activities for “ibiden’s                              continuously implementing
                                                                                    biodiversity, and contributing actively to              forest.”                                                                       activities for “ibiden’s forest.”
                                                                                    nature conservation.                                    (1) execution of development and maintenance
                                                                                                                                            activities for planting.
                                                                                                                                            (2) continuation of logging and development
                                                                                                                                            activities in the forest.
                                                                                    preparing work environment to improve productivity      continued implementation of parental leave interviews. continuing dispatch of information,
                                                                                    and diversification of employment formats, and          dispatched information on career development for       and enhancement of the personnel
                                                                                    improving work environment and institution for          women.                                                 system and support for women.
           article 6: attractive and vibrant company




                                                                                    employees to work on with ease.                         enhanced the personnel system.
                                                                                    clarifying what type of human resources                 improved skills in maintenance and improvement                                 enhancing the training system for executives
                                                                                    and skills should be needed by                          by enhancing product-making education.                                         of the overseas group companies.
                                                       we aim to become an          occupation or grade, and enhancing the                  enhanced support for employees who were                                        revising the personnel system due to
                                                       attractive and vibrant       career development activities.                          seconded overseas and then returned to japan.                                  changes in the age structure.
                                                       company on the basis of
                                                                                    establishing and maintaining an                         discussed a review of the management- introduced fair personnel
                                                       fair, equitable and result
                                                                                    evaluation and compensation system for                  by-objectives system.                 evaluation criteria, and reviewed
                                                       oriented employee
                                                                                    fair appraisal and fair treatment.                                                            the management-by-objectives
                                                       evaluation personnel
                                                                                                                                                                                  system.
                                                       system. we aim to have a
                                                       safe and comfortable         operating an occupational safety and                    upgraded the safety management level of each                                   reducing occupational accidents due to unsafe
                                                       working environment. we      health system to prevent work-related                   base focusing on occupational accidents involving                              behavior by implementing thorough safety rules.
                                                       create a rewarding           accidents in all stages from planning to                at least four days of lost work-time to achieve zero                           identifying potential risks, and preventing accidents
                                                       corporate culture that the   maintenance of facility.                                serious accidents (the number of occupational                                  through greater awareness.
                                                       employee can respect for                                                             accidents involving at least four days of lost                                 improving the management level for hazardous
                                                       each diversity, and fully                                                            worktime: zero).                                                               working environments.
                                                       exercise their skills and                                                            achieved safety-first construction (the number of                              promoting compliance with laws, regulations, and
                                                       abilities.                                                                           construction occupational accidents: zero) (the                                administrative guidance related to protective
                                                                                                                                            number of occupational accidents: 38 ⇒ 27 cases).                              equipment and the work environment management.
                                                                                    working to improve health of mind and                   started health management during five-year                                     promoting health management (the
                                                                                    body of employees.                                      plan periods (the health 105 plan).                                            health 105 plan).
                                                                                                                                            enhanced implementation of the e-health                                        reducing mental health disorders.
                                                                                                                                            check system, and conducted education                                          strengthening preventive measures
                                                                                                                                            related to power harassment.                                                   against power harassment.


                                                                                                                                                     corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 55




53889312609.indd                                          55                                                                                                                                                                                                              2014/09/29   10:34:34

    corporate information (as of march 31, 2014)

      company outline
    trade name:             ibiden co., ltd.
    established:            november 25, 1912
    capital:                ¥64,152 million
    representative:         hiroki takenaka, president & ceo
    number of employees: consolidated 14,122 non-consolidated 3,554
    office and plants
    head office:            2-1, kanda-cho, ogaki city, gifu 503-8604, japan tel: 0584-81-3111
    branches:               tokyo, osaka
    plants:                 gifu prefecture (ogaki, ogaki central, aoyanagi, gama, ogaki-kita, godo);
                            aichi prefecture (kinuura); tokyo research laboratory
    number of subsidiaries: consolidated subsidiaries: 39 (16 in japan, 23 overseas)

      main business lines
     business segments                                      main products/business areas
     electronics operation printed wiring boards and package substrates
                             environment-related ceramics products, graphite specialty products, fine ceramics
     ceramics operation
                             products, ceramics fiber
     housing materials housing equipment, melamine decorative laminates and decorative laminates related
     operation               products
     c o n s t r u c t i o n design and construction of civil engineering works including slop protection construction
     operation               and landscape gardening, as well as of environmental facilities
                             synthetic resin processing, agriculture, livestock, and fishery processing, oil products sales,
     other operations
                             provision of information and other services

      change in business results
     net sales                                                operating income                                      ordinary income
       （billion yen）                                        （billion yen）                                          （billion yen）
        500                                                    50                                                     50
        400                                                    40                                                     40
                                                                               33.8                                                    33.5
                            304.9   300.8           310.2
        300        274.2                    285.9              30                                                     30                                       28.4
                                                                                                      23.4
                                                                        21.2
                                                                                                                               19.4
        200                                                    20                     15.5                            20                       16.2
                                                                                                                                                       10.8
        100                                                    10                              5.4                    10
            0                                                    0                                                      0
                   2009 2010 2011 2012 2013（fy）                        2009 2010 2011 2012 2013（fy）                           2009 2010 2011 2012 2013（fy）

     net income                                               net sales composition by business segments            net sales by geographical segments
        （billion yen）
          40                                                  other 7.1%                       electronics 48.5%               other                      japan
                                                                                                                               23,820 million yen         79,607 million yen
                                                              construction 4.5%
          30                                                  housing                                                   europe
                                                              materials 8.1%                                            59,506 million yen
                            19.7
          20                                        17.4
                                                                                                                        north america
                   11.8             10.6                                                                                13,871 million yen
          10
                                             2.2                                                                        asia
            0                                                 ceramics 31.8%
                                                                                                                        133,461 million yen
                   2009 2010 2011 2012 2013（fy）
                                                                                                                   net sales are classified by country or region based
                                                                                                                   on the location of customers.


      disclosure of financial information
    ibiden takes steps to disclose information at appropriate times to share-
    holders and investors in a fair, accurate, and easy-to-understand manner.
    pursuant to the timely disclosure rule of the tokyo stock exchange, our in-
    formation disclosure standards require the disclosure of information rele-
    vant to our operations, scope of business, and assets that could significantly
    affect investment judgments, as well as any changes or suspension of im-
    portant corporate information that has already been published. our policy
    is to disclose such information proactively and fairly. we will also disclose
    corporate information that could significantly influence investment judg-
    ments even if the timely disclosure rule does not apply, as accurately,
                                                                                                                             website for shareholders and investors
    promptly and appropriately as possible.                                                                              http://www.ibiden.com/ir/index.html

                                                                                             corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 56




53889312609.indd       56                                                                                                                                             2014/09/29   10:34:35

      main subsidiaries and affiliates

                         company- japan                 location                            main business
     ibiden electronics industries co., ltd.   ogaki, gifu               manufacture of electronic substrates
     ibiden greentec co., ltd.                 ogaki, gifu               design and construction of special works
     ibiden chemicals co., ltd.                ogaki, gifu               manufacture and sales of chemical products
     ibiken co., ltd.                          ogaki, gifu               sale of housing materials
     ibiden graphite co., ltd.                 ogaki, gifu               manufacture of graphite products
     ibiden industries co., ltd.               ogaki, gifu               sale of products and equipments
     tak co., ltd.                             ogaki, gifu               information services
     ibiden jushi co., ltd.                    ibi-gun, gifu             manufacture of foamed-resin products
                                                                         processing of agricultural and marine
     ibiden bussan co., ltd.                   motosu, gifu
                                                                         products
                                                                         design and construction of mechanical
     ibiden engineering co., ltd.              ogaki, gifu
                                                                         facilities
     ibiden career techno corp.                ogaki, gifu               temporary staffing services
     ibiden kenso co., ltd.                    ogaki, gifu               sale of housing materials


                        company- overseas               location                            main business
                                                                         investment and finance in u.s.a., and sales
     ibiden u.s.a. corp.                       u.s.a.
                                                                         of products
     micro mech,inc.                           u.s.a.                    manufacture of graphite products
     ibiden méxico, s.a. de c.v.               mexico                    manufacture of ceramic products
                                                                         investment and finance in europe, and sales
     ibiden europe b.v.                        netherlands
                                                                         of the products
     ibiden hungary kft.                       hungary                   manufacture of ceramic products
     ibiden dpf france s.a.s.                  france                    manufacture of ceramic products
     ibiden porzellanfabrik frauenthal gmbh    austria                   manufacture of ceramic products
     ibiden philippines,inc.                   philippines               manufacture of electronics substrates
     ibiden electronics (beijing) co., ltd.    p.r.c.                    manufacture of electronics substrates
     ibiden electronics (shanghai) co., ltd.   p.r.c.                    sales of products
     ibiden asia holdings pte., ltd.           singapore                 investment and finance in asia
     ibiden singapore pte. ltd.                singapore                 sales of products
     ibiden electronics malaysia sdn. bhd.     malaysia                  manufacture of electronics substrates
     ibiden graphite korea co., ltd.           korea                     manufacture of graphite products
     ibiden korea co., ltd.                    korea                     sales of products
     ibiden taiwan co., ltd.                   taiwan                    sales of products

    the company had 39 consolidated subsidiaries including the above companies as of march 31, 2014.




                                                                   corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 57




53889312609.indd   57                                                                                                       2014/09/29   10:34:35

      board of directors/organization

    directors                        board of directors                                                        csr promotion division
                                                                     strategic corporate
    representative directors:        board of corporate auditors                                               office of the president
                                                                     planning operation
          hiroki takenaka                                                                                      enterprises administrative division

          hironobu kodaka                                                                                          finance division
                                                                                                                     legal division
    directors:
                                                                                                               human resources division
          shigeyasu kurita
                                                                                                               general affairs division
          keiichi sakashita
                                                                                                                     tokyo branch
          yoichi kuwayama
                                                                                                                     osaka branch
          katsumi sagisaka                                         strategic manufacturing
                                                                                                               ipm promotion division
          tsuyoshi nishida                                                operation
                                                                                                               quality management division
          takeshi aoki
                                                                                                               global purchasing division
          yoshiyuki iwata                                          energy & environment
                                                                                                               environment & safety division
          kazushige ohno                                                operation
                                                                                                               environment technology division
          masahiko ikuta
                                                                                                               energy control division
          shozo saito*
                                                                       r&d operation                           intellectual property division
          chiaki yamaguchi*
                                                                                                               development division
              * outside director                                        production
                                                                                                               electronic development division
                                                                   engineering operation
                                                                                                               equipment design division
    auditors                                                                                                   equipment management division
    standing auditors:                                                                                          plant design division
          yoshio hirabayashi                                           pkg operation                           business planning division
          katsumi mabuchi                                                                                      pkg business administration division
    outside corporate auditors:                                                                                 engineering division
          tadao kuribayashi                                                                                    quality assurance division
          yasuhiro kumagai                                                                                     manufacturing division

          shigenori shioda                                                                                                    ipi

                                                                      pwb operation                            business planning division

    executive officers                                                                                         business administration division
                                                                                                                engineering division
    president & ceo:
                                                                                                                              ieb
          hiroki takenaka
                                                                                                                             iem
    executive vice president:
                                                                   ceramic operation                           business planning division
          hironobu kodaka
    executive managing officers:                                                              dpf unit         business administration division

          shigeyasu kurita                                                                                          design division
                                                                                                               process engineering division
          keiichi sakashita
                                                                                                               quality assurance division
          yoichi kuwayama
                                                                                                               manufacturing division
          takayuki takagi
                                                                                                                             idfs
    senior managing officers:
          katsumi sagisaka                                                                    afp unit         business administration division
                                                                                                                engineering division
          tsuyoshi nishida
                                                                                                               quality assurance division
          takeshi aoki
                                                                                                               manufacturing division
          yoshiyuki iwata
    managing officers:                                                                                                        ihu

          kazushige ohno                                                                   scr business unit   sales & marketing division

          masahiko ikuta                                                                                        engineering division

              sotaro ito                                                                                                      ipf

              koji kawashima                                                                  fgm unit         business administration division

              kozo kodama                                                                                       engineering division

              koji shimato                                                                                     manufacturing division
                                                                                                                             igk
              masashi maruyama
                                                                                                               production engineering division
             （as of june 20, 2014）

                                                                            corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 58




53889312609.indd   58                                                                                                                                 2014/09/29   10:34:35

    e ditorial po l i cy

    the ibiden 2014 corporate social responsibility report, covering mainly the environmental and social as-
    pects of the ibiden group’s policy and performance, is published to inform stakeholders about the ibiden
    group’s csr activities in an easy-to-understand format. in recognition of the fact that csr is closely linked
    to our corporate management, this report focuses on the key themes based on matters of interest to our
    stakeholders and our four themes―internal control, human resource management, environmental man-
    agement, and social contribution—including in “develop and promote csr management globally” which is
    one of the pillars of our medium-term management plan. this report contains detailed information for our
    stakeholders on the group’s policies and measures with regard to each theme and task.

     period covered
    this report focuses primarily on activities during fiscal year 2013 (april 1, 2013 to march 31, 2014), but also
    includes details of selected ongoing initiatives and more recent activities.

     date of publication
    september 2014 (previous report: september 2013, next report: september 2015)

     guidelines used as reference
    iso26000:2010 guidance on social responsibility
    g4 sustainability reporting guidelines, global reporting initiative (gri)
    environmental reporting guidelines (fiscal year 2012 version), ministry of the environment
    environmental accounting guidelines (fiscal year 2005 version), ministry of the environment
    note: gri guideline comparison table can be found at the end of the report.

     supplementary information regarding the contents
    in the fiscal year under review, the following companies were excluded from the scope of this report. al-
    though newly established ibiden méxico, s.a. de c.v. was included in the scope of consolidation from fiscal
    year 2013, it was excluded due to the pre-operation phase. ibiden electronics (shanghai) co., ltd. and ibi-
    tech co., ltd. were dissolved and settlement of their operations has been completed. ibiden france s.a.s.
    was dissolved without liquidation, and all rights and obligations have passed to ibiden europe b.v.
    in case any revision was made to the data, reasons for such revision have been stated individually.

     disclosure of csr information
    the ibiden group’s csr report is published on our website. we will up-
    date social and environmental information in an appropriate manner.
       furthermore, our website serves as a venue to disclose in a timely
    manner a wide range of information such as financial information in-
    cluding the group’s business report and its consolidated financial
    statements as well as nonfinancial information such as various poli-
    cies and management indicators concerning csr.

         website
     ibiden group’s web site                http://www.ibiden.com/
     ibiden group’s csr web site            http://www.ibiden.com/csr/
     process of determining reporting items
    (1) list of reporting themes                                                                                           communication with
    based on the ibiden group charter of behavior, the main divi-                           themes based on
                                                                                                                           our customers, the industry,
                                                                                                                           and local communities
    sions evaluate and identify the issues that the ibiden group                            the ibiden group               and external evaluation
    should tackle (see page 5). furthermore, themes in which our                            charter of behavior            organizations

    stakeholders might be interested are identified including indus-                          themes that
    try-wide items such as the eicc code of conduct, requests re-                          the ibiden group
                                                                                                                                    concerns of
                                                                                                                                  our stakeholders
    ceived from customers, evaluations and feedback received from                            should tackle
    external agencies such as social responsibility investment (sri),
    feedback on our csr report, themes involving labor/manage-
    ment relationship, and direct communication with other stake-
    holders such as the member of the local community. a reference                                                evaluation of
    table listing these themes alongside the gri sustainability re-                                                materiality
    porting guideline 4th edition (hereafter the “g4 guideline”) was                  responding to
                                                                                  stakeholders’ concerns
    then prepared. themes that do not fall under any g4 guideline                                             reporting items
    categories are added to the list as new items.                                                          in csr report 2014

    (2) evaluation of materiality
    a degree of materiality of each issue is then calculated based on its ef-               approved by the
                                                                                         disclosure committee
    fect on the ibiden group and the materiality of the issue for our stake-              (internal regulation)
    holders. items at the top of the list are then identified as priorities.
        as a result, we have selected 23 reporting themes with a high                                        themes based on
    level of materiality out of a possible 55 found on the list in (1).                                      the ibiden group
                                                                                                            charter of behavior
    materiality reporting themes are identified clearly at the end of
    this document in the g4 guideline reference table.
                                                                                   flow chart of determining reporting items
    (3) reporting items in the report
    centered on these issues with a high level of materiality, the report explains why the items are material to the ibiden
    group and describes the management structure as well as the indexes. each reporting theme is divided into groups

                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 59




53889312609.indd   59                                                                                                                            2014/09/29   10:38:45

    based on four viewpoints (internal control, human resource                                                               scope of this document’ s reporting




                                                                                   materiality to our stakeholders
    management, environmental management, and social con-
    tribution) of our “implementation of csr management,”
    which is one of the pillars of our consolidated medium-term
    management plan.                                                                                                  issues requiring
        this report is intended for the stakeholders who are
                                                                                                                                              material issues
                                                                                                                       guiding policies
    highly interested in csr. the report includes not only the
    reporting themes of high materiality but also items in which
    many of our stakeholders expressed a strong interest and
    wanted us to tackle. we also include the issues that the
    company has been working hard to address, so that our                                                                                   issues whose eﬀect
    stakeholders can gain a deeper understanding of our plan                                                              issues of
                                                                                                                                              can be handled
    of action as well as our point of view.                                                                            low materiality
                                                                                                                                                 internally
    (4) disclosure of reporting content
    this csr report is published after undergoing the
    above-mentioned process to select reporting items and                                                                         degree of eﬀect on the ibiden group
    is based on the company’s disclosure rules. it was also                                                          figure: issue placement and scope of reporting
    approved by the disclosure committee.

     coverage
    as a rule, the contents of this report relate to ibiden co., ltd. ( “we” / “ibiden” / “the company” ) and do-
    mestic and overseas companies belonging to the ibiden group. parts of this report that do not relate to the
    ibiden group ( “the group” ) are specified on an individual basis. selected environment data are only appli-
    cable to ibiden’s domestic premises. such data are marked as “ibiden domestic premises” and include
    ibiden co., ltd. and selected domestic group companies.
    the details of the scope (significant subsidiaries) of this report are as follows:
                                                           internal     human resource environmental environmental   social
                        domestic                                                                                                                                remark
                                                           control       management    management         data     contribution
     ibiden electronics industries co., ltd.                  ○              ○               ●             ◎           ○
     ibiden greentec co., ltd.                                ○              ○               ○             ◎           ○
     ibiden chemicals co., ltd.                               ○              ○               ○             ◎           ○
                                                                                                                                                              except for
     ibiken co., ltd.                                         ○              ○                                           ○             ○            ○
                                                                                                                                                             manufacturing
     ibiden graphite co., ltd.                                ○              ○                                           ●             ◎            ○
     ibiden industries co., ltd.                              ○              ○                                           ○             ◎            ○
                                                                                                                                                              except for
     tak co., ltd.                                            ○              ○                                           ○             ○            ○
                                                                                                                                                             manufacturing
     ibiden jushi co., ltd.                                   ○              ○                                           ○             ◎            ○
     ibiden bussan co., ltd.                                  ○              ○                                           ○             ◎            ○
     ibiden engineering co., ltd.                             ○              ○                                           ●*            ◎            ○
                                                                                                                                                              except for
     ibiden career techno corp                                ○              ○                                           ○             ○            ○
                                                                                                                                                             manufacturing
                                                                                                                                                              except for
     ibiden kenso co., ltd.                                   ○              ○                                           ○             ○            ○
                                                                                                                                                             manufacturing
    ● denotes “included in ibiden domestic premises.”
    * denotes “excluding the ibiden engineering headquarters.”

                                                           internal     human resource environmental environmental   social
                          global                                                                                                                                remark
                                                           control       management    management         data     contribution
                                                                                                                                                              except for
     ibiden u.s.a. corp.                                      ○              ○                                           ○             -            ○
                                                                                                                                                             manufacturing
     micro mech, lnc.                                         ○              ○                                           ○             ○            ○
     ibiden méxico, s.a. de c.v.                              ○              -                                           -             -            -        prior to operation
                                                                                                                                                                except for
     ibiden europe b.v.                                       ○              ○                                           ○             -            ○
                                                                                                                                                             manufacturing
     ibiden hungary kft.                                      ○              ○                                           ○             ◎            ○
     ibiden dpf france s.a.s.                                 ○              ○                                           ○             ◎            ○
     ibiden porzellanfabrik frauenthal gmbh.                  ○              ○                                           ○             ◎            ○
                                                                                                                                                              except for
     ibiden asia holdings pte., ltd.                          ○              ○                                           ○             -            ○
                                                                                                                                                             manufacturing
     ibiden electronics malaysia sdn. bhd.                    ○              ○                                           ○             ◎            ○
     ibiden electronics (beijing) co., ltd.                   ○              ○                                           ○             ◎            ○
     ibiden graphite korea co., ltd.                          ○              ○                                           ○             ○            ○
     ibiden philippines, inc.                                 ○              ○                                           ○             ◎            ○
     ibiden electronics (shanghai) co., ltd.                  ○              ○                                           ○             ○            ○
                                                                                                                                                              except for
     ibiden singapore pte. ltd.                               ○              ○                                           ○             -            ○
                                                                                                                                                             manufacturing
                                                                                                                                                              except for
     ibiden korea co., ltd.                                   ○              ○                                           ○             -            ○
                                                                                                                                                             manufacturing
                                                                                                                                                              except for
     ibiden taiwan co., ltd.                                  ○              ○                                           ○             -            ○
                                                                                                                                                             manufacturing
    ◎ denotes “bases as shown in the graphs including a basic unit ratio”
    please note that each report is completed by specifying the scope in the graphs and the text in the report. further-
    more, the effects on entities outside the company such as its supply chain are described individually within the report.

                                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 60




53889312609.indd   60                                                                                                                                                   2014/09/29   10:38:46

    gri index table

    in making the ibiden csr report 2014, we referred to the gri’s* latest g4 sustainability reporting guidelines.
    this report is based on the core option used as an objective measure of the extent to which the guidelines
    have been applied.
    *gri (global reporting initiative): an independent institution whose mission is to develop and disseminate
    globally applicable sustainability reporting guidelines.
    items on general standard disclosures that are required for the core option are in blue.
    items that are not required are posted on the index table below to enable better understanding of the company’s efforts.

                                                                                                                         ibiden co., ltd. csr report 2014
                                     general standard disclosures
                                                                                                                pages      assurance        corresponding topics
     strategy and analysis
                                                                                                                 p2                    top message
             statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization
                                                                                                                 p3                    ibiden way/challenge ibi
        g4-1 (e.g., ceo, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of                                         -
                                                                                                                                       techno 105 plan
             sustainability to the organization and its strategy.
                                                                                                                  p4                   ibiden group charter of behavior
                                                                                                                  p2                   top message
                                                                                                                 p4-5                  csr policy and promotional structure
        g4-2 description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities.                                                            -
                                                                                                                p11-12                 risk management
                                                                                                                p54-55                 corporate responsibility goal summary

     organizational profile
      g4-3 name of the organization.                                                                             p56          -        corporate information
      g4-4 primary brands, products, and/or services.                                                            p56          -        corporate information
      g4-5 location of organization’s headquarters.                                                              p56          -        corporate information
            number of countries where the organization operates, and names of
      g4-6 countries where either the organization has significant operations or that                            p57          -        corporate information
            are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report.
                                                                                                                                       governance structure in our
                                                                                                                  p8
        g4-7 nature of ownership and legal form.                                                                              -        group
                                                                                                                 p56
                                                                                                                                       corporate information
            markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and
        g4-8                                                                                                     p56          -        corporate information
            types of customers and beneficiaries).
            scale of the organization, including:
            ・total number of employees
            ・total number of operations
       g4-9                                                                                                      p56          -        corporate information
            ・net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations)
            ・total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations)
            ・quantity of products or services provided
            a. total number of employees by employment contract and gender.
            b. total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender.
            c. total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender.
            d. total workforce by region and gender.
      g4-10 e. whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers                  p19          -        constitution of employees
            who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees
            or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors.
            f. any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in
            employment in the tourism or agricultural industries).
                                                                                                                                       note: as partly disclosed on
      g4-11 percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements.                          note          -        page 10, “employee situation,” in
                                                                                                                                       the 161st annual security report
      g4-12 organization’s supply chain                                                                          p17          -        csr management in the supply chain
            any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organiza-
            tion’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including:
            ・changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility
               openings, closings, and expansions                                                                                      supplementary information
      g4-13                                                                                                      p59          -
            ・changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, main-                                                regarding the contents
               tenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations)
            ・changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or
               in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination

     commitment to external initiatives
           whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is ad-
     g4-14                                                                                                      p11-12        -        risk management
           dressed by the organization.
           externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles,                                               managing activities related to the
     g4-15                                                                                                       p5           -
           or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses.                                             ibiden group charter of beha vior
           a. memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national
           or international advocacy organizations in which the organization:
           ・holds a position on the governance body                                                               p5                   managing activities related to the
     g4-16 ・participates in projects or committees                                                               p36          -        ibiden group charter of behavior
           ・provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues                                                                appropriate chemical control
           ・views membership as strategic
           this refers primarily to memberships maintained at the organizational level.


                                                                                                  corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 61




53889312609.indd   61                                                                                                                                                 2014/09/29   10:38:46

                                                                                                                               ibiden co., ltd. csr report 2014
                                      general standard disclosures
                                                                                                                      pages       assurance        corresponding topics
     identified material aspects and boundaries
             a. all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial
             statements or equivalent documents.
      g4-17                                                                                p60                                       -        coverage
             b. whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial
             statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report.
             a. process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries.
      g4-18 b. how the organization has implemented the reporting principles for          p59-60                                     -        process of determining reporting items
             defining report content.
             a. all the material aspects identified in the process for defining report this table
      g4-19                                                                                                                          -        gri index table
             content.                                                                    (p61-66)
                                                                                                                                              process of determining reporting items
      g4-20 a. the aspect boundary within the organization for each material aspect.                                  p59-60         -
                                                                                                                                              coverage
      g4-21 a. the aspect boundary outside the organization for each material aspect.                                  p60           -        coverage
            a. report the effect of any restatements of information provided in                                                               supplementary information
      g4-22                                                                                                            p59           -
            previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements.                                                                          regarding the contents
            a. report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the                                                              supplementary information
      g4-23                                                                                                            p59           -
            scope and aspect boundaries.                                                                                                      regarding the contents
     stakeholder engagement
      g4-24 a. a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization.                                                                      csr policy and promotional structure
                                                                                                                       p4-5
            a. the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with                                                       -        dialogue and cooperation
      g4-25                                                                                                             p6
            whom to engage.                                                                                                                   with stakeholders
                                                                                                                                              dialogue and cooperation
            a. report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement,
                                                                                                                        p6                    with stakeholders
            including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group,
      g4-26                                                                                                             p7           -        assessment by third-party
            and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken
                                                                                                                      p59-60                  organizations and our actions
            specifically as part of the report preparation process.
                                                                                                                                              process of determining reporting items
                                                                                                                                              dialogue and cooperation
               a. report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stake-
                                                                                                                        p6                    with stakeholders
               holder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those
      g4-27                                                                                                             p7           -        assessment by third-party
               key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. report the
                                                                                                                      p54-55                  organizations and our actions
               stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns.
                                                                                                                                              corporate responsibility goal summary

     report profile
            a. reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information
     g4-28                                                                                                             p59           -        period covered
            provided.
     g4-29 a. date of most recent previous report (if any).                                                            p59           -        date of publication
     g4-30 a. reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial).                                                              p59           -        date of publication
                                                                                                                                              contact point (a website is
      g4-31 a. contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents.                                     cover page      -        also available: http://www.
                                                                                                                                              ibiden.com/utility/inquiry.html)
     gri content index
           a.’in accordance’ option the organization has chosen.
           b. gri content index for the chosen option (see tables below).
     g4-32                                                                                                           p61-66        -    this table
           c. reference to the external assurance report, if the report has been externally assured. gri recommends
           the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ’in accordance’ with the guidelines.
     assurance
           a. organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report.
           b. if not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, the scope and basis
           of any external assurance provided.                                                                      there is no information about the external assur-
     g4-33
           c. relationship between the organization and the assurance providers.                                    ance.
           d. whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for
           the organization’s sustainability report.

     governance
     governance structure and composition
           a. governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. iden-                            governance structure in our
     g4-34                                                                                                              p8           -
           tify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts.                                 group
           a. process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics                            p8                    governance structure in our group
     g4-35                                                                                                                           -
           from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees.                                                         risk management
           a. whether the organization has appointed an executive-level posi-                                          p11                    compliance
           tion or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and                                       p13                    organization chart of occupation-
     g4-36                                                                                                            p25-26         -        al health and safety management
           social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest
           governance body.                                                                                            p28                    environmental management
           a. processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance
     g4-37 body on economic,environmental and social topics. if consultation is delegated,                              p8           -        governance structure in our group
           describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body.
                                                                                                                       p8-9                   governance structure in our group
      g4-38 a. composition of the highest governance body and its committees.                                                        -
                                                                                                                       p58                    board of directors/organization
            a. whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his
      g4-39                                                                                                                          -
            or her function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement).
            a. nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees,                                         governance structure in our
      g4-40                                                                                                             p8           -
            and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members.                                               group


                                                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 62




53889312609.indd   62                                                                                                                                                         2014/09/29   10:38:46

                                                                                                                  ibiden co.,ltd. csr report 2014
                                  general standard disclosures
                                                                                                       pages        assurance          corresponding topics
             a. report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of                    p8                   governance structure in our group
             interest are avoided and managed.                                                             p9                   outside directors and outside corporate auditors
             report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including,              p13-16                 compliance
             as a minimum:                                                                                note                  note: *as partly disclosed on page
     g4-41                                                                                                             -
             ・cross-board membership                                                                                            33, “board of directors,” page 36,
             ・cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders                                                          “corporate governance,” and page
             ・existence of controlling shareholder                                                                              82, “related party transactions,” in the
             ・related party disclosures                                                                                         161st annual security report.
     highest governance body’s role in setting purpose, values, and strategy
             a. report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the
             development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value or
     g4-42                                                                                                p4-5         -        csr policy and promotional structure
             mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, envi-
             ronmental and social impacts.
     highest governance body’s competencies and performance evaluation
             a. report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest gover-
     g4-43 nance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social                          -          -
             topics.
             a. report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance
             with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. report
             whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. report whether such
     g4-44 evaluation is a self-assessment.                                                                 -          -
             b. report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s
             performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics,
             including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice.
     highest governance body’s role in risk management
             a. report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and man-
             agement of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportuni-
             ties. include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due                p4-5                  csr policy and promotional structure
     g4-45 diligence processes.                                                                            p6          -        dialogue and cooperation with stakeholders
             b. whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest gover-                   p11-12                 risk management
             nance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental and
             social impacts, risks, and opportunities.
             a. highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the
     g4-46 organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and                      p11-12        -        risk management
             social topics.
             a. frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environ-
     g4-47                                                                                               p11-12        -        risk management
             mental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities.
     highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting
             a. highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s                             process of determining report-
     g4-48                                                                                               p59-60        -
             sustainability report and ensures that all material aspects are covered.                                           ing items
     highest governance body’s role in economic, environmental, and social performance
                                                                                                           p8                   governance structure in our group
     g4-49 process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body.                   p11-12        -        risk management
                                                                                                         p13-16                 compliance
             nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the high-              p8                   governance structure in our group
     g4-50                                                                                                             -
             est governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them.                  p13-16                 compliance
     remuneration and incentives
             a. remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives.
                                                                                                                                compensation of directors
     g4-51 b. how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest gover-            p10          -
                                                                                                                                and corporate auditors
             nance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives.
             a. report the process for determining remuneration. report whether remuner-
             ation consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether they
     g4-52                                                                                                  -          -
             are independent of management. report any other relationships which the
             remuneration consultants have with the organization.
             a. report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remunera-
     g4-53                                                                                                  -          -
             tion, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable.
             a. ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individu-
     g4-54 al in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation             -          -
             for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country.
             a. ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organi-
             zation’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the
     g4-55                                                                                                  -          -
             median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees
             (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country.
     ethics and integrity
                                                                                                           p3                   ibiden way
             a. describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of be-                 p4                   csr policy and promotional structure
     g4-56                                                                                                             -
             havior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics.                                         p14                   compliance(standards for employ-
                                                                                                                                ee behavior)
                                                                                                        p14                     compliance
            a. report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical
                                                                                                                                (standards for employee behavior)
      g4-57 and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as                              -
                                                                                                        p15                     compliance
            helplines or advice lines.
                                                                                                                                (whistleblowing system)
               a. report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about
               unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity,                                 compliance
      g4-58                                                                                             p15            -
               such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or                                         (whistleblowing system)
               hotlines.


                                                                                         corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 63




53889312609.indd   63                                                                                                                                                    2014/09/29   10:38:46

    material aspects (material aspects for the group: material items) disclosed in specific standard disclosure
    items are selected based on the sustainability reporting guidelines.
       page numbers in which the material items are described on this report are shown below.
       exceptional material aspects for the company are in blue. material aspects that are not required for the
    guidelines are also described in the index table below.

                                                                                                                                       ibiden co., ltd. csr report 2014
           aspects                                       specific standard disclosures
                                                                                                                                    page assurance         corresponding topics
     category : economic
                                             a. report why the aspect is material. report the impacts that make this                   p3            challenge ibi-techno 105 plan
     management approach          aspect material.                                                                                    p4-5           csr policy and promotional structure
     (specific dmas for           b. report how the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts.                           p6            dialogue and cooperation with stakeholders
                           g4-dma c. report the evaluation of the management approach, including:                                    p8-18    -      internal control
     aspects are described        ・the mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach                       p11-12           risk management
     each aspect.）                ・the results of the evaluation of the management approach                                         p29-40           environmental management
                                             ・any related adjustments to the management approach                                    p54-55           corporate responsibility goal summary
                                                                                                                                      p10            timely disclosure, communication
                                                                                                                                                     with shareholders and investors
                                  g4-ec1 economic value generated and distributed                                                    p56      -      corporate information
                                                                                                                                     note            note: as described on page 43, “financial state-
     economic perfor-                                                                                                                                ments,” in the 161st annual security report.
     mance                                   financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s        p11-12           risk management
                                  g4-ec2 activities due to climate change                                                           p32-34
                                                                                                                                              -      coping with climate change issues
                                                                                                                                                     note: as described on page 71, “retirement
                                  g4-ec3 coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations                             note
                                                                                                                                                     benefits,” in the 161st annual security report.
                                  g4-ec4 financial assistance received from government
                                             ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local
                                  g4-ec5 minimum wage at significant locations of operation
     market presence
                                             proportion of senior management hired from the local community at
                                  g4-ec6 significant locations of operation
                                g4-ec7 development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported
     indirect economic impacts
                                g4-ec8 significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts
     procurement practices g4-ec9 proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation
     emergency countermeasures preparation for an emergency disaster                                                                p11-12    -      risk management

     category : environmental
     management approach                 a. why the aspect is material. report the impacts that make this aspect material.
                                                                                                                                    p26-40           environmental management
     (specific dmas for aspects g4-dma b. how the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts.                          p54-55
                                                                                                                                              -      corporate responsibility goal summary
     are described each aspect.）         c. evaluation of the management approach, including
                                  g4-en1 materials used by weight or volume
     materials                                                                                                                       p41      -      the ibiden group’s material balance (input and output)
                                  g4-en2 percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials
                                 g4-dma                                                                                             p32-34    -      coping with climate change issues
                                                                                                                                    p32-34           coping with climate change issues
                                  g4-en3 energy consumption within the organization                                                  p41
                                                                                                                                              -      the ibiden group’s material balance (input and output)
     energy                       g4-en4 energy consumption outside of the organization
                                  g4-en5 energy intensity                                                                           p32-34    -      coping with climate change issues
                                  g4-en6 reduction of energy consumption                                                            p32-34    -      coping with climate change issues
                                  g4-en7 reductions in energy requirements of products and services
                                                                                                                                     p35             coping with climate change issues
                                  g4-en8 total water withdrawal by source                                                            p41
                                                                                                                                              -      the ibiden group’s material balance (input and output)
                                                                                                                                     p35             coping with climate change issues
     water                        g4-en9 water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water                                 p41
                                                                                                                                              -      the ibiden group’s material balance (input and output)
                                                                                                                                                     coping with climate change issues
                                                                                                                                     p35
                                 g4-en10 percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused                                    p41
                                                                                                                                              -      the ibiden group’s material balance
                                                                                                                                                     (input and output)
                                             operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protect-
                                 g4-en11 ed areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas                       p37      -      understanding the influence on biodiversity
                                         description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity
                                 g4-en12 in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas
     biodiversity
                                 g4-en13 habitats protected or restored                                                              p37      -      understanding the influence on biodiversity
                                         total number of iucn red list species and national conservation list species
                                 g4-en14 with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk
                                 g4-dma                                                                                             p32-34    -      coping with climate change issues
                                                                                                                                    p32-34           coping with climate change issues
                                 g4-en15 direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 1)                                             p41
                                                                                                                                              -      the ibiden group’s material balance (input and output)
                                                                                                                                    p32-34           coping with climate change issues
                                 g4-en16 energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 2)                                    p41
                                                                                                                                              -      the ibiden group’s material balance (input and output)
     emissions                   g4-en17 other indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 3)                                     p41      -      the ibiden group’s material balance (input and output)
                                 g4-en18 greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions intensity                                                   p32-34    -      coping with climate change issues
                                 g4-en19 reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions                                                p32-34    -      coping with climate change issues
                                 g4-en20 emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ods)
                                 g4-en21 nox, sox, and other significant air emissions                                               p41      -      the ibiden group’s material balance (input and output)
                                 g4-en22 total water discharge by quality and destination                                            p41      -      the ibiden group’s material balance (input and output)
                                 g4-en23 total weight of waste by type and disposal method                                           p41      -      the ibiden group’s material balance (input and output)
                                                                                                                                                     environment and occupational health
                                 g4-en24 total number and volume of significant spills                                               p31      -      and safety-related laws and regulations
                                 weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed
     effluents and waste         hazardous under the terms of the basel
                         g4-en25 convention2 annex i, ii, iii, and viii, and percentage of transported
                                 waste shipped internationally
                                 identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies
                         g4-en26 and related habitats significantly affected by the organization’s dis-
                                 charges of water and runoff

                                                                                                           corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 64




53889312609.indd   64                                                                                                                                                                              2014/09/29   10:38:46

                                                                                                                                                                                                      ibiden co., ltd. csr report 2014
               aspects                                                             specific standard disclosures
                                                                                                                                                                                                   page assurance           corresponding topics
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    environmental contribution through
     products and ser-                         g4-en27 extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services                                                                p38      -      business and products
     vices
                                               g4-en28 percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category
                                                       monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary                                                                                         environment and occupational health
     compliance                                g4-en29
                                                       sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations
                                                                                                                                                                                                    p31      -      and safety-related laws and regulations
                                                       significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materi-
     transport                                 g4-en30
                                                       als for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce
     overall                                   g4-en31 total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type                                                                         p39-40    -      environmental accounting
                                                                                                                                                                                                    p36             appropriate chemical control
                                               g4-dma
                                                                                                                                                                                                    p38
                                                                                                                                                                                                             -      environmental contribution through business and products
     supplier environ-         percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental                                                                                                  p17-18           csr management in the supply chain
                       g4-en32                                                                                                                                                                               -
     mental assessment         criteria                                                                                                                                                             p36             appropriate chemical control
                                                               significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the                                                              p17-18           csr management in the supply chain
                                               g4-en33
                                                               supply chain and actions taken                                                                                                       p36
                                                                                                                                                                                                             -      appropriate chemical control
     environmental                                                                                                                                                                                 p15-18           csr management in the supply chain
                                                               number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed,
     grievance mecha-                          g4-en34
                                                               and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms
                                                                                                                                                                                                    p31      -      environment and occupational health and
     nisms                                                                                                                                                                                                          safety-related laws and regulations

     category : social sub-category : labor practices and decent work
     management approach               a. why the aspect is material. report the impacts that make this aspect material.                                                                           p19-28           human resource management
     (specific dmas for aspects g4-dma b. how the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts.                                                                                         p54-55    -      corporate responsibility goal
     are described each aspect.）       c. evaluation of the management approach                                                                                                                                     summary
                                               g4-dma                                                                                                                                               p20      -      respect for human rights
                                                       total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turn-                                                                                              philosophy for human resource man-
                                                g4-la1
                                                       over by age group, gender, and region
                                                                                                                                                                                                    p19      -      agement and promotional structure
     employment
                                                g4-la2 benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation
                                                g4-la3 return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender                                                                          p22-23    -      respecting diverse work styles
     labor/management relations                 g4-la4 minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements
                                                                                                                                                                                                   p25-26           measures for occupational health and safety
                                               g4-dma                                                                                                                                                        -      organization chart of occupational health and safety management
                                                                                                                                                                                                    p28             managing employee health
                                                       percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and                                                                       organization chart of occupational
                                                g4-la5
                                                       safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs
                                                                                                                                                                                                   p25-26    -      health and safety management
     occupational
     health and safety                                 type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absentee-                                                                          fiscal year 2013: activity guidelines for
                                                g4-la6
                                                       ism, and total number of workrelated fatalities, by region and by gender
                                                                                                                                                                                                   p26-27    -      occupational health and safety and results
                                                g4-la7 workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    fiscal year 2013: activity guidelines for
                                                g4-la8 health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade union                                                                      p26-27    -      occupational health and safety and results
                                                g4-la9 average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category                                                         p21-22    -      development of human resources
     training and educa- g4-la10 programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued                                                                                                    development of human resources
                                                                                                                                                                                                   p21-22
                                 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings                                                                                             p22-23
                                                                                                                                                                                                             -      respecting diverse work styles
     tion
                                                               percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career
                                               g4-la11
                                                               development reviews, by gender and by employee category
                                                                                                                                                                                                    p21      -      equitable evaluation and treatment

     diversity and equal                          composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category
                                          g4-la12
     opportunity                                  according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity
     equal remuneration for women and men g4-la13 ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation
                                               g4-la14 percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria                                                               p17-18    -      csr management in the supply chain
     supplier assessment for labor practices
                                               g4-la15 significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken                                  p20      -      respect for human rights
     labor practices grievance mechanisms g4-la16 number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms                                    p13-16    -      compliance
     personnel system and
                                          personnel evaluation system                                                                                                                               p21      -      equitable evaluation and treatment
     personnel evaluation
     working hours                        management of working hours                                                                                                                               p24      -      labor and management cooperation to create a worker-friendly workplace
     category : social sub-category : human rights
     management approach          a. why the aspect is material. report the impacts that make this                                                                                                 p13-16           compliance
     (specific dmas for           aspect material.                                                                                                                                                 p17-18           csr management in the supply chain
                           g4-dma b. how the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts.                                                                                                        -
     aspects are described                                                                                                                                                                         p19-28           human resource management
     each aspect.）                c. evaluation of the management approach                                                                                                                         p54-55           corporate responsibility goal summary
                                                               total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights
                                                g4-hr1 clauses or that underwent human rights screening
     investment
                                                               total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights
                                                g4-hr2 that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained                                                               p20      -      respect for human rights

                                                       total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions                                                                          p13-16           compliance
     non-discrimination                         g4-hr3 taken                                                                                                                                                 -      respect for human rights
                                                                                                                                                                                                    p20
     freedom of association                                    operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collec-
                                                g4-hr4 tive bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights
     and collective bargaining
                                                               operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child
     child labor                                g4-hr5 labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor                                                            p20      -      respect for human rights

     forced or compul-                                 operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulso-
                                                g4-hr6 ry labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor                                           p20      -      respect for human rights
     sory labor
                                                               percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human
     security practices                         g4-hr7 rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations
                                                               total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous
     indigenous rights                          g4-hr8 peoples and actions taken
                                                               total number and percentage of operations that have been subject
     assessment                                 g4-hr9 to human rights reviews or impact assessments
                                                                                                                                                                                                   p17-18           csr management in the supply chain
                                               g4-dma                                                                                                                                                        -      respect for human rights
                                                                                                                                                                                                    p20
     supplier human                                                                                                                                                                                p17-18
                                                               percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights                                                                                    csr management in the supply chain
     rights assessment                         g4-hr10 criteria                                                                                                                                              -      respect for human rights
                                                                                                                                                                                                    p20
                                       g4-hr11 significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken                                                 p20      -      respect for human rights
     human rights grievance mechanisms g4-hr12 number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms                                  p13-16    -      compliance

                                                                                                                                                               corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 65




53889312609.indd          65                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2014/09/29    10:38:46

                                                                                                                   ibiden co., ltd. csr report 2014
           aspects                             specific standard disclosures
                                                                                                                page assurance       corresponding topics
     category : social sub-category : society
     management ap-
     proach                                                                                                     p13-16           compliance
                                  a. why the aspect is material. report the impacts that make this
                                                                                                                p17-18           csr management in the supply chain
     (specific dmas               aspect material.
                           g4-dma                                                                               p47-51    -      social contribution
     for aspects are              b. how the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts.
                                                                                                                p54-55           corporate responsibility goal
     described each               c. evaluation of the management approach
                                                                                                                                 summary
     aspect.）
                                                                                                                                 environment and occupational
                                                                                                                                 health and safety-related laws and
                                                                                                                 p31
                           g4-dma                                                                                         -      regulations
                                                                                                                p47-48
                                                                                                                                 philosophy for social contribution
                                                                                                                                 and promotional structure
     local communities
                                     percentage of operations with implemented local community engage-
                            g4-so1                                                                              p47-51    -      social contribution
                                     ment, impact assessments, and development programs
                                                                                                                                 environment and occupational
                                     operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on
                            g4-so2                                                                               p31      -      health and safety-related laws and
                                     local communities
                                                                                                                                 regulations
                           g4-dma                                                                               p13-16    -      compliance
                                   total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related
                            g4-so3                                                                              p11-12    -      risk management
                                   to corruption and the significant risks identified
     anti-corruption
                                   communication and training on anti-corruption policies and proce-
                            g4-so4                                                                              p13-16    -      compliance
                                   dures
                            g4-so5 confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken                          p13-16    -      compliance
                                   total value of political contributions by country and recipient/benefi-
     public policy          g4-so6
                                   ciary
     anti-competitive                total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust,
                            g4-so7                                                                              p13-16    -      compliance
     behavior                        and monopoly practices and their outcomes
                                   monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary
     compliance             g4-so8                                                                              p13-16    -      compliance
                                   sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations
                                   percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for
     supplier assess-       g4-so9                                                                              p17-18    -      csr management in the supply chain
                                   impacts on society
     ment for impacts
                                   significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the          p13-16           compliance
     on society            g4-so10                                                                                        -
                                   supply chain and actions taken                                               p17-18           csr management in the supply chain
     grievance mecha-
                                     number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and
     nisms for impacts     g4-so11                                                                              p13-16    -      compliance
                                     resolved through formal grievance mechanisms
     on society
     category : social sub-category : society
     management ap-                                                                                             p13-16           compliance
     proach                       a. why the aspect is material. report the impacts that make this              p17-18           csr management in the supply chain
     (specific dmas               aspect material.                                                              p52-53           quality management that supports
                           g4-dma                                                                                         -
     for aspects are              b. how the organization manages the material aspect or its impacts.                            customers-first values
     described each               c. evaluation of the management approach                                      p54-55           corporate responsibility goal
     aspect.）                                                                                                                    summary
                                   percentage of significant product and service categories for which
                            g4-pr1
                                   health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement
     customer health
                                   total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and
     and safety
                            g4-pr2 voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products
                                   and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes
                                   type of product and service information required by the organization’
                                   s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and per-
                            g4-pr3
                                   centage of significant product and service categories subject to such
     product and service           information requirements
     labeling                      total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and
                            g4-pr4 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and
                                   labeling, by type of outcomes
                            g4-pr5 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction
                            g4-pr6 sale of banned or disputed products
     marketing commu-                total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and
     nications              g4-pr7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including
                                   advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes
                                   total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of
     customer privacy       g4-pr8                                                                              p13-16    -      compliance
                                   customer privacy and losses of customer data
                                   monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and
     compliance             g4-pr9
                                   regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services
     conflict minerals     responding to conflict minerals                                                      p17-18    -      csr management in the supply chain




                                                                                          corporate social responsibility report2014, ibiden co., ltd. 66




53889312609.indd   66                                                                                                                                          2014/09/29   10:38:46

                                                     www.ibiden.com
                                                          contact point

                                                      csr promotion division
                                                    2-1, kanda-cho, ogaki city,
                                                       gifu 503-8604, japan
                                                      tel. +81 584 81-3147
                                                      fax. +81 584 81-2395




      please use the survey from always available on our web site to tell us what you think.




53889312609.indd   67                                                                          2014/09/29   10:38:46
