                                             2011
                       corporate social responsibility report




53889312309.indd   1                                  2011/10/28   17:07:45

    con tents

    top message                               ………………………………………………………………………………………                                                       2
                       editorial policy       ………………………………………………………………………………………                                                       3


                              s csr management ……………………………………………………………………………… 4
              the ibiden group’
                       corporate philosophy／consolidated medium-term management plan ………                                4
                       csr policy and scope of activity                                                      ………        5
                       dialogue and cooperation with stakeholders                                            ………        6
                       external corporate evaluation／assessment by third-party organizations and our actions ………        6
              internal control                  ………………………………………………………………………………                                                        7
                       basic approach to corporate governance                ……… 7
                       summary of the existing corporate governance systems／
                       corporate governance related to other csr promotions  ……… 8
                       diagram of corporate governance system／
                       compensation of directors and corporate auditors      ……… 9
                       risk management                                       ……… 10
                       csr management in the supply chain                    ……… 11
                       compliance                                            ……… 12
                       bolstering compliance activities                      ……… 13
              human resource management ……………………………………………………………………………… 14
                       respect for human rights／employment and development of human resources ………                       14
                       respecting diverse work styles                                         ………                       15
                       labor and management cooperation to create a worker-friendly workplace ………                       17
                       occupational health and safety policy／
                       organization chart of occupational health and safety management ………                              18
                       measures for safety／managing employee health                           ………                       19
              environmental management                    ……………………………………………………………………………… 20
                       environmental policy／organization chart of environmental management ………                  20
                       management system certification status／
                                                                                                            ……… 21
                       environment and occupational health and safety-related laws and regulations
                       coping with climate change issues                                                    ……… 22
                       resource circulation                                                                 ……… 24
                       appropriate chemical control                                                         ……… 25
                       understanding the influence on biodiversity                                          ……… 26
                       environmental contribution through products                                          ……… 27
                       environmental accounting                                                             ……… 28
                       the ibiden group's material balance (input and output)                               ……… 30
                       environmental data for individual plants and group companies – compliance management ……… 31
              social contribution                   ……………………………………………………………………………… 35
                       basic policy／forest building activities:“ibiden’        s forest”               ……… 35
                       how to promote social contribution activities／protecting the global environment ……… 36
                       fostering the next generation                                                   ……… 37
                       contributing to social welfare and local communities                            ……… 38
                       disaster relief activities／encouraging volunteerism                             ……… 39
              social responsibility for products    ……………………………………………………………………………… 40
                       quality management that supports customers-first values／quality assurance system ……… 40

              corporate responsibility goal summary   ………………………………………………………………………………                                                  41
              corporate information                   ………………………………………………………………………………                                                  43
              gri index table                         ………………………………………………………………………………                                                  46



                                                                           corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd.   1



53889312309.indd   1                                                                                                                 2011/11/16   15:38:42

    t op m essag e

     ibiden will sustain its growth anchored on csr-oriented management calibrated to suit globalization.
    on behalf of the ibiden group, i would like to express our deepest
    condolences to the people who have lost loved ones in the earth-
    quake and tsunami that struck eastern japan on march 11, and to
    extend our sympathy to everyone who was affected by the tragedy.
    we remain committed to assisting to the best of our ability with the
    post-disaster reconstruction and recovery efforts in the devastated
    areas.
       the ibiden group was spared direct damage with significant
    consequences to its production. nevertheless, having drawn valu-
    able lessons from the recent disaster, the task force for risk man-
    agement is reviewing the group’s contingency planning designed to
    prevent and reduce disaster-induced damages and administer quick
    responses when a disaster strikes, in an effort to further enhance our
    business continuity capabilities.
    aiming at sustainable growth beyond our centennial anniversary
    the ibiden group is putting into action the“global ibi-techno 100
    plan.”this medium-term management plan, which runs through
    fiscal 2012—ibiden’   s centennial year—aims to instill the dynamism
    and corporate culture that will enable us to achieve sustainable
    growth and stable profits for the next 100 years. one of the pillars of         president & ceo
    the plan is“implement csr management”, which we are putting in
    place with the full participation of all officers and employees across
    the group. our approach to csr management calls for manage-
    ment practice underscored by a high degree of reliability and transparency for the benefit of stakeholders, based
    on our belief that this path ensures sustainable growth beyond our centennial year, toward the next milestone of
    the company’s bicentennial anniversary.
        to encourage csr management in workplace, the ibiden group charter of behavior was revised in july 2011,
    after rounds of discussions during fiscal year 2010 aimed at giving concrete form to the ideal envisioned by the
    group. the new charter, an extension of our“ibiden way”made more suitable for day-to-day applications, sum-
    marizes this ideal. the charter also serves as the base for our future activities, including discussions on the organiza-
    tional mechanisms that should be enhanced and placed under management, and the execution of specific actions
    to reach the ideal state of operations. in addition, employees’conduct is governed by a separate set of standards
    known as“ibiden standards for employee behavior”.

    recalibrating for globalization
    as overseas operations now account for more than 75% of the group’s net sales, we are opting for increased ef-
    forts in the path to globalization. to boost local production and accelerate the localization of our overseas plants by
    local management teams, it is essential to foster personnel capable of successfully negotiating the shift to globaliza-
    tion. the global human resource strategy serves as the basis for enhancing competitiveness across the group.
        our behavior charter also addresses human rights, anti-corruption and other universal ethical principles, with
    which fuller compliance is called for by the international community. the entire ibiden group continues to base its
    actions on the charter in an effort to become an organization completely trusted by its stakeholders in the interna-
    tional community and to achieve further growth.

    advancing csr-oriented management in step with stakeholders
    to be a trusted partner in the international community, we need to initiate and maintain dialogues with our stake-
    holders and undertake actions by working closely with them beyond the confines of our group. equally important
    is our challenge of building a reliable supply chain system with suppliers to achieve the consistent delivery of our
    products and services. for this reason, this fiscal year we formulated a set of csr guidelines designed for our suppli-
    ers, as their cooperation is essential for the successful upgrading of our supply chain.
        the ibiden group continues its proactive disclosure of information on its financial condition, products and csr
    and promotes transparent management practice in an attempt to help stakeholders gain a greater understanding
    of how the group is run and decisions are made. all members of the group are working vigorously and whole-
    heartedly to build csr-oriented management with a high degree of reliability and transparency. we hope you will
    get to know the group’s range of undertakings discussed in this report, and we welcome your feedback and opin-
    ions.



                                                                     corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd.   2



53889312309.indd   2                                                                                                           2011/11/16   15:38:44

    e ditorial po l i cy

    the ibiden 2011 csr report, covering mainly the environmental and social aspects of the ibiden group,
    is published to inform stakeholders about the ibiden group’s csr activities in an easy-to-understand
    format. in recognition of the fact that csr is closely linked to our corporate management, this report
    focuses on the key themes based on matters of interest to our stakeholders and our four themes―in-
    ternal control, human resource management, environmental management, and social contribution—in-
    cluding in“implement csr management”which is one of the pillars of our medium-term management
    plan. this report contains detailed information for our stakeholders on the group’s policies and mea-
    sures with regard to each theme and task.


     period covered
    this report focuses primarily on activities during fiscal year 2010 (april 1, 2010 to march 31, 2011), but also includes
    details of selected ongoing initiatives and more recent activities.


     date of publication

    november 2011 (previous report: september 2010, next report: september 2012)


     coverage

    as a rule, the contents of this report relate to ibiden co., ltd. (“we”/“ibiden”/“the company”) and do-
    mestic and overseas companies belonging to the ibiden group. parts of this report that do not relate to the
    ibiden group (“the group”) are specified on an individual basis. selected environment data are only appli-
    cable to ibiden’s domestic premises. such data are marked as“ibiden domestic premises”and include
    ibiden co., ltd. and selected domestic group companies. environmental performance date for the group’s
    operations centers on main production bases as bellow:
          ・domestic premises…ogaki plant, ogaki central plant, aoyanagi plant, gama plant, ogaki kita plant,
                                  godo plant, kinuura plant and including some domestic group which are cov-
                                  ered by ibiden’ s management system.
          ・domestic group companies…ibiden jushi co., ltd.(“jushi”), ibiden bussan co., ltd.(“bussan”)
          ・overseas group companies…ibiden electronics (beijing) co., ltd.[“ieb”] , ibiden philippines, inc.[“ipi”],
    		                                     ibiden hungary kft. [“ihu”], ibiden dpf france s.a.s. [“idfs”]


     guidelines used as reference

    sustainability reporting guidelines (third edition), global reporting initiative (gri)
    environmental reporting guidelines (fiscal year 2007 version), ministry of the environment
    environmental reporting guidelines (fiscal year 2005 version), ministry of the environment
    note: a gri guideline comparison table can be found at the end of the report.


     supplementary information regarding the contents

    this report is intended for the stakeholders who are highly interested in csr. the contents of the report con-
    sist of our stakeholders’interests, the items for which they have great expectations or demands, and the mat-
    ters for which the group recognizes its responsibility.


     disclosure of csr information

    the ibiden group’s csr report is published on our website. we will
    update social and environmental information in an appropriate man-
    ner.


            website        http://www.ibiden.com/csr/



                                                                     corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd.   3



53889312309.indd   3                                                                                                           2011/11/16   15:38:46

                    s csr management
    the ibiden group’

    corpor ate philo so p hy

    ibiden way


                              our motto                           ibiden way
                               integrity
                              harmony                  we respect humanity and nature
                              positivity
                                                                                                                our virtues
                                                           respect for               harmony
                                                            humanity                with nature


                                       customers                                                           pursuit of
                                         first                                                           “ibi-techno”
                                                           corporate philosophy
                                                         we respect humanity and nature
                                                   we create new values together with customers
                                                   we contribute to constant social advancement



                                                                                                    direct
                                               challenge                                          observation
                                                                         teamwork

                                                                                                                our principles

                                                           employee’s code of conduct




    the power that has enabled ibiden“to overcome many adversities with all our employees and to continue to
    exist,”and“the wisdom and vitality that have achieved dramatic growth in recent years”—
    these have persisted throughout ibiden’   s long history of nearly 100 years.
    the systematization that carries this on, transcending borders, is the“ibiden way.”
       while respecting people and the global environment, we create new value together with our customers.
    further, the hearts of our employees throughout the entire group are united in our efforts to contribute to
    sustained development of society.




    con soli d ated m ed i um-ter m m a n a g e me n t pl a n

    we will implement“global ibi-techno 100 plan”
    and establish a business structure that achieves sustainable
    growth as well as stable profitability.

                                                                                                                                      strengthen and
    at the ibiden group, we continue to propose new val-                                                                         rebuild our core business
    ue to our customers based on ibi-techno philosophy                                                                               competitiveness
    of“creating new technology by fusing and combining
    our own innovative core technologies.”
        in accordance with“global ibi-techno 100 plan”                                                               cultivate our
                                                                                                                  new third business
    as our consolidated medium-term management plan,
                                                                                                                   after electronics
    we are making ibi-techno evolve yet further, estab-                                                             and ceramics
    lishing“ibiden innovative business model,”and mak-
    ing efforts intended to further augment our competitive
    strengths. in addition, by practicing management                                        implement csr
    grounded in corporate social responsibility, the group                                   management
    intends to achieve a continuing existence and to con-
    tribute to the development of society.

                                                                                                          three pillars of our activities


                                                                                    corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd.             4



53889312309.indd   4                                                                                                                                   2011/11/16   15:38:48

    cs r p o l i cy and sc o p e o f ac tiv it y

    ibiden group charter of behavior
    in order to implement csr management under our corporate philosophy, the“ibiden way,”we have revised
    the ibiden group charter of behavior by reflecting our roles as a global corporation as well as requests from
    our stakeholders. to achieve the goals for the entire group, we will promote activities for putting medium-
    term goals into practice.

                         charter of behavior                    medium-term targets                            action plans
                         (goals for the group)


                   article 1: compliance with laws, regulations, and ethics
                   we comply with laws, regulations and ethical requirements of the countries and regions where its business opera-
                   tions are based. we work against corruption in all its forms, and carry out open and fair corporate activities with
                   the intention of becoming a company that enjoys the confidence of the international community. we also protect
                   and properly manage personal and customer data and other types of information.
                   article 2: development together with stakeholders
                   we develop together with our stakeholders, so we enhance the transparency of management and build a trust-
                   worthy relationship through communication. we also actively engage in community-based activities that contrib-
                   ute to society as a good corporate citizen.
                   article 3: providing customer delight
                   we provide customer delight, so we have a good understanding of social trends, future needs and develop. we
                   provide safe and secure products and services to maximize our customer's satisfaction by growing ibi-techno.
                   article 4: management based on global standards
                   we manage our group based on global standards. we respect human rights and other international norms
                   of behavior. also, we respect culture and customs in each country or region concerned when carrying out
                   our corporate activity.
                   article 5: harmony with nature
                   we harmonize with nature in all areas of our corporate activities. we manage to develop technologies to
                   achieve good balance between the environment and business, and we provide environmentally friendly
                   products and services by promoting energy and resource conservation activities.
                   article 6: attractive and vibrant company
                   we aim to become an attractive and vibrant company on the basis of fair, equitable and result oriented employee
                   evaluation personnel system. we aim to have a safe and comfortable working environment. we create a reward-
                   ing corporate culture that the employee can respect for each diversity, and fully exercise their skills and abilities.


      ＜csr policy＞
      we aim to enhance our corporate value
      ・by raising awareness of the need for ibiden to act responsibly and honestly in the interest of sustainable operations
      ・by fulfilling our responsibilities in a well-balanced manner from an economic, environmental and social standpoint
      ・by working in partnership with all of our stakeholders.

                                                                       employees

                                            customers                                                suppliers
                                                                    human resource
                                                                     management


                               shareholders/                        internal control                             local
                                 investors                                                                    communities
                                                    environmental                     social
                                                     management                     contribution




                                                                 global environment                 <conceptual diagram of csr management>

    based on our four themes of internal control (such as corporate governance, compliance and risk manage-
    ment), human resource management, environmental management, and social contribution, we will implement
    activities in a wide range of areas and build a trustworthy relationship with all stakeholders.
                                                                                   corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd.   5



53889312309.indd     5                                                                                                                       2011/11/16   15:38:48

    dia l og ue and c o o p era tio n wit h s t a k e h o l d e r s

    since its operations began as a hydroelectric
    power generation business that provided elec-
    tricity to the community, the ibiden group
    has won the support of all residents in the
    community as well as many other people. the
    group builds a trustworthy relationship with
    all stakeholders through communications to
    ensure sustainable development in the future.
                                                          community risk communication          safety training session for suppliers



    e xternal c o r po r ate ev a lua tio n

    in recent years, attention has increasingly focused on socially responsible investment (sri), referring to corpo-
    rate investment from a social perspective, taking into account considerations such as the environment and so-
    cial contribution rather than concentrating exclusively on profitability and other corporate and financial targets.
        having been evaluated by an sri evaluation organization, we have been selected for inclusion in the dow
    jones sustainability indexes (djsi world, djsi asia pacific) morningstar’   s sri index. furthermore, ibiden was
    selected for the bronze class in the csr rating by sam (sustainable asset management), a representative sri
    evaluation company, in fiscal year 2010 (as of june 2011).




    assessm ent by thir d -p a r ty o r g a n iz a t io n s a n d o u r ac t i o n s

    in order to objectively assess the status of csr management, the ibiden group receives the“sustainable
    management assessment”from the sustainable management forum of japan, an incorporated nonprofit orga-
    nization. in march 2010, we underwent an assessment in the field of management and society. evidence of
    our activities was checked by us and the organization, and an evaluation of our activity level was completed.
        as a result, we received an evaluation saying that our activities in the field of management, such as corpo-
    rate philosophy, compliance, risk management, and corporate governance“more or less meet the sustainable
    level”proposed by the organization. in the field of society in which factors such as human resources and so-
    cial contribution were evaluated, on the other hand, we were evaluated as“on the way to a sustainable lev-
    el,”with some improvements to be made pointed out.
        furthermore, in fiscal year 2010, we analyzed the data of a survey conducted by an external evaluation or-
    ganization and identified the distance from our goals. at the same time, we took actions to deal with the csr-
    related auditing implemented by a third-party organization and confirmed the gap between demanding stan-
    dards of the global industry and the ibiden group’     s efforts.
        on receiving these results, we accepted with sincerity the matters pointed out by these organizations and
    the need to further improve the efforts by developing in-house regulations and procedures in terms of labor
    and human rights, providing thorough education, and promoting greater cooperation with the local communi-
    ty. we will continue to cooperate with external organizations in the future, with the aim of ensuring the fair-
    ness of our activities, and we will reflect the results in the activities.



                                                                  corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd.     6



53889312309.indd   6                                                                                                           2011/11/16   15:38:49

    internal control

      basic approach to corporate governance

    (1) objective
    our group defines corporate governance as a critical management issue for increasing corporate value
    through sustainable growth. the entire group is actively committed to improving corporate governance.
       by strengthening our internal control functions through proactively developing“activities for advancing
    compliance and risk management”with an involvement of all officers and employees and by augmenting and
    strengthening the management-oversight functions of our board of directors and the audit functions of our au-
    ditors, we are creating a transparent corporate control system that can accommodate the reliance of our
    shareholders and society.

    (2) governance structure in our group
    to ensure the appropriateness and fairness of business conducted by the ibiden group companies, ibiden
    has suggested to the heads of the group companies a structure designed to advance compliance and risk
    management similar to its own. at group information exchange meetings, it keeps abreast of their actions ad-
    vocating compliance and risk management, their status of management and progress made to meet the tar-
    gets mapped out in their plans for profit generation.

    (3) overview of corporate governance
    to ensure fair and highly transparent management, ibiden invites two persons to serve as outside directors
    on the company’s board of directors to reflect their advice in the management of the company. the maxi-
    mum number of directors is set at 18, while the term of each director is limited to one year to clarify manage-
    ment accountability of each director, strengthen management practices and enhance the agility needed to im-
    plement optimal management practices in quick response to the changing business environment. an executive
    officer system has been introduced to allow swift managerial decision-making and accelerated business exe-
    cution.
        ibiden has elected to operate as a company with corporate directors and a board of corporate auditors.
    in conducting day-to-day business, appropriate and efficient execution of duties by a person authorized to
    make approvals is ensured by the introduction and utilization of electronic approval-processing tools, which
    are used for ordinary approvals and approvals for capital investment.

    (4) relationships with stakeholders and timely disclosure
    aware of its mission to increase corporate value and meet shareholder expectations, the group understands
    that it must fulfill its responsibilities with respect to employees, local residents, local communities, business
    partners, investors, and other non-shareholding stakeholders. for this reason, we have instituted the disclo-
    sure regulations to facilitate proper assessments of our group. our aim is to help stakeholders understand
    the group and to win their broad consent to reconciling their interests of different stakeholder groups. with
    the decision of the disclosure committee, consisting chiefly of the president and the director responsible for
    finance sections, management information is disclosed in a fair, timely, and appropriate manner.




                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd.   7



53889312309.indd   7                                                                                                       2011/11/16   15:38:50

      summary of the existing corporate governance systems

    summary of the existing system and reasons for the use of the existing system
    with regard to the operation of the board of directors, we have asked two outside directors to join and pro-
    vide their management advice in an effort to realize fair, highly transparent management. for the designation
    and determination of remuneration, we also have in place fair, transparent procedures. ibiden clarifies the di-
    rectors’management responsibility and strives to strengthen the management structure. a director’s term of
    office is set at one year to respond to changes in the business environment and build an optimum, flexible
    management structure. furthermore, ibiden has introduced an executive officer system to facilitate speedy
    management decision-making and further acceleration of business operations. as for the decision-making by
    the board of directors and business operations by the president and ceo, they are audited by the board of
    auditors, and each auditor has the ability to take strict action.
    matters related to outside directors
    two outside directors are appointed to ensure their contribution to ibiden’    s appropriate corporate gover-
    nance as well as their advisory functions for the corporate code of conduct. they work in an appropriate man-
    ner to make necessary statements with regard to the agenda and discussion at the board of directors meet-
    ings, taking actions required to fulfill the above-mentioned objectives.
    measures to enhance auditors’functions
    auditors participate in major meetings, such as the board of directors and the management conference, and
    audit the execution of their duties. furthermore, in collaboration with the audit division, which is the internal au-
    diting division, as well as accounting auditors, full-time auditors conduct audits for ibiden and group companies
    based on existing laws and provisions.
    description regarding the status of ensuring independent officers
    at ibiden, two outside directors and two outside auditors are appointed as independent officers. this is be-
    cause ibiden has judged that they will contribute to the appropriate corporate governance and advice on the
    corporate code of conduct, and there is no conflict of interest with general shareholders.
       in addition to the corporate governance structure described above, the company has set up a manage-
    ment conference to fortify its structure. composed of parties responsible for management decisions and busi-
    ness execution such as representative directors, directors, executive officers and managing officers, in addition
    to full-time corporate auditors, the management conference is authorized to conduct advance deliberations
    on matters to be placed on the agenda of the board of directors and is authorized, under the company’s
    rules on authorizations, to approve such items. it also deliberates and makes decisions on important matters
    including management of the progress made in yearly and monthly budgets and managerial issues.

          s executive structure is listed in the“company profile”on page 45 and the schematic diagram of the corporate governance
    ibiden’
    systems on the next page.



      corporate governance related to other csr promotions

    ibiden group charter of behavior and corporate governance
    recognizing that efforts on a companywide scale, including management, are required to achieve the spirit of
    the group’s charter of behavior, ibiden encourages both internal personnel and group companies and suppli-
    ers to comply thoroughly with the charter while the management takes the initiative in setting an example.
    furthermore, we continually grasp internal and external feedback in order to establish an effective in-house
    organization. should a condition arise that is contrary to the charter, the management will work to resolve the
    issue and clarify its attitude internally and externally, seek to identify the cause and prevent a recurrence.
    moreover, we will disclose information to the public promptly and appropriately and ensure accountability to
    the public, taking strict actions once authority and responsibility are clarified.

    appointment of a management person responsible for promotion in each division
    a management person responsible for promotion is appointed in each division. he or she plays a role in pro-
    moting csr activities and compliance in the relevant division, supervising the practice of compliance, providing
    education to members of the division and reducing and reporting compliance violations that occur in the divi-
    sion.
       ibiden holds the csr promotional manager meeting, in which officers responsible for its promotion gather
    four times a year. at the meeting, we confirm the items promoted companywide and their progress and share
    examples of promotion activities implemented at plants and group companies.



                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd.   8



53889312309.indd   8                                                                                                             2011/11/16   15:38:50

      diagram of corporate governance system

                                                                                                                           shareholders meeting

                                appointment/removal                                                                                    appointment/removal                                                         appointment/removal
                                                                                                                                                                        report
                                                                                                                                                                report/cooperation
           board of directors directors                                                                             board of corporate auditors                                                              accounting auditors
                                                                                                                          audit auditors                     approval of appointment/
                                                                     audit
             supervision                                                                                                                                     removal and interpretation of
                                                                                                                                              direction      proper audit                                    direction




                                  discuss questions/                 audit
                                  report
                                                                 order                                                          risk management company-wide                                     compliance company-wide
             management conference
                                                                             csr promotion division


                                                                                                                                     promotional committee                                         promotional committee
      representative directors (executive oﬃcer)            report
         standing auditors (executive oﬃcer)
                  executive oﬃcers
                                                                                                                                  executive oﬃcer in charge of                          executive oﬃcer in charge of compliance
                                                                                                                                       risk management                                (managing oﬃcer in charge of csr promotion)
             supervision                                                                                                   (managing oﬃcer in charge of csr promotion)
                                  discuss
                                  questions/
                                  report

                                                                                                                                       departments in charge of
                                                                                                                                                                                                    compliance counter
                                                                                                      corporation




      president & ceo (direct management)                                                                                               each risk management
        executive oﬃcer of each business
          (division of executive authority)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  compliance committee*
                                               report                audit                                                                                                                        reward and disciplinary committee*
                                                               auditor division
                                                                                                                                                                                                  information security committee
                                                                                                                                                                                                  security and trade management committee
                                                                                                                                                                                                  insider trade controlling framework
                                                                                                                                                                                                  disclosure committee



     execution of operation/
                  supervision                                        audit                                     audit           order                                                    order                                               audit

                                                                     each business and function department ・each company in the group

                                                                                                                                                                                   *established on an ad hoc basis when related issues arise




      compensation of directors and corporate auditors

    total remuneration of directors and corporate auditors by classification, total remuneration by type, and num-
    ber of directors and corporate auditors receiving remuneration.
                                                            all directors                                              external directors only                          all auditors                          external auditors only
            classification                 number of recipients amount paid number of recipients amount paid number of recipients amount paid number of recipients amount paid
                                             (persons) (millions of yen) (persons) (millions of yen) (persons) (millions of yen) (persons) (millions of yen)
       basic remuneration                           13                   324                                              2                    18                   5                    69                         2                        15
                bonuses                                 9                116                                               -                    -                   -                        -                       -                         -
           stock options                            11                         79                                         2                    10                   -                        -                       -                         -
                   total                                                 519                                                                   28                                        69                                                  15

    1．the number of individuals receiving payments mentioned above included two directors and one auditor who retired at the conclusion of
      the 157th general shareholders’meeting held on june 22, 2010.
    2．the resolution setting the upper limit of remuneration for the directors at not more than ¥45 million per month was approved at the 154th
      general shareholders’meeting held on june 22, 2007. of the total, the amount for outside directors accounts for ¥3 million or less, with
      the remaining ¥42 million or less paid to the other directors. compensation under stock option plans is set separately. salary for directors
      as company employees is also excluded from the figures.
    3．in addition to the remuneration and the compensation under stock option mentioned above in 2, at the 155th general shareholders’meet-
      ing held on june 24, 2008, the resolution was approved stipulating that directors, excluding the outside directors, are to receive as bonus
      equal to 0.3% of the consolidated net income for the fiscal year as well as 1.0% of the total amount of annual dividends for the applicable
      fiscal year. however, the maximum limit was also set at not more than ¥400 million by the resolution with amounts less than ¥1 million be-
      ing rounded down.
    4．the maximum limit of remuneration for corporate auditors was approved at not more than ¥6 million per month at the 145th general share-
      holders’meeting held on june 24, 1998.
    5．with regard to 116 million yen, the amount paid as the directors’bonus mentioned above, the payment was decided at the board of direc-
      tors meeting held on may 18, 2011.
    6．in addition to the amount paid mentioned above, 1 million yen has been reported, for a director of the company, as current expenses relat-
      ed to the stock option granted when he or she was an employee.
    7．in addition to the amount paid mentioned above, 47 million yen has been paid to the two directors of the company who concurrently serve
      as the directors of the company’s subsidiaries as basic remuneration during the current period in relation to the two subsidiaries concerned.

                                                                                                                                                    corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd.                                        9



53889312309.indd     9                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2011/11/16   15:38:50

      risk management

    basic approach
    with respect to risks to corporate value that can have major impact on the smooth management of opera-
    tions by the group, we enable continuation of operations by reducing and preventing recurrence of loss of
    corporate value for all stakeholders.

    action plan
    1．	we devote efforts to maintaining the safety and health of employees and business partners and to con-
        serving operating resources.
    2．	we conduct ourselves so as not to impinge upon the safety, health, or profits of our shareholders, custom-
        ers, and local and international society.
    3．	in cases where risk is manifested, we work to achieve prompt response and recovery through responsible
        action.
    4．	we reflect social demands related to risk in our risk management.
    5．	we provide required information in order to avoid or reduce possible damage caused by misunderstand-
        ing and a lack of understanding.

    structure for advancing risk management
    the group has established risk management regulations to create a risk management structure, emergency
    countermeasure and evaluation of its performance. we also created the risk management company-wide
    promotional committee, which is tasked with improving risk management. the risk management company-
    wide promotional committee is responsible for considering and deciding on general risk management issues.
    it also examines and monitors the progress of actions to address major risks. to execute the policy endorsed
                                                                                         s circumstances and busi-
    by this committee, a risk owner is appointed to carry out activities geared to ibiden’
    ness model, as well as with those of its group firms.



                                           risk management company-wide promotional committee
                        (directors, executive oﬃcers, standing auditors, unit managers and manager of audit division)
           function               deliberation and decision making on risk management, etc.


                                                                                                                             administration oﬃce
                                                                                                                            csr promotion division
                   audit division




               business                                                             financial aﬀairs      development and
                                                                                                                                     energy supply
              opportunity               systems risks       legal aﬀairs risks        and funding       intellectual property
                 risks                                                                   risks                   risks                    risks

            business sections          information system   legal aﬀairs sections   finance sections    intellectual                 energy control
                                       sections                                                         property sections            sections


                                       human resource
                                                                                    environmental
            overseas risks                and labor          disaster risks                                                              new risks
                                            risks                                        risks

                                                            environment &
            overseas enterprises and   human resources                              environment &                                    related sections
                                                            safety and general
            general aﬀair sections     sections             aﬀairs sections         safety sections




                                   business sections, functional sections, domestic and overseas group companies
                                                                                                             *a promotion manager appointed at each section




                                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 10




53889312309.indd   10                                                                                                                                         2011/11/16   15:38:50

    addressing risks
    the ibiden group undertakes risk management activities so that we may continue to reliably conduct our
    business operations. we regularly detect and assess risks to reduce risks in important areas: operational divi-
    sions are working on the risks related to strengthening our business competitive edge, while functional divi-
    sions are addressing the risks bringing serious repercussions to the company’s business. in fiscal year 2010,
    focusing on the risk of legal violation as a companywide risk, we built a legal compliance system and imple-
    mented measures for managing legal compliance at each functional division.
        as for measures to be taken when disasters such as earthquakes occur, we believe that lifesaving comes
    first, followed by the early supply of products to customers. to prepare for earthquakes, we not only check
    each building’s resistance to earthquakes but also determine the items, matters and divisions for actions to be
    taken in regard to damage prevention and anticipation. we also create a list of suppliers so that we can
    promptly take steps when earthquakes or other disasters occur.



      csr management in the supply chain

    to earn the trust of international society while operating business globally, both the group and the entire sup-
    ply chain must responsibly take actions that respond to social demands.
        ibiden disclosed requests to suppliers, based on its basic purchasing policies, in fiscal year 2008 and held
    a briefing session for 100 suppliers the next year, confirming the status of their measures. this enabled us to
    confirm the gap in measures among the suppliers and recognize the necessity of management that has led to
    more specific improvements in the supply chain.
        in fiscal year 2010, ibiden discussed the tasks to be tackled by our suppliers and their management ac-
    cording to the ibiden group charter of behavior and developed a supply chain management plan that has
    led to improvement activities. we divided the items desired for the entire supply chain by our customers, in-
    dustries and internal society into dimensions such as labor, human rights, ethics, health and safety, and envi-
    ronment, and considered guidelines for implementation. in fiscal year 2011, we will summarize these guide-
    lines and publish the ibiden group supplier csr guidelines, and implement supplier surveys based on the
    guidelines as well as the visit to their facilities.




                                                                corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 11




53889312309.indd   11                                                                                                    2011/11/16   15:38:50

      compliance

    basic policy
    by achieving thoroughgoing commitment to“compliance with domestic and international laws, our articles of
    incorporation, internal regulations and corporate ethics”and through open and fair corporate activities, we
    aim to be a company that international society relies on.
        the ibiden group adopted the ibiden standards for employee behavior in december 1998 and the com-
    pliance promotion regulations in august 2003, to facilitate its compliance activities. we continue to increase
    awareness of compliance, adopting a management approach that seeks to earn the trust and respect of all
    stakeholders.

    standards for employee behavior
    the group has long since stepped up its commitment to compliance, following the introduction of the ibiden
    standards for employee behavior - employees’code of conduct. as our overseas operations rapidly expand
    with the construction of plants in the philippines, china, france, and hungary, we must now ensure compli-
    ance with international rules as well as with laws and regulations prevailing in the countries where we do
    business. recognizing this, the group undertook a full review of its compliance program to improve the frame-
    work and revised the ibiden standards for employee behavior in fiscal year 2003.
       at the group, all officers and employees are determined to respect the standards for employee behavior
    and create a group of companies that are good corporate citizens in the eyes of the international community.

    structure for promoting compliance program
    in august 2003, the compliance company-wide promotional committee headed by the president was formed
    in an effort to bolster compliance-related awareness across the group. the committee carries out group-wide,
    pro-compliance activities and reviews such undertakings. compliance-related policies and plans decided by
    the committee are communicated to each plant, which in turn rolls out individual actions in accordance with
    them. all group companies both in japan and abroad have set up their own compliance organizations man-
    dated to formulate and conduct individual actions.




                                                                         board of directors


      board of corporate auditor                                                                president & ceo




       compliance company-wide promotional committee chaired by president & ceo                             compliance committee

                ① company-wide promotion                                                         ① implementing and planning a countermeasure
     function




                                                                                     function




                ② overall control                                                                ② deliberation on non-compliance case
                ③ reporting and reviewing                                                        ③ consultation with the reward and disciplinary committee
                                                                                                 ④ consultation with the board of director


           compliance promotional committee at each plant
                     chaired by plant manager                                                     executive oﬃcer in charge of compliance
                ① promotion at a plant level
     function




                ② ediﬁcation and education at a plant
                ③ addressing the improvement in non-compliance case                                           compliance counter



                                                                           all employees




                                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 12




53889312309.indd   12                                                                                                                                2011/11/16   15:38:50

      bolstering compliance activities

    compliance education
    the company runs a broad array of education programs including level-specific and workplace-specific train-
    ing designed to enhance employee awareness of the importance of compliance. these programs include
    group discussions on causes of violations of the employees’code of conduct and actions taken in response
    to the violations. they educate every single trainee in consciously deciding on the right action in a given situa-
    tion.
       we continually provide our own csr portal site on the intranet and examples of compliance practices in
    our internal magazine and on the intranet as another way to improve staff awareness.

    whistleblowing system
    after learning of any suspected compliance violation in the group, employees are generally required to report
    it, to consult, and to take action using the chain of command between the superior and the subordinate. we
    have, however, established a compliance consultation service for quickly solving any problem that cannot be
    reported through the usual channels. the service is available not only to employees of ibiden group compa-
    nies but to all those working for the group. we provide three access channels to facilitate consultation: one
    inside the company, another at a lawyer’s office, and the other at an outside organization.
         in fiscal year 2010, we provided consultations in 54 cases for the entire group in japan. although most of
    the consultations were related to the issues that could lead to issues related to potential harassment case
    and labor management, none of them significantly affected our business activities. moreover, at workplaces
    where problems were observed, seminars and other events are held individually to prevent recurrence. to
    discover and deal with problems as early as possible, we will continue our educational activities to enhance
    our reliability by offering a consultation service that can be safely used by those who seek consultation.
         in addition, we will set up a consultation service for our supplier in fiscal year 2011. we will create an envi-
    ronment where we not only offer consultations internally but also gather valuable feedback on ibiden’         s com-
    pliance from our regular supplier.

    self-check
    to clarify compliance issues at plants, a self-check on morality, security, and respect for human rights is con-
    ducted once a year on a plant-by-plant basis. any problem identified in this process will be addressed through
    remedial activities specific to the plant.
       employees holding managerial posts are required to submit themselves to annual self-testing to measure
    their understanding of the ibiden standards for employee behavior and their state of compliance with the
    standards, for identification of topics that are not fully understood. case studies illustrating compliance-related
    issues that many test-takers failed to answer correctly are published to increase their understanding.

    revision to the standards for employee behavior
    the ibiden standards for employee behavior are continually evolving in light of the globalization of our ex-
    panding business operations. taking into consideration the expectations of our stakeholders, we add and re-
    vise provisions on worker rights with which we must comply as internal standards. we have also established
    the standards for employee behavior based on such international standards at our main production plants
    overseas, and we are making efforts to provide thorough education on human rights and ethics according to
    these standards.
       upon the revision of the ibiden group charter of behavior, in fiscal year 2011, ibiden will reorganize the
    code of conduct so that employees who must comply with it can understand it more easily, and we will con-
    tinue our efforts to promote their compliance.




                                                                   corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 13




53889312309.indd   13                                                                                                       2011/11/16   15:38:50

    human resource management

    in line with the values on“respect for humanity”included in the ibiden way, we are committed to respect-
    ing the creativity and personality of each and every employee and to value a corporate culture that allows its
    diverse human resources to fully display their knowledge and capabilities.



      respect for human rights

    in its standards for employee behavior, ibiden clearly defines its
    basic policy to support and respect the protection of human
    rights as well as to avoid involvement in any violation of human
    rights. furthermore, officers and employees respect the basic
    principles and rights of labor and take actions that follow com-
    mon sense and rules of society while complying with the em-
    ployment-related laws of each country such as the labor stan-
    dards law and labor regulations.
        ibiden also offers education on fair employment and human
    rights to employees in charge of human resources and labor,              ibiden standards for employee behavior
    and distributes the standards for employee behavior and exam-
    ple booklets, a collection of violation examples, to all employees at the time of hiring. we educate our em-
    ployees regarding the standards for employee behavior, including human rights, in our new employee training
    or education programs offered at the time of hiring.
        for the group to make advances in human rights initiatives, the cooperation of the entities comprising the
    entire supply chain beyond the group is indispensable. in our letter addressed to suppliers, we specifically re-
    quest that labor-related human rights be observed, including bans on child labor and forced labor. in addition,
    we confirm the state of compliance by suppliers by sending out periodic questionnaires.
        in the supplier csr guidelines, in fiscal year 2011, we will summarize specific items to be tackled by our
    suppliers regarding labor and human rights as well as their management. we will then implement surveys and
    visit their facilities.



      employment and development of human resources

    development of global human resources
    the group has actively expanded its overseas business, and is continuing
    to accelerate the globalization of its business activities. for fiscal year
    2010, more than 75% of our sales were made outside of japan. we need
    to recruit and develop human resources capable of managing local opera-
    tions from a global standpoint by interacting with different cultures.
        we provide cross-cultural programs for employees who are visiting or
    are assigned to overseas locations and we make company-wide efforts to
    upgrade their practical language skills. we also focus on nurturing the                   language training
    core staff of our overseas entities by inviting them to participate in training
    programs in japan.
        in addition to the above, we introduce various programs and training to help each staff member display his
    or her creativity and individual personality. it is essential that we promote self-development by fostering a cul-
    ture of self-learning, measure and give feedbacks on the effects of education, offer timely and appropriate ed-
    ucation to all employees, and nurture human resources capable of implementing company-wide education led
    by each division. to achieve these goals, we have introduced an e-learning system with our original contents
    in an effort to build a more effective hr development system.




                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 14




53889312309.indd   14                                                                                                     2011/11/16   15:38:55

    development of human resources through ipm* activities
    under the principle of the company-wide human resource development combined with ibi-techno 4, ibiden
    pursues sustainable growth as a company through ipm activities while striving to provide skill development
    training that employees are motivated to take voluntarily.

    creating new technology by fusing and combining our own innovative                    management of business                          management capability

    core technologies is the philosophy of ibi-techno. in the changing                   ● ability to construct a business

                                                                                         ● ability
                                                                                                                                      <underlying capability for all management>
                                                                                                      to become no.1 in               ● capability to plan and operate the business

    market and business environment, we carry out ipm activities that ad-                  customer satisfaction                      ● capability to manage

    vance and integrate the four ibi-techno capabilities: management of                  ● ability to generate ongoing profits        ● operating the management system


    business, management of technology, total productive management,
    and management capability we will create our own unique manage-
                                                                                                                            management
    ment techniques and grow sales and profits as well as personnel                                                          of business
    through ipm activities. our business creation project involves four
    working groups that advance and integrate the four ibi-techno capa-
    bilities which practice ipm activities and build our innovative business                                               management
                                                                                                                            capability
    model while producing positive results. basic activities of this project                            management                              total
                                                                                                            of                               productive
    come from connecting the problem-solving skills and systems obtained                                technology                          management
    from this project with human resource development efforts and con-
    tinuously making improvements as a teamwork activity. through this
                                                                                         management of technology                     total productive management
    teamwork activity, we aim to achieve“management of the company                       ● ability
                                                                                                  to understand market               ●   san-hozen activity
    by every employee”that directly links the self-realization of employees                and customer needs                             (integrating quality maintenance, autonomous

    to the company’  s profits.
                                                                                                                                          maintenance, and planned maintenance)
                                                                                         ● ability
                                                                                                  to achieve the development goals
                                                                                                                                      ● ability to launch design qcd
                                                                                         ● cross-industrial integration ability
                                                                                                                                        cd competitiveness during
                                                                                                                                      ●q
                                                                                         ● use of experts
                                                                                                                                          stable mass production
    *ipm: ibiden profit management
    *ibi-techno 4:	we will strengthen and evolve total productive management, management of technology, management of busi-
                   ness and management capability, which we have been enhancing, through improvement and innovation with all
                   members.



      respecting diverse work styles

    along with the progress in globalization and diversification of values, ibiden strives to realize a working envi-
    ronment and culture that allow a wide variety of employees to demonstrate their unique abilities and find
    their life and work meaningful.

    supporting work life balance
    actively following the japanese government’   s action guidelines designed to encourage the work-life balance,
    ibiden is building and operating mechanisms and programs appropriate to our status as a global enterprise.
       in fiscal year 2010, we revised the rules and regulations and reviewed their use in response to the amend-
    ment to relevant laws with the aim of reaffirming employees’understanding of the company’      s work-related
    rules and regulations. at the same time, we revised the labor management guidebook and organized an in-
    ternal briefing session. to create a working environment that allows employees to work positively and vigor-
    ously, we will review and consider a discretionary labor system and other working arrangements, and further
    encourage employees to take annual paid leave for fiscal year 2011 and after.

    promotion of female advancement
    the labor force in japan is decreasing as the birthrate drops rapidly. in
    these circumstances, we must urgently secure and develop competent hu-
    man resources. it is necessary to provide capable and motivated female
    employees with opportunities to take proactive actions in order to secure
    human resources with an ideal mix of personalities, regardless of gender,
    and help them demonstrate their abilities to the fullest extent.
        since fiscal year 2010, with the goal of reforming our corporate culture
    and working environment and diversifying work systems, we have been
    implementing group-wide activities to promote female employees’efforts,
    providing support to them on the job and at home so that everyone can                educational training for female employees
    continue to work as productively as possible.
        in fiscal year 2009, we started a working group consisting of female employees in order to grasp ibiden’            s cur-
    rent situation and clarify tasks. in fiscal year 2010, we offered educational training to facilitate female employees’
    active roles and created a parenting handbook. we will continue to support the proactive actions of female em-
    ployees through“growing corporate culture,”        “career development and appointments”and“supporting work-
    life balance”  , so that women with abilities and motivation can be active at all stages of their lives.

                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 15




53889312309.indd   15                                                                                                                                                     2011/11/16     15:38:57

    ◆three core activity areas

   【growing corporate culture】
    we hold various events and training sessions to raise awareness throughout the company and communicate
    these activities through our company bulletin.
   【career development and appointments】
    we introduce educational programs to further enhance the ability of ambitious women and develop and in-
    troduce ideal role models for our female employees.

   【supporting work-life balance】
    we implement childcare leave, short-term working hours and other programs to support a work-life balance
    so that both men and women can continue to work while they raise children. we introduce these programs
    by issuing a childrearing handbook.

    employment of persons with disabilities
    there are a healthy number of active employees with disabilities at the company. the number and percent-
    age of employees with disabilities in fiscal year 2010 was 40 ones and 1.94%, respectively (please refer to the
    graph“tends in the number of employees with disabilities”.). we will continue to respect the philosophy of
    normalization and maintain a working environment in which employees with disabilities can fully demonstrate
    their abilities.

    post-retirement reemployment system
    we instituted a post-retirement reemployment system in fiscal 2004 to enable our most experienced employ-
    ees to display their capabilities as part of our valued workforce.




                   （persons）                                               number of employees with disabilities       （%）                                                                      maternity and child-care leave
                                                                                                                                                                           （persons）
                                                                           percentage of employees with disabilities                                                                            nursing care leave
                                                                                                                       2.5
                                                                                                                             (percentage of employees with disabilities)




                                                             60                                                                                                                 25
                   (number of employees with disabilities)




                                                             50     1.97                           1.98      1.94                                                                                                                20
                                                                              1.93       1.89                          2                                                        20                          19
                                                                                                     40        40                                                                                 17
                                                             40                           39                                                                                                                          16
                                                                                35                                     1.5                                                      15
                                                                     31
                                                             30                                                                                                                        11
                                                                                                                       1                                                        10
                                                             20

                                                                                                                       0.5                                                       5
                                                             10
                                                                                                                                                                                            2                    2
                                                                                                                                                                                                     0                   0          0
                                                              0                                                        0                                                         0
                                                                    2006      2007      2008       2009      2010 （fy）                                                                 2006       2007      2008      2009       2010 （fy）

                                                                  trends in the number of employees                                                                               track record of the leave programs
                                                                       with disabilities [ibiden]                                                                                              [ibiden]




                                                                                                                                                                              corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 16




53889312309.indd       16                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2011/11/16   15:38:58

      labor and management cooperation to create a worker-friendly workplace

    through a relationship of mutual trust, both the management and workers of ibiden work together to create
    a workplace that is friendly for all employees. (in fiscal year 2010, all employees excluding managers belonged
    to the labor union.)
       the labor and management gathering and the labor and management committee are held every month
    to deliberate on ways to improve the working environment so that employees can safely work toward the
    goals of their workplace. in fiscal year 2010, negotiations were held between labor and management with a
    focus on cooperation-related themes, such as working-hour management, creation of a worker-friendly work-
    place and improvement in personnel systems.

    working hour management
    in an effort to raise employees’awareness of working-hour management, we have them use the attendance
    system to check their data, which is designed to ensure accurate working hours, and promote the reduction
    of overtime work. we aim to enhance business efficiency by encouraging our employees to understand work-
    ing hours and by reviewing the business process and systems.

    creating a worker-friendly workplace
    we develop an environment, such as one featuring a break room, that encourages communication in the
    workplace. we also promote the active involvement of female employees as well as improvement in physical
    and mental health. we will enhance our activities by considering training programs to support female employ-
    ees’active involvement and integrating example-based mental health education that targets officers and
    workplace leaders in our educational systems for each tier.

    constitution of employees[ibiden]                         number of employee by business segment
                                                              [ibiden group]

                                      fy 2009   fy 2010
                                                                                                  other
     number of employees persons       3174      3226                                    other     8.8%

     managerial positions persons      276       286                               operation
                                                             construction                11.5%
              officers      persons     17        17         operation 3.8%                      total number of
                                                                                                 employees in the   electronics
          average age       years      34.1      34.9         housing materials
                                                                                                  ibiden group      operation
                                                              operation 2.4%
        length of service   years      11.7      11.8                                             13,051人            54.7%
      number of workers
                          persons       54        43
     who left the company
                                                              ceramics operation 18.8%




                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 17




53889312309.indd   17                                                                                                             2011/11/16   15:38:58

      occupational health and safety - basic policy

    we conduct the health and safety activity done with all concerned people under ibiden way, and aim to
    harmonize“health and safety”and“operation”with the fundamental rule to minimize the risk that may affect
                                                         s operations.
    the life and health of person participating to ibiden’



      occupational health and safety policy

    1．	we will identify the sources of risks associated with each process in our corporate activities and take steps
        to prevent labor accidents and illnesses. we will strive to reduce the risks and to maintain and enhance
        the physical and mental health of our employees.
    2．we will provide a good working environment that allows all employees to work vigorously without anxiety.
    3．	we will comply with laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety and with other recog-
        nized requirements.
    4．	we will operate an occupational health and safety management system to ensure that every employee en-
        gages in occupational health and safety activities and to make continued improvements to attain our occu-
        pational health and safety goal.
    5．	we will ensure that every employee is aware of our occupational health and safety policy, using occupa-
        tional health and safety cards and other means to raise their awareness of occupational health and safety
        and encourage proactive behavior.
    6．we make this policy public and we make it available any time when requested.
        we also make this policy available on our website. http://www.ibiden.com/



      organization chart of occupational health and safety management

          (promotion organization)                                                        (action organization)                 (audit organization)

          company-wide environmental
                                                                                             president & ceo
                                                                      top management




          health and safety committee

                                                                                                                                internal audit committee

           company-wide zero accident committee                                             director in charge


          plant health and safety promotion meeting
                                                                                       occupational health and safety oﬃcer

          plant health and safety committee
                                                                                               plant manager
          general health and safety manager
               (plant manager)                                                         occupational health and safety manager

                                                                                             division manager
                safety manager
                health manager                                                                group manager
          hygiene engineering health manager                                                  team manager
            (appointed employee)                         operation chief                        team leader
                                                      (appointed employee)

          occupational health physician               other statutory managers
                                                                                                                                                 name of
                                                      (appointed employee)                      section chief                                …
                                                                                                                                                 meeting


          division zero accident committee                                                 safety circle leader                              … organization


                                                                                                                                                 statutory
          safety promotion circle meeting                                                         employee                                   …
                                                                                                                                                 organization
                                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 18




53889312309.indd   18                                                                                                                                2011/11/16   15:38:58

      measures for safety

    while the occupational accident frequency rate of the company and do-
    mestic group companies is below the national manufacturer average, 33
    work-related accidents including near injury and minor injury still oc-
    curred in fiscal year 2010.
        to take occupational health and safety a step further, we conducted
    an analysis of the past occupational accidents and devised measures to
    control“unsafe actions”that could directly trigger accidents and hazards.
    in fiscal year 2010, we enhanced training programs geared to employees
    with less experience, while in fiscal year 2011 we are paying greater at-
                                                                                        the companywide zero accident committee
    tention to work processes performed manually in our risk assessment and
    formulation of countermeasures. by identifying specific risk-prone areas
    and administering systematic corrections, we strive to eliminate occupational accidents.
        the companywide zero accident committee, whose membership consists of the persons in charge of pro-
    moting occupational safety and health at the seven ibiden plants and 14 group companies in japan, meets
    each month to discuss causes of occupational hazards and occupational safety issues and exchange informa-
    tion on changes in relevant laws and regulations. in addition to conducting its own safety and health cam-
    paigns, it is, beginning from fiscal year 2010, responsible for familiarizing contractors performing work on ibiden
    premises with our safety standards. the construction safety promotion committee meets regularly to specifically
    address actions to be undertaken together with contractors. by working closely with relevant stakeholders,
    ibiden is determined to strengthen group-wide activities for enhanced occupational safety and health.

                        ibiden group (japan)     ibiden                 number of occupational accidents [ibiden and
                        manufacturing industry   all industry
                                                                        domestic group companies]
                                                                                                                     domestic group
                                                                                                ibiden
      2.00                                                                                                             companies
      1.80                                                                 fatalities             0（0）                     0（0）
      1.60
                                                                          accidents
      1.40                                                                requiring               4（2）                     4（6）
      1.20                                                                  leave
      1.00                                                               accidents
      0.80                                                              not requiring             8（8）                     3（3）
                                                                            leave
      0.60
      0.40                                                              minor injuries          12（9）                      2（3）
      0.20                                                              *	the figures in parentheses represent the numbers of occupational
         0                                                                 accidents in fiscal year 2009
                   06        07           08     09             10
                   occupational accident frequency rate*
        *	number of occupational injuries (be equal or more than ac-
         cidents requiring leave) for every million cumulative actual
         working hours



      managing employee health

    health 100 plan
    to create a working environment that allows employees to work positively and vigorously, it is also important
    to help them improve their physical and mental health. since fiscal year 2008, ibiden has been dedicated to
    the improvement of employee health through the 5-year“health100 plan.”
        beginning with fiscal year 2009, health demonstration sessions consist-
    ing of blood pressure checks and measurement of the age of blood ves-
    sels have taken place at workplaces and group companies. in fiscal year
    2010, we implemented employee health support activities, including offer-
    ing a healthy menu at the company’s cafeteria. furthermore, we ensure
    that all employees use the e-health check system, which allows each em-
    ployee to check the degree of his or her mental and physical stress, to
    identify and deal with any mental health issues as rapidly as possible.
        in addition to these measures, we conduct mental health training for each
                                                                                  health check activities at workplace
    tier as part of our efforts to provide mental and physical care to employees.
                                                                          corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 19




53889312309.indd   19                                                                                                                2011/11/16   15:39:00

    environmental management

    keeping environmental preservation in business in mind, we will thoroughly eliminate the loss of resources
    and energy in order to contribute to social development efficiently. we will dedicate ourselves to environmen-
    tal protection by offering technologies and products designed to reduce the environmental burden.

      environmental management - basic policy
    we conduct the environmental load reduction activity with all concerned people under ibiden way, aim“har-
    mony with nature" by reducing the bad effect on global environment generated in our business operation, and
    fulfill the role as enduring company.”

      environmental policy
     	we contribute to protecting the global environmental by minimizing the environmental burden in every
    1．
       process of our company’ s activities. we especially value water and its benefits to the earth.
     	we continuously promote positive and effective use of clean energy by developing and improving eco-
    2．
       technology that saves energy and resources.
     	we comply with environmental rules and regulations of domestic and international countries. we set our
    3．
       own standards and advance our environmental management capabilities.
     	we encourage all employees to share the purpose and goals of environmental protection and devote
    4．
       themselves to environmental protection activities. we accomplish this by utilizing an environmental man-
       agement system.
     	we publicize this environmental policy by distributing a policy carrying card to promote awareness of en-
    5．
       vironmental protection and to inspire each employee to act voluntarily
     	we make this policy public and we make it available any time when requested.
    6．
       we also make this policy available on our website. http://www.ibiden.com/

      organization chart of environmental management
    grounded in values that emphasize harmony with nature, we are working group-wide to promote environ-
    mental management. with the president as the head of the companywide environmental management sys-
    tem, we have established the workplace-based environment committee led by the head of each workplace to
    facilitate environmental management.
       (consultative/promotion organization)                          (action organization)                               (audit/regulation organization)

                                                                                                                                    internal audit
                                                                         president & ceo
                                                  top management




                                                                                                                                      committee
                                                                      director in charge of
                                                                   environmental management
                                                                                                                              pollution control supervisor
         company-wide environmental committee
                                                                                                                                  (plant manager)

                                                                                                                                                                           *appointing manager necessary for plants
                                                                   environmental management representative
         company-wide consultative organization                                                                                pollution control manager
                                                                           plant manager                                      (appointed employee)


                                                                                                                               waste control manager
         plant environment committee                                                                                          (appointed employee)
                                                                   environmental representative
                                                                                                                               waste control facilities engineering
                                                                                                                               manager (appointed employee)
         plant consultative organization                                 division manager
                                                                                                                              special management industrial waste
                                                                                                                              management representative
       *operating with organization of                                                                                        (appointed employee)
        section meeting necessary for                                     group manager
        each plants                                                       team manager                                        other statutory managers
                                                                                                                              (appointed employees)
                                                                            team leader


                                                                               employee                                     waste control operator
                                                                                member
                                                                                                                           pollution causing facilities manager
                                                                                                                          appointed in the presence of the relevant facilities

    other group-wide environmental activities include monthly“training camp”addressing topics such as global
    warming prevention and water treatment. conferences of the persons responsible for advocating environmental
    preservation appointed by the respective business operations and the global environmental conference are also
    held to ensure cross-sharing of information related to environmental conservation by the entire ibiden group.
                                                                                              corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 20




53889312309.indd   20                                                                                                                                                   2011/11/16                                    15:39:00

      management system certification status

    domestic group companies certified with iso 14001 and ohsas 18001
    we are pursuing iso14001 certification with an in-house system as the means to continuously improve the
    environmental footprint caused by the group’s activities, products and services.
       together with ibiden electronics industries co., ltd., ibiden graphite co., ltd., ibitech co., ltd. and
    ibiden engineering co., ltd. (water treatment division), which are directly linked to our business activities, we
    obtained iso14001 certification in january 2000 and ohsas18001 certification in march 2003*. in june 2009,
    ibiden jushi co., ltd. obtained iso14001 certification, and the godo plant acquired iso14001 and ohsas18001
    certifications and a certificate of compliance at the regular audit in january. in fiscal year 2011, we will work
    to build a management system that integrates both iso14001 and ohsas18001 certifications.

    *	ohsas18001: a standard for occupational health and safety management systems. ohsas stands for occupational health and
      safety assessment.


                        acquisition status of the iso14001 and ohsas18001 certifications for domestic group companies
     name of the                                  ibiden engineering
                                  ibiden*                            ibiden greentec ibiden bussan        ibiden industries ibiden jushi
     group company                                (head office)
     iso14001cert.                jan. 2000       oct. 2002         mar. 2004          may. 2005          sep. 2005          jun. 2009
     ohsas18001cert.              mar. 2003                                                planning

    *ibiden domestic premises (ogaki, ogaki central, aoyanagi, gama, ogaki-kita, kinuura, godo) and including some domestic
    group (ibiden electronics industries, ibiden engineering (water treatment section), ibiden graphite, ibitech, ibiden kenso).



    overseas group companies certified with iso 14001 and ohsas 18001
    in our group, not only domestic group companies but also overseas group companies are working to obtain
    iso14001 and ohsas18001 certification.
        in 2007, ibiden electronics beijing co., ltd. renewed its certification through an extended exam process
    with expanded coverage to its second plant in january, followed by ibiden hungary’     s certification in february.
    in the future, we will continue with efforts to obtain the iso14001 certification and to strengthen our environ-
    mental management.

                        acquisition status of the iso14001 and ohsas18001 certifications for overseas group companies
     name of the group company ibiden philippines             ibiden electronics (beijing) ibiden electronics (shanghai) ibiden hungary
     iso14001cert.                    jun. 2003               jul. 2003                  feb. 2005                   feb. 2007
     ohsas18001cert.                  planning                mar. 2007                                        planning




      environment and occupational health and safety-related laws and regulations

    ibiden focuses on compliance with laws and regulations related to the environment and occupational health
    and safety.
       we aimed to achieve zero violations in fiscal year 2010, but received administrative guidance twice from
    the concerned government ministries in japan. we promptly improved the compliance issues pointed out by
    the ministries through the workplace environment committee.
       ibiden has no record of penalties or sanctions related to violations of environmental laws and regulations.




                                                                             corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 21




53889312309.indd   21                                                                                                                     2011/11/16   15:39:00

      coping with climate change issues

    through private power generation activities to supply clean energy as well as energy conservation efforts in
    manufacturing activities, we are working to reduce direct greenhouse gas emissions. to upgrade our private
    power generation systems, we are boosting our hydroelectric power generation capacity, improving thermal
    power generation efficiency, and promoting fuel conversion. with regard to energy conservation efforts in
    manufacturing activities, we are accelerating the improvement of energy conservation practices throughout
    the company by strengthening companywide co2 reduction activities, while all manufacturing divisions man-
    age the basic unit of energy consumption and set specific targets for each division.

    measures to supply clean energy
    the ibiden group can trace its history back to a scheme aimed at building a hydroelectric power plant up-
    stream on the ibigawa river to supply power and attract industry and thereby help revitalize the nearby city
    of ogaki. the group was established under the name ibigawa electric company in 1912, but over time began
    to utilize electricity to evolve into an electrochemical company. we have continued to expand our business
    since then, including areas such as carbides, carbon, building materials, ceramic products and electronic prod-
    ucts, as we have grown and developed hand in hand with local communities.
        ibiden owns three hydroelectric power plants in the upstream section of ibigawa river in gifu prefecture.
    hydraulic power generation uses the potential energy of water to create clean energy without greenhouse
    gas emissions.
        we introduced a co-generation system in 1992 to use clean energy instead of purchased electric power,
    increasing our clean energy supply. while generating power from turbines that operate by fuel combustion,
    this system also uses waste heat to produce steam, which is then used in factories. as a consequence, the
    system excels in energy efficiency.
        in addition, we recently introduced large-scale solar power systems on the rooftop of our head office build-
    ing in november 2005 and in the ogaki central plant in march 2008.
        as a result of our initiatives in clean energy, the co2 emission factor for the electric power consumed is
    nearly half that of the purchased electricity.
        we are consistently trying to increase our use of natural energy such as hydroelectric power and solar
    power and improve the efficiency of a co-generation system with a high level of environmental performance.
    as a consequence, power we generated in-house supplied nearly 60% of the power we consumed in fiscal
    year 2010. we have successfully reduced co2 emissions by approx. 97,000 t- co2 (for fiscal year 2010) from
    the quantity emitted to generate purchased electric power.



                                                                                              private generated electricity with   private generated electricity with
                                                                                              hydroelectric generation system      co-generation system
                                                                            （1000mwh）         purchased electricity                private generated electricity with
                                                                               600                                                 solar power system



                                                                                                         0.06
                                                                               500                                                                    0.80
                                                                                        0.06              260
                                                                                                                                                       186
                                                                                        226
                                                                                                                           0.81
                                                                               400                                                   0.76
                                                                                                                           146
                                                                                                                                      97

                                                                               300
                                                                                                                                                       119
              hirose power plant            kawakami power plant                                                            94
                                                                                                                                     108

            power output: 8,000kw           power output: 4,100kw              200      116               122


                                                                                                                                     163               172
                                                                                                                           152
                                                                               100      114               109
                                       ibiden systematically renews the
                                       water supply tunnels and the power        0
                                                                                        2006            2007              2008      2009             2010 （fy）
                                       generation systems to continually
                                       upgrade maximal power generation
                                       capacity and enhance efficiency.       trend in electric power use [ibiden domestic premises]




        higashi-yokoyama power plant
           power output: 13,600kw


                                                                     corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 22




53889312309.indd   22                                                                                                                                        2011/11/16   15:39:00

    a shift in fuels
    to encourage the use of clean energy, we are moving away from petroleum-based fuels, in favor of gas-based
    fuels that emit less co2. in fiscal year 2006, we built liquefied natural gas (lng) satellite facilities in partner-
    ship with a local gas company to give ourselves the ability to use lng. this led to 94% in the fossil fuel gasifi-
    cation ratio on annual average and the reduction of co2 emissions by 4.4 kt in fiscal year 2010. (please refer
    to the graph“percentage of shift in fuels”.)
    ※lng: liquefied natural gas

    energy conservation
    while striving to strengthen our manufacturing system, all divisions throughout the company are making ener-
    gy conservation improvements to reduce the co2 emissions unit load. each month, we hold a“training camp”
    where members from all divisions of the company take part in energy conservation activities to combat global
    warming. the manufacturing division and the related functional divisions meet to hold repeated discussions,
    create an activity plan, report on their progress, and disclose relevant cases to share information on improve-
    ments. with our management’s advice, we follow the pdca cycle to improve energy conservation. globally,
    we aim to improve energy conservation by 3% annually based on the co2 emissions unit load per production
    volume for fiscal year 2008. in fiscal year 2010, total co2 emissions rose due to our increased production vol-
    ume and the launch of new plants. nonetheless, we successfully reduced the co2 emissions unit load by 12%
    per production volume from that in fiscal year 2008. (please refer to the graph“co2 emission andco2 emis-
    sion unit load rate”.)

    details of energy conservation improvements in fiscal 2010
                          three-pillar initiatives                                                                             details
                                                                               improves the air-conditioning system by introducing turbo refrigerating
     １．energy conservation conscious design of new facilities
                                                                               machines and efficient chillers

                                                                               builds a framework for horizontal deployment of improvements by creat-
     ２．horizontal deployment of energy conservation improvements
                                                                               ing a score sheet for all divisions

                                                                               reviews the energy control standards of domestic utilities and restores
     ３．enhancing energy control standards
                                                                               the deteriorated portions
     co2 reduction through energy conservation activities 35,500t-co2




                                                                                                                        co₂ emissions
                                                                                                                        - breakdown to ibiden domestic plant
                                                                                                                        co₂ emission unit load rate* plan
                                                                                                                        co₂ emission unit load rate* performance
                                       petroleum-based fuel   gas-based fuel
                        （rate）                                                               （ｋt-co₂）                100                                           （rate）
                                                                                                                                      97
                        100％                                                                                   800                                     94          100
                                                                                                                     100
                         90％                                                                                   700                    93
                                                                                                                                                       88
                         80％                                                                                                                                       80
                                                                                                               600                                    564
                         70％
                                                                                             (co₂ emissions)




                                    77%                                                                        500   454                                           60
                                                                                                                                                                        (unit load)




                         60％                       83％                                                                               448
                                                                94％
                         50％                                                                                   400

                         40％                                                                                   300                                                 40

                         30％                                                                                                                           196
                                                                                                               200    177
                                                                                                                                      156
                         20％                                                                                                                                       20
                                                                                                               100
                         10％
                           0％                                                                                    0                                                 0
                                    2008           2009        2010 （fy）                                             2008           2009             2010 （fy）

                                  percentage of shift in fuels                               co2 emission and co2 emission unit load rate
                                 [ibiden domestic premises]                                   (per production volume) [ ibiden group ]

                                                                                                        *	the above rate is calculated at the rate of
                                                                                                         100 percent of the result of fiscal year 2008.




                                                                                             corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 23




53889312309.indd   23                                                                                                                                                                 2011/11/16   15:39:01

      resource circulation

    resource circulating activities
                                                                                                           s scarce
    ibiden believes that it is an important responsibility of businesses to make effective use of the world’
    resources and to take part in a global effort to conserve resources. we promote the so-called 3r activity,
    which consists of initiatives to reduce, reuse and recycle the resources we consume. in doing so, we aim to
    improve the resources efficiency. since 2004, ibiden has been maintaining a zero-emission* status in terms of
    solid waste.
        the ibiden group sets an index to control solid waste per production volume and has been taking action
    to implement such control. based on the production volume unit load for fiscal year 2008, we aim to improve
    it by 1% annually. the production volume for fiscal year 2010 increased from the previous year, but nonethe-
    less, we successfully reduced solid waste per production volume by 5% compared from that in fiscal year
    2008. (please refer to the graph“amount of solid waste and solid waste unit load rate”.)

    *ibiden defines zero emission as a state in which no solid waste emitted from the production process is dumped in landfills.


    effective utilization and reduction of water resources (water conservation efforts)
    a large amount of water resources is used in the manufacturing process of electronic products, particularly for
    cleansing. even though there is abundant underground water in ogaki city in gifu prefecture, where our do-
    mestic manufacturing bases are concentrated, water shortages are a serious problem in the world today.
    based on the principle of so-called 3r activity—initiatives to reduce, reuse, and recycle resources—the group
    carries out business activities by integrating environmental technologies into manufacturing technologies,
    which has reduced the amount of industrial water use. to ensure the optimum control of wastewater and ef-
    fluent and the facilitation of 3r activity for water resources, since fiscal year 2008 all concerned divisions have
    been meeting every month for a full day of discussion to confirm and report on the progress.
        the ibiden group sets a benchmark for managing the water withdrawal per production volume. our tar-
    get is a 3% improvement per year, with the basic unit of the production volume (water withdrawal rate) in
    2008 as the benchmark. in fiscal year 2010, although we experienced some losses due to facility expansion
    or startup in preparation for mass production, the water withdrawal rate for fiscal year 2010 achieved a 23%
    decrease compared to fiscal year 2008. we will continue our commitment to reducing the water withdrawal
    rate at all plants by means of water conservation and recycling activities. (please refer to the graph“water
    withdrawal and water withdrawal unit load rate”.)




                                                            amount of solid waste                                                                           water withdrawal
                                                            solid waste unit load rate* plan                                                                water withdrawal unit load rate* plan
                                                            solid waste unit load rate* performance                                                         water withdrawal unit load rate* performance

                                                  （t）    100             100                          （rate）                                  （1000㎥）    100                                        （rate）
                                                                                           98                                                                            97
                                             50,000                                                   100                                     20,000                                      94         100
                                                         100              99                                                                             100
                                                                                           95
                                                                                                                                                                         91
                                             40,000                                      38,000       80                                                                                  77         80
                                                                                                                                              15,000
                   (amount of solid waste)




                                                                                                                                                                                        13,000
                                                                                                                         (water withdrawal)




                                                                       30,000                                                                           12,000
                                             30,000     28,000                                        60                                                                                             60
                                                                                                           (unit load)




                                                                                                                                                                                                           (unit load)




                                                                                                                                                                       11,000

                                                                                                                                              10,000
                                             20,000                                                   40                                                                                             40

                                                                                                                                               5,000
                                             10,000                                                   20                                                                                             20


                                                   0                                                  0                                            0                                                 0
                                                        2008            2009              2010 （fy）                                                     2008            2009             2010 （fy）

                          amount of solid waste and solid waste unit load rate                                                                     water withdrawal and water with-
                                            [ibiden group]                                                                                        drawal unit load rate [ibiden group]

                         *	the above rate is calculated at the rate of 100 percent                                                            *	the above rate is calculated at the rate of 100 percent
                           of the result of fiscal year 2008                                                                                    of the result of fiscal year 2008




                                                                                                                                              corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 24




53889312309.indd                             24                                                                                                                                                                          2011/11/16   15:39:01

      appropriate chemical control

    responding to the regulations regarding chemical substances in products and manufacturing processes
    ibiden uses various chemical substances in the plating process. since chemical substances may cause pollu-
    tion and human health hazards, we practice rigorous control to prevent chemicals from causing harm. we are
    reducing the use of or even eliminating certain chemicals. we operate the chemical control committee as an
    internal organization, establishing a system to swiftly identify and respond to community demands related to
    chemical substances as shown in the reach system in europe. we have also started to operate the systems
    for chemical control at overseas manufacturing bases.



    released and transferred amounts of prtr*-listed chemical substances
    with respect to domestic laws, to respond to the amendment of the prtr law
    and the law concerning the examination and regulation of manufacture, etc.,
    of chemical substances, we will enhance in-house chemical control systems to
    build a management structure that prevents any omissions and errors. regard-
    ing the revised prtr law, we are implementing measures to accurately under-
    stand the released and transferred amounts of chemical substances including
    those that were newly added during the year, and submitting reports.


                                                                                                                                                           ibiden group green procurement guidelines
    released and transferred amounts of prtr*1-listed chemical substances
    with respect to domestic laws, to respond to the amendment of the prtr law and the law concerning the
    examination and regulation of manufacture, etc., of chemical substances, we will enhance in-house chemical
    control systems to build a management structure that prevents any omissions and errors. regarding the revised
    prtr law, we are implementing measures to accurately understand the released and transferred amounts of
    chemical substances including those that were newly added during the year, and submitting reports.

    ●released and transferred amounts of prtr-listed chemical substances in fy 2010
     ■ 16 chemical substances subject to mandatory reporting to gifu and aichi prefecture
     ■ specified class i designated chemical substance: 2     ■ class i designated chemical substance: 14
     ■ total amounts released or transferred: approx. 375 t/ year
                                                                         quantity of  amount discharged (to air, public waterway, soil, or in-house landfill)             amount transferred             total amount
      id                                                                  regulated   discharged discharged to public discharged to soil        buried in landfill     transferred transffered off-side discharged and
                         regulated substance
      no.                                                               substance use    to air       waterway or river on facility grounds off-site facility grounds to sewerage as waste material       transferred
                                                                         （kg/year）     (kg/year)          (kg/year)          (kg/year)              (kg/year)           (kg/year)      (kg/year)           (kg/year)
       20                   2-aminoethanol                                 177,670              1,740                 0                0               0          11,300              74,500              87,540
       31          antimony and its compounds                                  1,386                  0               0                0               0                   0                   4                  4
       59                   ethylenediamine                                    1,069               0.3                0                0               0                   0                   0                0.3
       76                    ε-caprolactam                                     6,494                  0               0                0               0                   0                 32                 32
      232           n,n-dimethylformaldehyde                                   1,340                  0               0                0               0                   0                   0                  0
      237                     hydrargentum                                     4,409                  0               0                0               0                   0            4,400               4,400
      272    copper salts (water-soluble, except complex salts)            909,598                    0            540                 0               0               133              9,280               9,953
      308                           nickel                                     1,480                  0               0                0               0                   0                   0                  0
      309                 nickel compounds                                   19,746                   0               0                0               0                   0            4,530               4,530
      349                          phenol                                  574,517                    2               0                0               0                   0                   0                  2
      368                   tert-butylphenol                                   3,178                  0               0                0               0                   0                   0                  0
      395    potassium persulfate water-soluble salt                       889,796                570                 0                0               0                   0        201,000             201,570
      405            boron and its compounds                                   5,842                  0             92                 0               0                   0            5,700               5,792
      408    2-(2-[4-(1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutyl)phenoxy]ethoxy)ethanol          3,469                22                0                0               0                   0                   0                22
      411                    formaldehyde                                  571,345              2,460                 0                0               0                   0          38,002              40,462
      412          manganese and its compounds                               21,950                   0               0                0               0                   0          21,600              21,600
   【surveyed】ibiden and ibiden group companies covered by ibiden’s environmental-management system
   【survey period】april 2010 through march 2011


    *1 prtr：pollutant release and transfer register
    *2 the data includes contained amounts in products, biodegraded treatment amount, and such.

                                                                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 25




53889312309.indd    25                                                                                                                                                                                        2011/11/16   15:39:02

      understanding the influence on biodiversity

    initiated from the power of water, the group’  s business activities are blessed with the benefit of biodiversity
    such as maintaining a stable water supply. and our activities also have some impact in the area of biodiversity.
    just as we need to cope with the issues of global warming due to climate change, biodiversity conservation is
    one of the most important tasks to tackle.
        aiming to contribute to constant social advancement, in line with the values stressing“harmony with na-
    ture,”ibiden will act responsibly as a global enterprise by working together with society.


    activities to create a society in harmony with nature for biodiversity protection and sustainable resource use
    focusing on the upstream areas along the ibigawa river, which are the roots of the ibiden group, we will
    contribute to protecting biodiversity and sustainable use of resources in the local community. we will achieve
    this by carrying out forest preservation activities to support the water sources and promoting social contribu-
    tion activities in collaboration with the local community.

    forest preservation activity areas
    in august 2008, ibiden signed an agreement on lively forest creation with the gifu prefectural government,
    the ibigawa town government and the ibi shizen kankyo rangers (a nonprofit organization). according to this
    agreement, we will plant trees, thin the forests and conduct improvement cutting in ibiden’         s forest higashi
    yokoyama forest in the higashi yokoyama district and ibiden’s forest fujihashi forest in the tsurumi district
    over the next 10 years, in an effort to support sustainable reforestation activities in the future.
    → for details on forest preservation activities, please refer to "social contribution" on page 35.
    ＜target areas of forest preservation activities＞




                                               ▶   toyama



                         ▶   ishikawa

                                                            ▶   nagano


                                                                            ibi prefectural
                   ▶   fukui                                                                            tokuyama
                                                                                                          dam               site preparation for sil-
                                                                             natural park                                   vicultural project
                                    ▶   gifu
                                                                                                                            ibiden’  s forest fuji-
                                                                                                ibigawa river               hashi
                                                                                                                            land area：37ha
             ▶   shiga                         ▶   aichi                                                           417


                       mie
                                                                         kawakami
                   ▶




                                                                         power plant        hirose
                                                                                          power plant



                                                                                                  303
                                                                                 sakauchi river
                                                                                             higashi yokoyama
                                                                                             power plant



                                                                                                                           303
                                                                              the hydroelectric power is
                                                                              supplied to each of ibiden’
                                                                                                        s plants
                                                                                                                          site preparation for
                                                                                                                          planting project
                                                                                                                          ibiden’ s forest higashi-
         in collaboration with the local
                                                                                                                          yokoyama
         community, we held the nature
                                                                                                                          land area：4.31ha
         study class in autumn
                                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 26




53889312309.indd       26                                                                                                                       2011/11/16   15:39:02

      environmental contribution through products

    as environmental regulations are tightened, the market             forecast for the european vehicles market
    for automotive exhaust system components is likely to                                         diesel vehicles                   gasoline vehicles

    expand in the future. ibiden is working to reduce the           （million units）               ratio of diesel vehicles          ratio of vehicles with dpf

                                                                     50                                                      100％                100％
    environmental burden by launching next-generation,
    high-performance products such as diesel particulate                                           75％
    filters (dpfs), installed into fuel-efficient, clean diesel      40
                                                                               58％
    vehicles.
                                                                     30        49％                 49％                       46％                  47％



                                                                     20


                                                                     10


                                                                       0
                                                                              2009                2010                   2011                    2012 （year）

                                                                     note: forecasts by ibiden.

                          sic-dpf（diesel particulate filter)




    in 2000, ibiden succeeded in achieving the practical application of dpfs made of silicon carbide (sic), which
    boasts high thermal conductivity, high heat resistance, thermal shock resistance, and high mechanical strength
    as its baseline performance. following that, with a view to further reducing the environmental burden, we de-
    veloped new technology such as the oct-square, which helped achieve long life and the downsizing of the fil-
    ters.
       in order to offer designs which take product performance and environmental consciousness into account
    from the product development stage, we will continue to provide tools for calculating the environmental im-
    pact of products to be developed and manufacturing processes, tools for controlling chemical substances,
    and tools for evaluating the value of product functions.




                             conventional cell structure                                  oct-square (os) cell structure

                        the inlet cell of the dpf is expanded in an octagonal form to increase the ash reten-
                        tion capacity. this technology downsizes the dpf volume to reduce material and ener-
                        gy consumption.




                                                                     corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 27




53889312309.indd   27                                                                                                                                    2011/11/16   15:39:03

      environmental accounting

    1．environmental accounting in support of environmental management
    in promoting environmental management, ibiden performs calculations and analyses to develop a quantita-
    tive understanding of investment and costs, seeking to understand the management resources spent on re-
    ducing the environmental burden and the results. we use environmental accounting to reflect the effects of
    investment and cost in the decision-making process at the management level.


    2．basis for calculation
     accounting
                april 2010 to march 2011
     period
                    ibiden co., ltd. and major domestic manufacturing group companies
     accounting
                    (ibiden engineering co., ltd., ibiden graphite co., ltd., ibiden kenso co., ltd., ibiden jushi
     scope (note 1)
                    co., ltd., ibiden electronics industries co., ltd., ibiden bussan co., ltd.)
     c a l c u l a t i o n calculations conform to the environmental accounting guidelines (2005 edition) published
     method                by the ministry of the environment.
    note 1:	calculations have been based on the consolidated financial results of major domestic manufacturing
             group companies since fiscal year 2009.


    3．main environmental protection costs
    in fiscal year 2010, investment decreased 44% compared to fiscal year 2009. the decrease in investment was
    primarily because large-scale environmental investments were made in“(2) global environmental protection
    costs”(e.g., hydroelectric power plant maintenance, boiler fuel conversion to city gas) in fiscal year 2009,
    whereas investments in fiscal year 2010 focused on“(1) pollution prevention costs”for environmental burden
    reduction and other improvements.
        in fiscal year 2010, costs increased 2% compared to fiscal year 2009. this reflected an increase in“(3) re-
    source recycling costs”for sustainable resources as well as in“(6) research and development costs”by envi-
    ronment-related development themes including dpfs.

                                                                                                                  (unit: million yen/year)

                                                                         investments (note 2)                      costs (note 2)
                         category
                                                                     fy 2009 fy 2010 year to year fy 2009 fy 2010 year to year

                                  (1)	pollution prevention costs        410         786       +92%          3,172        3,212         +1％
                                  (2)	global environmental
         business area cost                                            1,426            4    －100%           1,661        1,395       －16%
                                      conservation costs
                                  (3)	resources circulation costs        68         292      +332%            905          961         +6%

      (4) upstream and downstream costs                                     0           0       ―                 8            8       －1%

      (5) administration costs                                              3           8     +219%            226          227            0%

      (6) research & development costs                                   391         201       －49%          3,358        3,724       +11%

      (7) social activity costs                                             0           0       ―               33           29       －13%

      (8) environmental remediation costs                                   0           0       ―                 0            0       ―

                              total                                    2,297       1,291       －44%          9,363        9,555         +2%

    note 2:	in cases when the total amount of investments and costs cannot be deemed to constitute environ-
             mental protection costs, we have calculated the difference or the proportional share.




                                                                                corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 28




53889312309.indd   28                                                                                                                    2011/11/16   15:39:03

    4．distribution ratio of total cost of environmental protection
                                             other                                           ・research and development costs include the cost of re-
                        resource
                        recycling             3%                                               searching and developing next-generation dpfs and other
                          10%                                                                  environmentally responsible products, aimed at control-
                                                                                               ling the environmental burden.
        global                                                                  pollution    ・global environmental protection costs include mainte-
    environmental                                                              prevention      nance and administration costs of hydroelectric power
     protection                                                                   38%
         14%                                                                                   generation and cogeneration facilities.
                                                                                             ・the environment is the main objective of costs associated
                                                                                               with hydroelectric power generation and research and de-
                                                                                               velopment of environmentally responsible products. the
                                                                                               total cost is aggregated, as there is no appropriate pro
            research and
            development                                                                        rata basis.
                35%




    5．economic results and real effects of environmental protection measures (note 3)
                                                                                                                                                 (unit: million yen/year)

                                                                                                                       amount
                                           description of effects                                                                                     year to year
                                                                                                             fy 2009              fy 2010
                                     1.	e nergy conservation effect and electric
                                        power marginal profit effect
                                     results of effective hydroelectric power
                                     generation, improved power generation
                                                                                                               1,740                1,879                  +8％
                                     efficiency, reduced idle operation loss,
                                     improved productivity, improved air
                                     conditioning, improved steam energy, and
                                     thorough maintenance and control
                                     2.	economic effects of resource recycling
         real effects                (1) reduced waste
                                     ・e ffects of reduced liquid waste treatment
                                       costs, improved yield rates, and reduced
                                       waste as a result of loss improvement
                                     (2) recycling of waste                                                    1,375                1,745                 +27％
                                     ・effects of effective use of waste
                                     ・e ffects of disposal by sale of substrates
                                       containing precious metals, liquid waste
                                       containing precious metals, sludge containing
                                       copper and waste plastics
                                                          total                                                3,115                3,624                 +16％

    note 3:	these figures are not including estimated measure (assumed effect).




    6．fluctuations in environmental protection costs and economic results (note 4)
    （million yen）                                                                                           energy conservation effects and electric power
    12,000                                                                                                  marginal profit effects for fiscal year 2010 in-
                   ■environmental protection cost
                                                                                                            creased by 8% compared to fiscal year 2009.
                   ■economic result of environmental protection measures
    10,000                                                                     9,363        9,555           the increase was primarily attributable to the
                                                             8,676                                          increased productivity brought by the efforts
      8,000                                                                                                 to improve the operating ratio and facilities.
                                      6,854                                                                     economic effects of resource recycling for
      6,000        5,610                                                                                    fiscal year 2010 increased by 27% compared
                                                                                                            to fiscal year 2009.
      4,000                                                                                     3,624           the main causes of the increase were the
                                                                       2,824       3,115
                                                2,519                                                       reduced waste treatment costs by streamlin-
                          2,109
      2,000
                                                                                                            ing the liquid waste and drainage treatments,
                                                                                                            in addition to the economic results brought by
                                                                                                            recycling waste.
             0
                    2006                   2007                   2008           2009       2010(fy)
    note 4: the figures are presented on a non-consolidated basis prior to fiscal year 2008

                                                                                                        corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 29




53889312309.indd   29                                                                                                                                             2011/11/16   15:39:03

                      s material balance (input and output)
      the ibiden group’

    the ibiden group procures a variety of raw materials and is engaged in manufacturing activities by utilizing a
    considerable amount of natural resources on the earth such as water and energy. to provide earth-friendly
    products to our customers, we seek to grasp the environmental burden caused by our business activities on a
    global basis. we will continue to provide high-value-added products while setting medium- and long-term tar-
    gets and reducing our environmental burden.



                                                energy use                                                             raw materials
                             category                         ibiden    *1   group *2                    cartegory                    ibiden           group

                   electricity     purcahsed electricity       186,170       570,843                                  metals (t)      2,759            4,644
                   (mwh)*3         renewable energy            173,151       173,151                     plastics and resins (t)      5,858            11,264

                            natural gas (1000m )               52,812         70,821                                    glass (t)        5              146
                                                        3




                                                lpg (t)         1,373         1,397                       ceramic material,etc. (t)   17,092           31,525

                                  kerosene (1000ℓ)              1,528         1,528                                    wood (t)         84               97

                                  diesel oil (1000ℓ)             126          24,116                                    paper (t)     3,383            4,136

                                  heavy oil (1000ℓ)               0           3,590                        agricultural product (t)      0             3,315

                                                                                                                  chemicals (t)       67,725          146,478
                                           water resources
                                                                                          *1	ibiden: ibiden domestic premises
                             category                          ibiden         group       *2	group: ibiden domestic premises and, five japanese group companies
                          groundwater（1000m ）
                                                        3
                                                                7,730         9,295          (jushi, bussan and ibiden engineering (h.o.), ibiden greentec, ibiden
                                                                                             industries) and six overseas group companies (ipi, ieb, ihu, idfs, and
                          water works（1000m ）                    16           3,452
                                                        3
                                                                                             micro mech, ibiden malaysia, ibiden electronics (shanghai))
                                                                                          *3	electric power: privately generated electricity by the group's thermal
                                                                                             power other than above (220,728 mkwh)




                                                                                        input


                                                                             ibiden group

                                                                                       output


                                               atmosphere                                                                    waste
                             category                         ibiden    *1   group *2                     category                    ibiden           group

                                          scope 1 *3             119           283                        material recycling (t)      15,124           29,167
                         co2
                                          scope 2 *4             78            337                        thermal recycling (t)       3,059            3,394
                        (1000ｔ)
                                        logistics      *5        45            45                                      reuse (t)        671            2,469

                         sox emissions (1000t)                    0            0.02                         incineration ash (t)        218            1,238

                         nox emissions (1000t)                   0.1           0.3               landfilled industrial waste (t)         0             1,776

                                                                                                    total generated waste (t)         19,072           38,044
                                             water system
                                    category                   ibiden         group       *1	ibiden: ibiden domestic premises
                                                                                          *2	group: ibiden domestic premises and, five japanese group companies
                        discharge to public sewer (1000m )       745          3,797
                                                        3
                                                                                             (jushi, bussan and ibiden engineering (h.o.), ibiden greentec, ibiden
                                                                                             industries) and six overseas group companies (ipi, ieb, ihu, idfs, and mi-
           water discharge to river (1000m )                    3,922         5,381
                                                        3

                                                                                             cro mech, ibiden malaysia, ibiden electronics (shanghai) )
           system
                      cod contamination (t)                      12            15         *3	scope 1: direct co2 emissions (emissions from fuel used in business
                                                                                             establishments)
                              nitrogen contamination (t)         10            10         *4	scope 2: indirect co2 emissions (emissions from purchased electricity
                              phosphorous contamination (t)      0.4           0.4           generation)
                                                                                          *5	logistics: between japanese plants or where the export range (port-
                          industrial wastewater (1000t)          17            25            to-port or airport-to-airport) has been identified


                                                                                                corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 30




53889312309.indd   30                                                                                                                                              2011/11/16   15:39:04

      environmental data for individual plants and group companies – compliance management
    ogaki plant                                                                                                        aoyanagi plant
    <no.1 wastewater measurement>                                                                                      <no.5 wastewater measurement>
              item                      unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum               item                  unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     ph                                           5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                        7.1     7.6     ph                                          5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                          7     8.1
     bod                               mg/l           160                15              5             1.2     8.7     bod                               mg/l          160                15              5             3.6     11
     ss                                mg/l           200               200           200              1.3     5.0                                                                   regulation of regulation of
                                                                                                                       cod                               mg/l          160                                               2.4    7.8
     n-h mineral oils                  mg/l              5                5              5             <1      <1                                                                    total emission total emission
     cyanide                           mg/l              1              0.1           0.03            <0.01 <0.01      ss                                mg/l          200                30             30             7.2     22
    <no.2 wastewater measurement>                                                                                      copper                            mg/l             3                2              1             0.3    0.76
                                                                                                                       lead                              mg/l           0.1              0.1           0.03            <0.01 <0.01
                 item                   unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                                                                                                       total chromium                    mg/l             2                1              1            <0.02 <0.02
     ph                                           5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                        7.2      8
                                                                                                                       hexavalent chromium               mg/l           0.5             0.25           0.25            <0.02 <0.02
     bod                               mg/l           160                15              5             2.2     4.5
                                                                                                                       fluorine                          mg/l             8                8              5            <0.1    <0.1
                                                                    regulation of regulation of
     cod                               mg/l           160                                              3.3     7.1     cyanide                           mg/l             1              0.1            0.1            <0.01 <0.01
                                                                    total emission total emission
                                                                                                                       1･1･1 trichloroethane             mg/l             3                3              3           <0.0005 <0.0005
     ss                                mg/l           200                30             30             3.4     10
                                                                                                                       ni                                mg/l            －                 －              －             0.01   0.02
     copper                            mg/l              3                2              1             0.1     0.5
                                                                                                                       phenol                            mg/l             5              0.4            0.4             0.1     0.1
     lead                              mg/l            0.1              0.1           0.03            <0.01   <0.01
                                                                                                                       n-h mineral oils                  mg/l             5                5              5              <1     <1
     total chromium                    mg/l              2                1              1            <0.02   <0.02
                                                                                                                       dichloromethane                   mg/l           0.2              0.2            0.2           <0.002 <0.002
     hexavalent chromium               mg/l            0.5             0.25           0.25            <0.02   <0.02
                                                                                                                       nitrogen                          mg/l          120                60             60             3.8     17
     fluorine                          mg/l              8                8              5             0.10    0.14
                                                                                                                       phosphorus                        mg/l           16                 8              8             0.2     0.5
     cyanide                           mg/l              1              0.1            0.1            <0.01   <0.01
                                                                                                                       boron and boron compounds         mg/l           10                10             10             0.7     1.3
     n-h mineral oils                  mg/l              5                5              5             <1      <1
                                                                                                                       ammonia and ammonium compounds,
     nitrogen                          mg/l           120                60             60             1.8     4.9                                       mg/l         100          100           100            3            15
                                                                                                                       nitrite and nitrate compounds
     phosphorus                        mg/l            16                 8              8             0.1     0.2
     boron and boron compounds         mg/l            10                10             10             0.1     0.3     <no.6 wastewater measurement>
     ammonia and ammonium compounds,                                                                                               item                  unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                       mg/l          100          100           100           1.4          4.4
     nitrite and nitrate compounds                                                                                     ph                                          5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                        7.7     7.9
    <air measurement>                                                                                                  bod                               mg/l          160                15             10             1.2     9.1
                                                                                                                                                                                     regulation of regulation of
         item       equipment           unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum        cod                               mg/l          160                                             <1.1     9.2
                                                                                                                                                                                     total emission total emission
                     boiler no.7       g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.003   0.003
                                          3

                                                                                                                       ss                                mg/l          200                30             30              1       2
                     boiler no.8       g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.005   0.007
                                          3

                                                                                                                       cyanide                           mg/l             1              0.1            0.1            <0.01 <0.01
                     boiler no.9       g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.003   0.004
                                          3

                                                                                                                       phenol                            mg/l             5              0.4            0.4            <0.1    <0.1
                    boiler no.10       g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.003   0.004
                                          3

                                                                                                                       n-h mineral oils                  mg/l             5                5              5             <1      <1
                    boiler no.11       g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.003   0.003
                                          3

                                                                                                                       nitrogen                          mg/l          120                60             60            <1.4     2.6
                    boiler no.12       g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.003   0.004
                                          3

                                                                                                                       phosphorus                        mg/l           16                 8              8            <0.05   0.05
                    boiler no.13       g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.003   0.003
                                          3


                    boiler no.14       g/m n
                                          3
                                                  0.3             0.27           0.27           0.0025 0.004           <air measurement>
                    boiler no.15       g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.003   0.003             item       equipment         unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                          3


                    boiler no.16       g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.001   0.001                         boiler no.2 g/m n          0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                          3                                                                                                               3


                    boiler no.17       g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.002   0.002             soot       gas turbine no.1 g/m n     0.05             0.05           0.05 <0.001 <0.001
                                          3                                                                                                               3

         soot
                    boiler no.18       g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.002   0.003                        gas turbine no.2 g/m n     0.05             0.05           0.05 <0.001 <0.001
                                          3                                                                                                               3


                    boiler no.19       g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.001   0.001                         boiler no.2      ppm      150               150           150              95     100
                                          3


                    boiler no.20       g/m n      0.3             0.27           0.27            0.003   0.003             nox        gas turbine no.1 ppm        70                70             70             22      25
                                          3


                    boiler no.21       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                                   gas turbine no.2 ppm        70                70             70             18      20
                                          3


                    boiler no.22       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                          3
                                                                                                                       <noise measurement>
                    boiler no.23       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                          3

                                                                                                                                place                    unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                    boiler no.24       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                          3

                                                                                                                       east (morning･evening)            db             65                65             65             51      55
                    boiler no.25       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                          3

                                                                                                                       west (morning･evening)            db             65                65             65             53      55
                    boiler no.26       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                          3

                                                                                                                       south (morning･evening)           db             65                65             65             48      54
                    gas turbine no.1   g/m n     0.05             0.05           0.05 <0.001 <0.001
                                          3

                                                                                                                       north (morning･evening)           db             65                65             65             54      55
                    gas turbine no.2   g/m n     0.05             0.05           0.05 <0.001 <0.001
                                          3

                                                                                                                             east (night)                db             60                60             60             49      51
                     boiler no.7        ppm      260               260           260               97     100
                                                                                                                             west (night)                db             60                60             60             52      54
                     boiler no.8        ppm      260               260           260               93      96
                                                                                                                            south (night)                db             60                60             60             48      54
                     boiler no.9        ppm      260               260           260               96     100
                                                                                                                            north (night)                db             60                60             60             53      54
                    boiler no.10        ppm      260               260           260               89      94
                    boiler no.11        ppm      260               260           260               95     100
                    boiler no.12        ppm      260               260           260               90      93
                    boiler no.13        ppm      260               260           260               88      91
                    boiler no.14        ppm      260               260           260               80      80
                    boiler no.15        ppm      260               260           260              100     100
                    boiler no.16        ppm      260               260           260              105     110
         nox
                    boiler no.17        ppm      260               260           260               90      91
                    boiler no.18        ppm      260               260           260              110     120
                    boiler no.19        ppm      260               260           260               97     100
                    boiler no.20        ppm      150               150           150               95      99
                    boiler no.21        ppm      150               150           150               46      47
                    boiler no.22        ppm      150               150           150               51      52
                    boiler no.23        ppm      150               150           150               44      46
                    boiler no.24        ppm      150               150           150               46      49
                    boiler no.25        ppm      150               150           150               51      52
                    boiler no.26        ppm      150               150           150               46      46
    <noise measurement>
              place                     unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     north (morning･evening)            db             65                65             65             54      56
     east (morning･evening)             db             65                65             65             47      56
     south (morning･evening)            db             65                65             65             47      52
     west (morning･evening)             db             65                65             65             54      63
          north (night)                 db             60                60             60             53      56
           east (night)                 db             60                60             60             45      51
          south (night)                 db             60                60             60             46      48
           west (night)                 db             60                60             60             53      60          corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 31




53889312309.indd      31                                                                                                                                                                                                    2011/11/16   15:39:05

    gama plant                                                                                                             ogaki central plant
    <no.1 wastewater measurement>                                                                                          <wastewater measurement>
                  item                      unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum               item                   unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     ph                                               5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                         7.2    7.6     ph                                           5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                         6.5    7.1
     bod                                   mg/l           160                15              5              1.6    7.2     bod                               mg/l           160                15              5              2.8    4.9
                                                                        regulation of                                                                                                     regulation of regulation of
     cod                                   mg/l           160                               10              1.3    5.9     cod                               mg/l           160                                               2.5    17
                                                                        total emission                                                                                                    total emission total emission
     ss                                    mg/l           200                30             10              1.6     3      ss                                mg/l           200                30             30              3.2    23
     copper                                mg/l              3                2              1             0.22   0.53     copper                            mg/l              3                2              1              0.4   0.98
     lead                                  mg/l            0.1              0.1           0.03            <0.01 <0.01      lead                              mg/l            0.1              0.1           0.03            <0.01 <0.01
     fluorine                              mg/l              8                8              5            <0.1     0.1     total chromium                    mg/l              2                1              1            <0.02 <0.02
     cyanide                               mg/l              1              0.1           0.03            0.01    0.02     hexavalent chromium               mg/l            0.5             0.25           0.25             0.02   0.03
     1･1･1 trichloroethane                 mg/l              3                3              1           <0.0005 <0.0005   cyanide                           mg/l              8                8              5            <0.1    <0.1
     n-h mineral oils                      mg/l              5                5            1.7              <1     <1      fluorine                          mg/l              1              0.1            0.1            <0.01 <0.01
     dichloromethane                       mg/l            0.2              0.2           0.06 <0.002 <0.002               nitrogen                          mg/l              5                5              5              <1     <1
     nitrogen                              mg/l           120                60             20              2.9    4.2     phosphorus                        mg/l           120                60             60             2.3     3.9
     phosphorus                            mg/l            16                 8            2.7             0.06   0.11     n-h mineral oils                  mg/l            16                 8              8            0.05    0.08
     boron and boron compounds             mg/l            10                10             10            <0.1    <0.1     boron and boron compounds         mg/l            10                10             10             0.12   0.23
     ammonia and ammonium compounds,                                                                                       ammonia and ammonium compounds,
                                           mg/l          100          100           100           2.3          2.8                                           mg/l          100          100           100           1.7          3.3
     nitrite and nitrate compounds                                                                                         nitrite and nitrate compounds


    <no.2 wastewater measurement>                                                                                          <air measurement>
                  item                      unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum       item       equipment           unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     ph                                               5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                        7.7     7.9                    b-1-1 boiler       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                                3


     bod                                   mg/l           160                15             10             0.9     4.1                    b-1-2 boiler       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                                3


                                                                                                                                          b-1-3 boiler       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                        regulation of
     cod                                   mg/l           160                               10             1.6     4.5
                                                                        total emission                                                    b-1-4 boiler       g/m n
                                                                                                                                                                3
                                                                                                                                                                        0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
     ss                                    mg/l           200                30             10             1.7      6                     b-1-5 boiler       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                                3

                                                                                                                               soot
     n-h mineral oils                      mg/l              5                5            1.7             <1      <1                     b-1-6 boiler       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                                3


     nitrogen                              mg/l           120                60             20             1.1     1.3                    b-1-7 boiler       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                                3


     phosphorus                            mg/l            16                 8            2.7            <0.05   0.06                    b-1-8 boiler       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                                3


     copper                                mg/l              3                2              1            <0.01 <0.01                     b-1-9 boiler       g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                                3


     cyanide                               mg/l              1              0.1           0.03            <0.01 <0.01                     b-1-10 boiler      g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                                                3


     lead                                  mg/l            0.1              0.1           0.03            <0.01 <0.01                     b-1-1 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              31      33
     dichloromethane                       mg/l            0.2              0.2           0.06 <0.002 <0.002                              b-1-2 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              30      32
     1･1･1 trichloroethane                 mg/l              3                3              1           <0.0005 <0.0005                  b-1-3 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              35      35
     fluorine                              mg/l              8                8              5            <0.1    <0.1                    b-1-4 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              33      33
     boron and boron compounds             mg/l            10                10             10            <0.1    <0.1                    b-1-5 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              31      34
                                                                                                                               nox
     ammonia and ammonium compounds,                                                                                                      b-1-6 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              32      34
                                           mg/l          100          100           100           <1           <1
     nitrite and nitrate compounds                                                                                                        b-1-7 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              34      35
                                                                                                                                          b-1-8 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              33      37
    <air measurement>                                                                                                                     b-1-9 boiler        ppm      150               150           150              31      32
                                                                                                                                          b-1-10 boiler       ppm      150               150           150              30      34
         item           equipment           unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                         boiler no.9 gas   g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001
                                              3


                        boiler no.10 gas   g/m n
                                              3
                                                      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                    <noise measurement>
                        boiler no.11 gas   g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                              place                    unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                              3


                        boiler no.12 gas   g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                    north (morning･evening)            db             50                50             50             44      46
                                              3

         soot
                        boiler no.13 gas   g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                    eastno.1 (morning･evening)         db             50                50             50             45      47
                                              3

    （oxygen equivalent）
                        boiler no.14 gas   g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                    eastno.2 (morning･evening)         db             60                60             60             50      57
                                              3


                        boiler no.15 gas   g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                    south (morning･evening)            db             60                60             60             42      44
                                              3


                        boiler no.16 gas   g/m n      0.1             0.09           0.09 <0.001 <0.001                         north (night)                 db             45                45             45             43      45
                                              3


                        gas turbine        g/m n     0.05             0.05           0.05            0.006   0.01             east no.1 (night)               db             45                45             45             44      45
                                              3


                         boiler no.9 gas    ppm      150               150           150               39     45              east no.2 (night)               db             50                50             50             48      49
                        boiler no.10 gas    ppm      150               150           150               40     47                south (night)                 db             50                50             50             42      45
                        boiler no.11 gas    ppm      150               150           150               43     52
                        boiler no.12 gas    ppm      150               150           150               40     49
         nox
                        boiler no.13 gas    ppm      150               150           150               27     32
    （oxygen equivalent）
                        boiler no.14 gas    ppm      150               150           150               35     42
                        boiler no.15 gas    ppm      150               150           150               34     39
                        boiler no.16 gas    ppm      150               150           150               38     46
                        gas turbine         ppm       70                70             70              37     41


    <noise measurement>
              place                         unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     east (morning･evening)                 db             65                65             65             48      54
     south (morning･evening)                db             65                65             65             51      56
     west (morning･evening)                 db             65                65             65             56      59
           east (night)                     db             60                60             60             46      54
          south (night)                     db             60                60             60             50      54
           west (night)                     db             60                60             60             55      57




                                                                                                                               corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 32




53889312309.indd        32                                                                                                                                                                                                       2011/11/16   15:39:06

    ogaki-kita plant                                                                                                                 kinuura plant
    <total wastewater measurement>                                                                                                   <wastewater measurement>
                       item                           unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum                    item             unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     ph                                                         5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.3                         7.5    7.9     ph                                        5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.0 ～ 8.4                     6.7     7.2
     bod                                             mg/l           160                30             20              7.8    22      bod                               mg/l      160              160             20              14     41
                                                                                  regulation of regulation of                        cod                               mg/l      160              160             30              14     23
     cod                                             mg/l           160                                               8.2    31
                                                                                  total emission total emission                      ss                                mg/l      200             200              20              20     32
     ss                                              mg/l           200                30             25              2.6    11      copper                            mg/l        3                3            0.2            0.013   0.02
     copper                                          mg/l              3                2              1             0.01   0.05     total chromium                    mg/l        2                2              1            0.02    0.02
     total chromium                                  mg/l              2              0.5            0.5            <0.02 <0.02      fluorine                          mg/l        8                8            3.0            0.13    0.18
     hexavalent chromium                             mg/l            0.5              0.2            0.2            <0.02 <0.02      phenol                            mg/l        1                1            0.2             0.1     0.1
     fluorine                                        mg/l              8                8              8            <0.1    <0.1     n-h mineral oils                  mg/l        2                2              1              1       1
     cyanide                                         mg/l              1              0.1           0.08            <0.01 <0.01      nitrogen                          mg/l      120             120              30             33      41
     1･1･1 trichloroethane                           mg/l              3              0.3            0.1           <0.0005 <0.0005   phosphorus                        mg/l       16               16              3             1.5     2.1
     trichloroethylene                               mg/l           0.03             0.03           0.01 <0.002 <0.002
                                                                                                                                     soluble manganese                 mg/l       10               10              3             1.8     4.2
     phenol                                          mg/l              5              0.4            0.4            <0.1    <0.1
                                                                                                                                     zinc                              mg/l        2                2              1            0.06    0.11
     n-h mineral oils                                mg/l              5                5              4              <1     <1
                                                                                                                                     solubility iron                   mg/l       10               10              3            0.64     1.1
     nitrogen                                        mg/l           120                60             50             11.7    28
                                                                                                                                     coliform bacilli                piece/cm 3000              3000           1000              188    340
                                                                                                                                                                             3

     phosphorus                                      mg/l            16                 8              7             1.2     3.6
                                                                                                                                     boron and boron compounds mg/l               10               10              3             0.1     0.1
     boron and boron compounds                       mg/l            10                10             10             0.10   0.15
                                                                                                                                     ammonia and ammonium compounds,
     ammonia and ammonium compounds,                                                                                                                                   mg/l      100              100             50              20     24
                                                     mg/l          100          100           100          10.0           24         nitrite and nitrate compounds
     nitrite and nitrate compounds
    <air measurement>                                                                                                                <air measurement>
         item         equipment                       unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum       item       equipment                   unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     hydrogen sulfide vacuum incinerator              ppm           0.02             0.02           0.02 <0.0005 <0.0005                            once-through boiler no.1   g/m n
                                                                                                                                                                                   3
                                                                                                                                                                                          0.3              0.3            0.3            0.002   0.003
                                                                                                                                         soot       once-through boiler no.2   g/m n      0.3              0.3            0.3            0.004   0.006
                                                                                                                                                                                   3
    <noise measurement>
                                                                                                                                                    once-through boiler no.3   g/m n      0.3              0.3            0.3            0.002   0.002
                                                                                                                                                                                   3

                      place                           unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                                                                                                                                    once-through boiler no.1    ppm      260               260           100               85      88
     north (morning･evening)                          db             60                60             60             48      59
                                                                                                                                         nox        once-through boiler no.2    ppm      260               260           260               84      84
     east (morning･evening)                           db             60                60             60             48      60
                                                                                                                                                    once-through boiler no.3    ppm      260               260           260               82      89
     south (morning･evening)                          db             60                60             60             46      56
                                                                                                                                                    once-through boiler no.1   m n/h     0.13             0.13           0.13            0.018   0.018
                                                                                                                                                                                 3

     western angle of building d (morning･evening)    db             60                60             60             46      65
                                                                                                                                         sox        once-through boiler no.2   m n/h     0.13             0.13           0.13            0.015   0.016
                                                                                                                                                                                 3
     west (morning･evening)                           db             60                60             60             49      63
                                                                                                                                                    once-through boiler no.3   m n/h     0.13             0.13           0.13            0.017   0.018
                                                                                                                                                                                 3
     graveyard (morning･evening)                      db             60                60             60             44      54
              north (night)                           db             50                50             50             47     57*
                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                     <noise measurement>
               east (night)                           db             50                50             50             47     53*
                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                             place                              unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
              south (night)                           db             50                50             50             44     52*
                                                                                                                                1
                                                                                                                                     east (morning･evening)                     db             65                65             65             57      59
     western angle of building d (morning･evening)    db             50                50             50             45     59*
                                                                                                                                1


              west (night)                            db             50                50             50             48     54*
                                                                                                                                1


         graveyard (night)                            db             50                50             50             43      48
    *1: the data excess by the sound of insects and frogs.

    godo plant
    <wastewater measurement - west>
                       item                           unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     ph                                                         5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6                        7.8      8
     bod                                             mg/l           160                15             15             0.5     1.8
                                                                                  regulation of regulation of
     cod                                             mg/l           160                                              1.4     3.8
                                                                                  total emission total emission
     ss                                              mg/l           200                30             30             3.2    22.0
     n-h mineral oils                                mg/l              5                5              5             <1      <1
                                                                                  regulation of
     nitrogen                                        mg/l           120                               60             1.1     1.6
                                                                                  total emission
                                                                                  regulation of
     phosphorus                                      mg/l            16                                8            0.06     0.1
                                                                                  total emission
    <wastewater measurement - east>
                       item                           unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     ph                                                         5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6                        7.3     7.8
     bod                                             mg/l           160                15             15             4.3    11.0
                                                                                  regulation of regulation of
     cod                                             mg/l           160                                              4.9     9.2
                                                                                  total emission total emission
     ss                                              mg/l           200                30             30             1.6     5.0
     n-h mineral oils                                mg/l              5                5              5             <1      <1
                                                                                  regulation of
     nitrogen                                        mg/l           120                               60             8.7     20
                                                                                  total emission
                                                                                  regulation of
     phosphorus                                      mg/l            16                                8             1.0     2.3
                                                                                  total emission
    <air measurement>
          item              equipment                 unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
          soot               exhaust                 g/m n      0.2              0.2            0.2            0.003   0.004
                                                        3


          nox                exhaust                  ppm       60                60             60             <4      <4
    <noise measurement>
              place                                   unit      national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     east (morning･evening)                           db             60                60             60             47      55
     south (morning･evening)                          db             60                60             60             46      59
     west (morning･evening)                           db             60                60             60             46      60
     north (morning･evening)                          db             60                60             60             43      49
           east (night)                               db             50                50             50             46     53*
                                                                                                                                1


          south (night)                               db             50                50             50             45     63*
                                                                                                                                1


           west (night)                               db             50                50             50             46     61*
                                                                                                                                1


          north (night)                               db             50                50             50             42      48
    *1: the data excess by the sound of insects and frogs.                                                                                corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 33




53889312309.indd             33                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2011/11/16   15:39:07

    ibiden engineering co., ltd                                                                                     ibiden jushi co., ltd
    <wastewater measurement>                                                                                        <air measurement>
                item                unit       national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum      item    equipment     unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     ph                                        5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6                         6.9    7.3                boiler no.1             0.3              0.3           0.24           0.0065 0.008
                                                                                                                       soot                (g/m n)
                                                                                                                                                3

                                                                                   600                                         boiler no.3             0.3              0.3           0.24            0.012   0.013
     bod                           mg/l            600               600                             3.5    10
                                                                               [bod+2×ss]                                      boiler no.1            7.07             7.07           5.65             0.29    0.43
                                                                                                                       sox                 (m n/h)
                                                                                                                                              3

     cod                           mg/l                -                -              -             2.7    4.8                boiler no.3            3.68             3.68           2.95            0.034   0.057
                                                                                   600                                         gas turbine             70                70             60              52      58
     ss                            mg/l            600               600                              4      7
                                                                               [bod+2×ss]                              nox     boiler no.1 (ppm)      180               180           144               61      62
     copper                        mg/l               3                3              3             0.07   0.50                boiler no.3            180              180            144               67      72
     lead                          mg/l             0.1              0.1            0.1            <0.01 <0.01
     chromium                      mg/l               2                2              2            <0.02 <0.02
     hexavalent chromium
     fluorine
                                   mg/l
                                   mg/l
                                                    0.5
                                                      8
                                                                     0.5
                                                                       8
                                                                                    0.5
                                                                                      8
                                                                                                   <0.02 <0.02
                                                                                                   <0.10    0.2
                                                                                                                    ibiden bussan co., ltd
     cyanide                       mg/l               1                1              1            <0.01 <0.01      <wastewater measurement>
     1･1･1 trichloroethane         mg/l               3                3              3           <0.0005 <0.0005            item                 unitnational standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     1･1･2 trichloroethane         mg/l            0.06             0.06           0.06 <0.0006 <0.0006             ph                                5.8 ～ 8.6 5.8 ～ 8.6 6.1 ～ 8.3                        7.3     7.5
     1･3 dichloropropanes          mg/l            0.02             0.02           0.02 <0.001 <0.001               bod                        （mg/l） 160                   100             80             1.5     2.7
     1･2 dichloroethane            mg/l            0.04             0.04           0.04 <0.0004 <0.0004             cod                        （mg/l） 160                   160           128              3.3     5.9
     1･1 dichloroethylene          mg/l             0.2              0.2            0.2           <0.002 <0.002     ss                         （mg/l） 200                    90             72             2.5      5
     cis- 1･2 dichloroethylene     mg/l             0.4              0.4            0.4           <0.004 <0.004     n-h mineral oils           （mg/l）      10                10              8             <1      <1
     trichloroethylene             mg/l             0.3              0.3            0.3           <0.002 <0.002     nitrogen                   （mg/l） 120                  120              96             2.4      7
     tetrachloroethylene           mg/l             0.1              0.1            0.1           <0.0005 <0.0005   phosphorus                 （mg/l）      16                16           12.8            0.05    0.07
     dichloromethane               mg/l             0.2              0.2            0.2           <0.002 <0.002
     carbon tetrachloride          mg/l            0.02             0.02           0.02 <0.0002 <0.0002             <air measurement>
     cadmium                       mg/l             0.1              0.1            0.1            <0.01 <0.01
                                                                                                                       item     equipment    unit national standard city standard voluntary standard average maximum
     phenol                        mg/l               5                5              5            <0.1    <0.1
                                                                                                                                boiler no.1            0.3              0.3           0.24            0.004   0.005
     n-h mineral oils              mg/l               5                5              5              <1     <1
                                                                                                                                boiler no.2            0.3              0.3           0.24            0.017   0.029
     arsenic                       mg/l             0.1              0.1            0.1            <0.01 <0.01
                                                                                                                       soot     boiler no.3 g/m n      0.3              0.3           0.24            0.010   0.015
                                                                                                                                               3

     alkyl mercury                 mg/l             nd               nd             nd              nd      nd
                                                                                                                                boiler no.4            0.3              0.3           0.24            0.019   0.027
     organic phosphorus            mg/l               1                1              1            <0.01 <0.01
                                                                                                                                boiler no.5            0.3              0.3           0.24            0.008   0.012
     polyhalogenated biphenyl      mg/l          0.003             0.003         0.003 <0.0005 <0.0005
                                                                                                                                boiler no.1           180              180            114              73      78
     zinc                          mg/l               2                2              2             0.02   0.14
                                                                                                                                boiler no.2           180              180            114              52      66
     manganese                     mg/l             10                10             10             0.01   0.02
                                                                                                                       nox      boiler no.3 (ppm） 180                  180            114              75      86
     benzene                       mg/l             0.1              0.1            0.1           <0.001 <0.001
                                                                                                                                boiler no.4           180              180            114              66      78
     boron and boron compounds     mg/l             10                10             10            <0.10 <0.10
                                                                                                                                boiler no.5           180              180            114              49      55




    ibiden electronics (beijing) co., ltd.                                                                          ibiden philippines,inc.
    <wastewater measurement>                                                                                        <wastewater measurement>
                 item             unit                      city standard voluntary standard average maximum                      item                        unit      industrial park standard voluntary standard average maximum
     ph                                                       6 ～ 9 6.2 ～ 8.5                  7.1     7.7          ph                                                   6.5 - 9.0 6.7 - 8.8                           7.7    8.5
     bod                         （mg/l）                         300           270               28     45           bod                                      mg/l             500                    400               85    366
     cod                         （mg/l）                         500           450              110    183           cod                                      mg/l             800                    700               22     55
     ss                          （mg/l）                        400            360              29      36           total suspended solids, tss              mg/l             350                    280                5     22
     copper                      （mg/l）                           1            0.5             0.2     0.4          ss                                       mg/l               0.5                   0.4             0.08   0.50
     cyanide                      mg/l                            1            0.5            0.01    0.02          copper                                   mg/l                  1                  0.8             0.25   0.67
     ni                           mg/l                            1            0.9            0.14    0.23          lead                                     mg/l               0.3                  0.24            0.001   0.03
     n-h mineral oils             mg/l                           10              9              1      1.1          chromium (hexavalent)                    mg/l               0.1                  0.08             nd      nd
     animal oil and vegetable oil mg/l                          100             50             2.3     4.6          cyanide                                  mg/l              0.2                   0.16            0.004   0.14
                                                                                                                    nickel                                   mg/l              0.5                    0.4            0.004   0.06
    <air measurement>                                                                                               color                                    pcu              150                    120               36    106
                                                                                                                    oil & grease                             mg/l                  5                    4             0.9     4.8
        item       equipment       unit                     city standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                                                                                                    iron (dissolved)                         mg/l               10                      8             nd      nd
     h2so4                        mg/m                            5            4.5             0.8     2.5
                                        3

                                                                                                                    manganese (dissolved)                    mg/l                  1                  0.8            0.02    0.40
     hcl                          mg/m                           30             25             2.6     5.3
                                        3
                   bjs tower                                                                                        formaldehyde                             mg/l                  1                  0.8            0.10    0.86
                   (scrubber
     nmhc           emissions) mg/m                             80            70           3.3          8.0
                                    3




     toluene                         mg/m
                                           3
                                                                25           20         0.04          0.16          <air measurement>
     soot             air exhaust mg/m                          30           25          4.1           9.7                       item                        unit national standard voluntary standard average maximum
                                          3


     hcn              <hcn> exhaust mg/m                        1.9          0.9        <0.09         <0.09         nox                                     mg/m    2,000             1,600              234     462
                                          3                                                                                                                      3


                                                                                                                    sox                                     mg/m    1,500             1,200               24      36
                                                                                                                                                                 3
                      carbon surface
     phenol                          mg/m                       20            15          0.10         0.19
                                          3

                      discharge port                                                                                particulate matter (pm)                 mg/m
                                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                      150               120              21       29
     ammonia deodorization mg/m                                 30           25           0.9          1.5          carbon monoxide (co)                    mg/m      500               400              64      163
                                          3                                                                                                                      3


     hydrogen sulfide     tower      mg/m
                                          3
                                                                5            4.5         0.006        0.006         copper (cu)                             mg/m
                                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                      100                 80            0.002   0.005


    <noise measurement>                                                                                             <noise measurement>
               time                 unit                    city standard voluntary standard average maximum                    time                          unit      national standard voluntary standard average maximum
             daytime               db (a)                        65           64.5            60.8    63.7          morning (5am - 9am)                       db             65                 56             54      55
             nightime              db (a)                        55           54.5            51.9    53.8          daytime (9am - 6pm)                       db             70                 57             54      55
                                                                                                                    evening (6pm - 10pm)                      db             65                 55             53      55
                                                                                                                    nightime (10pm - 5am)                     db             60                 56             53      53




                                                                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 34




53889312309.indd    34                                                                                                                                                                                                   2011/11/16   15:39:08

    social contribution

      basic policy

    we aim to contribute to local communities by taking advantage of our unique corporate characteristics, in-
    cluding our capacity to improve living environments and to offer opportunities for personal development. we
    take part in and support groups involved in activities of this nature. we also undertake our own community
    projects across the globe, tailoring them to local cultures and customs, and earning the trust of the interna-
    tional community.



                                        s forest”
      forest building activities:“ibiden’

    in fiscal year 2008, we embarked on a forest building initiative as part of
    our global environmental protection activities. this activity takes place
    chiefly in higashi-yokoyama, the place where ibiden was founded, and
    where the company operates its initial hydroelectric power generation
    business. over the next 10 years, we will be planting trees, thinning the for-
    ests and conducting improvement cutting in the district, with an approxi-
    mate total area of 40 hectares in the town of ibigawa. together with the
    local public, employees and their family members, we will continue to car-
    ry out sustainability activities aimed at maintaining harmony with nature.




    providing the experience of environmental protection
    ibiden not only engages in reforestation projects to stop global warming but also provides a place where
    employees, their families and local residents can experience forest building.




    demonstrating the importance of environmental protection and interacting with na-          conducting new employee training
    ture through hands-on tree planting experiences                                            aimed at conveying the significance of
                                                                                               environmental protection and raising the
                                                                                               awareness of social contribution



    offering a place for interaction with employees, their families and the local community
    in collaboration with the local authorities, its residents, and nonprofit organizations (npos), we undertake
    projects ranging from tree planting activities, the maintenance of walking trails in planted areas and nature
    walks to community exchange using the forests and local cultures in the community of the ibigawa river.




    implementing events such as a craft making session using thinned wood as part of           organizing a wilderness experience class
    the tree planting activity and a steamed-bun making session using the wild vegeta-         in the fall in collaboration with local
    ble“sawa-azami,”picked from local mountains                                                npos

                                                                           corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 35




53889312309.indd   35                                                                                                               2011/11/16   15:39:08

      how to promote social contribution activities

    focusing on our priority areas, which are“protecting the global environment,”“fostering the next generation,”
   “contributing to social welfare and local communities,”and“disaster relief activities,”we promote the social
    contribution activities of the ibiden group, and at the same time, we encourage our employees to voluntarily
    participate in non-profit social contribution activities.
    ・we established the“social contribution committee”to facilitate our social contribution efforts.
    ・we set up the“social contribution fund”to support the company’       s social contribution activities and the
      social contribution activity groups in which the company employees participate.
    ・we implement the“volunteer encouragement program”which encourages the employees of the domestic
      ibiden group companies to engage in volunteer activities.


      protecting the global environment

    [planting activities worldwide]
                                                     <ibiden electronics (beijing), launch of tree-planting initiative in commemoration of its 10th anniversary>
                                                     ibiden electronics (beijing), which celebrated its 10th anniversary in 2010,
                                                     embarked on tree-planting activities in a beijing suburb. its april event was
                                                     participated in by some 200 staff members and others, who planted 220
                                                     trees.




                                                     <ibiden philippines,“earth day pledge”>
                                                     in time for earth day organized by the united nations, ibiden philippines
                                                     held a tree planting event in march 2011. 81 employees and 16 local resi-
                                                     dents voluntarily participated in this event, planting a total of 100“mahog-
                                                     any trees”outside of ibiden philippines plant.



    [actions for a cleaner community]
    <ibiden domestic groups: voluntary cleanup activity in a community>
    the ibiden group regularly conducts
    community cleanup and beautification
    activities in the areas where it operates.
    in 2010, more than 5,800 of our employ-
    ees took part in the group’                 s self-initiated
    actions. in addition, a number of employ-
    ees serve as volunteer crew for cleanup                                          s clean-river action
                                                                        ibiden bussan’                            group alumni’ s environmental beautifi-
    activities organized by the group’                        s alum-                                             cation action
    ni, municipal governments (such as the city of ogaki) and local npos.

                                                     <ibiden hungary: removal of illegally dumped waste>
                                                     every march or april, ibiden hungary joins hands with local resident volun-
                                                     teers to engage in an action to remove illegally dumped waste. activities in-
                                                     cluding posting of sign boards calling for a halt in illegal dumping in the
                                                     hope that a greater number of people will increase their awareness of the
                                                     environment.




    <ibiden philippines coastline cleanup activity>
    we planned and carried out the coastline cleanup of an area about 15km away from our plant in an effort to
    make the local community an even more comfortable, cleaner and attractive place to live. thirty employees of
    the company and 9 residents of the community volunteered to participate in the cleanup event.
                                                                                        corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 36




53889312309.indd   36                                                                                                                                    2011/11/16   15:39:09

    <participation in the co2 reduction / light-down campaign>
    we take part in the co2 reduction / light-down (i.e. lights-off) campaign being run by the ministry of the en-
    vironment as a means to stop global warming. during the campaign period, the lights for the rooftop sign-
    board at our aoyanagi plant were switched off at certain times.


      fostering the next generation

    [ibiden tour – learning from“water”      ]
    we conduct hands-on tours for elementary school children and their par-
    ents from the local community, offering them an opportunity to learn about
    nature and electricity. the participants visit the hydroelectric power plant,
    which is the origin of our business, to learn about hydroelectric power gen-
    eration and the history of the region’ s development. both parents and chil-
    dren also can enjoy themselves and study the structure and functions of a
    water wheel by actually making one.



        stakeholder’s voice shin ogasawara, vice director, wabot-house laboratory, waseda university
        we support a family facility tour to educate the public about the appeal of the hi-
        gashi-yokoyama power plant, our predecessors’legacy as well as our facility cur-
        rently operating as one of the cores of our business, and also to provide opportu-
        nities for employees to rediscover their company’        s resources. in terms of building
        a trustworthy relationship with the locals and planning long-term development as
        well as securing of human resources by communicating the ibiden’              s philosophy
        of growing hand in hand with the local community, the role of social contribution
        is significant. at the same time, particularly when envisioning our future business
        expansion, our social contribution will play an important role in the future, and i
        have great expectations for it.


    [ibiden cup youth soccer tournament]
    we annually hold a youth soccer tournament on health sports day for the
    development of young people and local revitalization through sports. in
    2010, 33 teams of boys and girls from not only gifu prefecture but also
    aichi, mie, and shiga prefectures participated in the tournament, where
    they played exciting games.


    [support for the hiro gakuen academy, a school for brazilian expatri-
    ates]
    in 2007, the group began to assist the hiro gakuen academy, a school attended by brazilian children in
    ogaki, gifu prefecture. the group partially subsidizes the cost of textbook purchases and supports school op-
    eration and youth development programs.

    [ibiden philippines support activities for a local elementary school]
    ibiden philippines visited sala elementary school in the region and donated statio-
    nery to the schoolchildren. the stationery was purchased using funds donated by
    the employees, who also volunteered to help pack the stationery.




                                            [ibiden dpf france and others: plant visits by local children]
                                            ibiden dpf france gives plant tours to local junior high school students. a
                                            tour includes a plant visit, briefing on dpf and exchanges of opinion. stu-
                                            dent visitors enjoy rare opportunities to view production lines in operation
                                            and develop a better understanding of work performed by a variety of
                                            people through information exchanges. ibiden hungary also offers similar
                                            tours.
                                                                        corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 37




53889312309.indd   37                                                                                                            2011/11/16   15:39:09

      contributing to social welfare and local communities

    [participation in the mikoshi parade in the jumangoku festival in ogaki]
    the ibiden group is a regular participant in the kigyo
    mikoshi (portable shire) parade section of the juman-
    goku festival hosted by the city of ogaki every october.
    ibiden’   s scope of involvement expanded in fiscal 2009,
    when its employees initiated post-festival cleaning activi-
    ties around the thoroughfare leading to the main train
    station. ibiden strongly advocates local revitalization ef-
    forts, which it tries to help by amplifying the festival spirit together with local residents.

                                          [support for the ibigawa marathon]
                                          we provide support for the ibigawa marathon, a sporting event that takes
                                          place in the town of ibigawa-cho every november. the group supports
                                          operations of the event by making available its parking lots adjacent to its
                                          plants in ibigawa-cho. group employees also serve as traffic controllers
                                          and staff at water stations along the marathon route.




    [in-house blood donation drives]
    in a voluntary move to alleviate the chronic blood supply shortage that
    plagues gifu prefecture, the group runs blood donation drives. more than
    520 ibiden members understood the need to secure a stable supply of blood
    for medical use through volunteer blood donation and served as blood do-
    nors in fiscal 2010. based on the past donation records, the group has regis-
    tered itself as a japan red cross blood donation supporter, committing itself
    to ongoing and periodic contributions to the program.
        furthermore, ibiden philippines has been participating in blood donation
    drives for the past five years. in recognition of its ongoing blood donation ac-
    tivities, ibiden philippines received a letter of appreciation from the philip-
    pine red cross, batangas branch.



    [ibiden hungary donation of personal computers to the local police]
    in may 2011, ibiden hungary invited the chief of the local police to the company and donated personal com-
    puters and monitors in response to their request for help with their computerization.




                                                                    corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 38




53889312309.indd   38                                                                                                        2011/11/16   15:39:10

      disaster relief activities

    [the great east japan earthquake support]
    we asked for support throughout the group for the areas affected by the
    disaster and sent these areas donations and relief supplies such as blan-
    kets, water and gas oil. a significant amount of donations were also made
    by the overseas group companies through fund-raising activities by the
    employees, charity auctions, etc.




    [ibiden electronic beijing: fund-raising for the victims of the sichuan and qinghai earthquakes]
    china experienced two major earthquakes in recent
    years: the sichuan earthquake in 2008 and the qinghai
    earthquake in 2010. aside from the ibiden group’      s
    donations to aid relief efforts at the affected regions,
    the group employees organized their own fund-rais-
    ing drives seeking contributions from fellow employ-
    ees. all donations were sent to the office of beijing
    economic technological development area (bda),
    which handed them over to the chinese red cross to support their relief and rebuilding activities.



      encouraging volunteerism

    [volunteer encouragement program]
    ibiden and its domestic group companies provide special leave for volunteers (a special paid leave of up to 7
    days a year) as a volunteering encouragement program. in addition, the social contribution committee grants
    awards to employees according to our internal rules.

    [
    “chovola  activities”simple action to start volunteering]
    as volunteer activities in which anyone can casually participate, we are facilitating“chovola activities”within
    the group, in which spoiled postcards, used stamps and plastic bottle caps are collected and donated. using
    a simple activity as an opportunity for our employees to start volunteering, we deliver information on local
    volunteer programs internally and invite the employees to participate in a wide range of volunteer activities.

    [synchronized actions between oversea bases and japan]
    the ibiden group has made donations to support environmental
    group in time with environmental education activities at oversea
    base. the donations are raised by the group’    s employees and
    alumni in japan who organize drives to collect unused books and
    cds exchange them for cash during the new year holidays.




                                                                            environmental education activity
                                                                            (ibiden philippines)




                                                                corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 39




53889312309.indd   39                                                                                                    2011/11/16   15:39:10

    social responsibility for our products

      quality management that supports customers-first values

    in line with the customers-first values included in the ibiden way, the group meets the needs of customers
    through unique technologies and designs that consider the global environment. we understand that our great-
    est mission is to consistently supply safe and reliable products.
        we seek to achieve high customer satisfaction by putting customer needs at the forefront of our product
    development process, by accepting only the highest quality at the design stage, by incorporating mechanisms
    that ensure quality into the product-making stage, and by creating a management system that provides the
    necessary support.



      quality assurance system

    to benefit our customers and the community with quality products, we conduct design reviews and hold
    quality assurance meetings to study the design and specifications at each stage of the manufacturing process,
    from the development of cutting-edge technologies, through product planning and design, to mass produc-
    tion.




                                                              customer satisfaction
                                               offering safe, reassuring and eco-friendly products

                                                              p                                            s
                                      d                                                                                              d
             customers-
             first activities
                                           design and                          quality                  product-making
                                                                                                                                             p=plan
                                                                                                                                             s=standard
                                           developing                                                                                        d=do
                                                                                                                                             c=check
                                      c                                                                                              c       a=action


                                  diligent
                                                              a                                             a                            tpm activity
                                                                                                                                 (total productive management)
                                quality care
                                  from the
                                 beginning                        ems                               qms
                                                              (environmental                         (quality
                                                               management                          management
                                                                  system)                            system)
                                                                               core system

             systems                             isms
                                               (information                                                            ic
             supporting                           security
                                               management
                                                                                                                (internal control)

             customers-                           system)
                                                                                 ohsas
             first practices                                                    (occupational
                                                                               health and safety
                                                                                 assessment
                                                                                    series)




                                                                                    corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 40




53889312309.indd   40                                                                                                                                            2011/11/16   15:39:12

    corporate responsibility goal summary

       csr
                                               items                                     s responsibilities
                                                                             ibiden group’                                        major items for implementation target in fiscal year 2010
       management
                                     enhancing customer        offering stable, high‒quality products                             reinforcing quality management systems
                                     satisfaction              support by advancing ibi‒techno and leading‒edge tech-             creating a global support system aimed at becoming no. 1
                                                               nologies, placing customers first                                  in terms of customer satisfaction
                                                               appropriate disclosure and provision of product information        creating a group‒based and global quality information man-
                                                                                                                                  agement structure and system
     partnership with all of




                                                                                                                                  reinforcing ipm activities through the integration of four do-
       our stakeholders




                                                                                                                                  mains of ibi‒techno
                                                                                                                                  developing human resources with business mind, skills and
                                                                                                                                  sense
                                     strengthening supply      offering open trading opportunities and selecting suppliers        developing monitoring systems for fair, just dealings
                                     chain                     fairly                                                             drafting a supplier auditing plan including green procurement
                                                               making our csr procurement policies clear to all and offering      from the csr perspective
                                                               support to suppliers                                               developing csr procurement policies targeting overseas
                                                                                                                                  suppliers

                                     responsibilities to       maintaining and enhancing corporate value                          sending booklets for shareholders before shareholders’
                                     shareholders and inves-   disclosing appropriate information fairly at appropriate times     meetings
                                     tors                                                                                         disclosing information on shareholders’meetings on the
                                                                                                                                  company website
                                                                                                                                  improving the disclosure of information on the environment,
                                                                                                                                  society and corporate governance
                                     corporate governance      strengthening internal control functions                           providing ongoing guidance and support for the operation
                                                               augmenting and strengthening management oversight func-            of regulations and guidelines to our domestic and foreign
                                                               tions of the board of directors and the auditing functions of      group companies
                                                               corporate auditors                                                                                        s internal auditing
                                                                                                                                  ensuring the effectiveness of the group’
                                                               establishing transparent corporate governance organization         system
                                                               that can satisfy the trust of shareholders and society

                                     compliance                thoroughly complying with domestic and foreign laws,               continually implementing compliance seminars for each tier
                                                               regulations, the company’ s articles of incorporation, internal    implementing compliance education for workplaces
                                                               regulations and corporate ethics                                   preventing violations and recurrences through the compli-
                                                               becoming a company trusted by international society                ance reporting system
         internal control




                                                               through open and fair corporate activities                         increasing quality of trade management and establishing
                                                                                                                                  systems for maintaining qualifications as an aeo‒certified
                                                                                                                                  company
                                                                                                                                  building trade systems for foreign subsidiaries


                                     control of the trade      protecting information assets from earthquakes and other           introducing constant auditing of information access right and
                                     secret                    disasters and other intentional threats                            log management
                                     (information security)    maintaining the four factors of information systems: usability,    globally standardizing pc encryption as an antivirus measure
                                                               completeness, confidentiality, and social trustworthiness

                                     risk management           ensuring safety and health of employees and suppliers, and         managing the big picture of risks and implementing com-
                                                               conserving business resources                                      pany‒wide initiatives on high‒priority risks
                                                               activities not detrimental to the safety, health or interests of   flexibly dealing with risks according to changes in the busi-
                                                               shareholders, customers or regional and international society      ness environment and changes in orders received
                                                               taking responsible action when risks surface and endeavor-         appointing csr officers and improving educational systems
                                                               ing to promptly deal with circumstances for recovery               for each tier
                                                               through our risk management reflecting social demands
                                                               related to risk
                                     respect for the human     respect for the basic human rights of employees                    establishing systems for confirming efforts toward labor‒re-
                                     rights                    respect for diversity                                              lated human rights within the group
                                                                                                                                  considering the standardization of the employees’code of
                                                                                                                                  conduct for the entire group
         human resource management




                                     labor practices           utilizing and cultivating human resources                          building new human resource development systems (rein-
                                                               fair appraisal and fair treatment                                  forcing and improving specialized education)
                                                               maintaining and enhancing professional skills and motivation       creating a database and building a structure for controlling hu-
                                                               work‒life balance (supporting diverse work styles)                 man resource development throughout the company
                                                               creating a vibrant corporate culture that values dialogue and      implementing educational training to promote the active in-
                                                               communication                                                      volvement of female employees
                                                                                                                                  thoroughly managing working hours and reducing employee
                                                                                                                                  overtime
                                                                                                                                  facilitating internal communication


                                                               providing employees with a working environment in which            offering educational activities designed to help achieve the
                                                               they can work vigorously and without anxiety                       goals of the“health 100 plan,”an initiative for improving
                                                               activities to improve employees’physical and mental health         health vigorously
                                                                                                                                  improving the level of occupational health management
                                                                                                                                  increasing the rate of using the e‒health check system
                                                                                                                                  providing thorough safety education to new employees and
                                                                                                                                  others
                                                                                                                                  improving the level of utilizing risk assessment and activities to
                                                                                                                                  foresee potential accidents and hazards (hiyari‒hatto activity)
                                                                                                                                  implementing activities designed to enhance each employ-
                                                                                                                                  ee’s safety awareness health
                                     coping with climate       reducing greenhouse gas emissions                                  reducing co₂ emissions per production unit (reduction of
                                     change issues             ‒ improving energy saving and reducing specific energy con-        10% compared to fiscal year 2008)
                                                               sumption                                                           using designs taking energy conservation into consideration
                                                               ‒ promoting positive and effective use of clean energy             for newly introduced facilities
                                                                                                                                  laterally deploying actual practices of energy conservation
                                                                                                                                  improvement
                                                                                                                                  increasing the maintenance management level which com-
                                                                                                                                  plies with the energy conservation act
         environment management




                                     resource‒circulating      promoting resource circulating activities                          reducing the amount of water withdrawal rate (reduction of
                                     society                   ‒ reducing water withdrawal and the unit load of cleaning          10% compared to fiscal year 2008)
                                                               water used and improving the water recycling ratio                 introducing the electronic manifest program and creating a
                                                               ‒ reducing the unit load of solid waste                            waste information database
                                                               ‒ reducing the amount of paper used

                                     chemical management       cutting the use of chemicals to be reduced                         developing systems for chemical control through the opera-
                                                               preventing the proliferation of chemicals                          tion of special committees
                                                               conducting business activities by taking biodiversity into ac-     increasing the efficiency of dealing with laws and regulations
                                                               count                                                              as well as responding to customers by introducing a chemi-
                                                               chemical control throughout the entire supply chain                cal control system
                                                               offering environmentally considerate products and technol-         creating evaluation criteria for chemical control at the prod-
                                                               ogy                                                                uct development phase and constructing a reviewing system
                                     improvement in man-       complying with environmental rules and regulations of japan        integrating environment/occupational health and safety man-
                                     agement (system/          and other countries                                                agement systems
                                     audit/education)          increasing the level of environmental management by oper-          implementing auditing and patrols based on the plan, do,
                                                               ating and integrating an environment management system             check, act (pdca) cycle for making suggestions, discoveries
                                                               increasing awareness about environmental protection for all        and improvements
                                                               employees                                                          improving quality through education
                                                               developing and improving for purposes and goals of environ-
                                                               mental protection
                                     contribution to local     cultivating the next generation of people in regional commu-       expanding social contribution activities
     contribution




                                     communities               nities                                                                                                                           s
                                                                                                                                  ‒ expanding participating cooperation for activities of ibiden’
                                                               conducting a dialogue with regional communities                    forest and blood donation
       social




                                                               respecting local culture, natural features and customs             ‒ urging employees to participate in the volunteer encour-
                                                               protecting local biodiversity                                      agement program




                                                                                                                     corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 41




53889312309.indd                          41                                                                                                                                                  2011/11/16   15:39:13

                   major item implemented in fiscal year 2010 and                         self-                  priority item for implementation plan and
                                                                                                      page
                         management indices for outcomes                               evaluation                         targets in fiscal year 2011
     established routine company-wide initiatives on no.1 customer satisfaction                                sharing market information through the camp for
     activities by holding monthly camp for enhancing competitiveness                                          enhancing competitiveness
     promoted four working groups to advance four ibi-techno capabilities as                                   continuous communicating with the customers
     ipm activities                                                                                    p14     reforming and improving in existing fields
     advanced development of management system with sectional meeting                    ★★★                   through tpm activities
     for ibiden management system                                                                      p39     continuing to monitor and review customer sat-
     streamlined the group’s educational system and curriculum with sectional                                  isfaction
     meeting for four ibi-techno human resources development

     compiled a plan to develop group-wide initiatives on supplier csr acti-                                   establishing supplier csr guidelines and holding
     vates worldwide.                                                                                          the briefing session to explain it
     drew up drafts of supplier csr guidelines and csr survey sheets                                           checking the status of compliance with supplier
     considered the establishment of compliance consultation service for sup-            ★★★           p11     csr guidelines and visiting to check it
     pliers                                                                                                    establishing compliance consultation service for
                                                                                                               suppliers
     sending booklets for shareholders before shareholders’meetings                                            surveying to improve external corporate evalua-
     implemented information disclosure of shareholders’meeting on the                                         tion continuously
     company website                                                                                  p6-7     implementing information disclosure based on
                                                                                          ★★
     improved external corporate evaluation by enhancing csr disclosure                               p43      international guidelines


     confirmed the status of complying regulations and guidelines of the do-                                   providing ongoing advice and support about
     mestic and overseas group companies (ensured there was no violation of                                    implementation of regulations and guidelines for
     regulations in high-risk decision making regarding compliance with regula-                                the domestic and overseas group companies
     tions of authority especially)                                                      ★★★          p7-9     ensuring the effectiveness of the group’s internal
     continually monitored internal control of the group companies (collected                                  auditing system
     information related to risk and compliance, and the countermeasures were
     taken as necessary by the related divisions)
     improved compliance education for each rank of mid-career employees                                       continually implementing compliance seminars
     set a theme for each plant and carried out the activities to enhance the                                  for each tier
     level                                                                                                     implementing theme activities for each plant
     conducted activities to raise awareness for further credibility of compli-                                preventing a recurrence of compliance issues
     ance consultation service                                                                                 and obviating the occurrence by applying the
     continually implemented trade management seminars                                                         practices to the other
     gained an understanding of the actual situation in the trade system of                                    increasing quality of trade management and es-
     overseas subsidiaries                                                               ★★★         p12-13    tablishing systems for maintaining qualifications
                                                                                                               maintenance of the trade system of overseas
                                                                                                               subsidiaries
     established rules and operations to prevent computer abuse with log man-                                  introducing constant auditing of information ac-
     agement                                                                                                   cess right and log management to prevent com-
     globally commenced to consolidate group-wide information security mea-                                    puter abuse
     sures                                                                                                     globally maintaining standardization of informa-
                                                                                                               tion security measures
     established the risk management promotional working group to develop                                      establishing a systematic risk assessment method
     key risk management                                                                                       continually dealing with critical risks in risk man-
     promoted a response to newly emerging risks associated with environ-                                      agement promotional working group
     mental changes                                                                                            identifying laws affecting each division to monitor it
                                                                                          ★★         p10-11


     developed the ibiden group charter of behavior including human-rights                                     implementing the charter of behavior throughout
     issue                                                                                                     the group companies
     coped with issues identified by the third-party audit including labor man-           ★★         p5, p14
     agement
     developed specialized educational system by ipm enhancement work-                                         developing and executing system of four special-
     ing group (improved the system and contents in four working groups:                                       ized education (ensuring relevancy and consis-
     management of business, management of technology, total productive                                        tency with the each subject to implement the
     management, and management capability)                                                                    programs efficiently based on the educational
     conducted it-track management system regarding individual educational                                     system)
     history, the companies’actual implementation time and educational cost               ★★         p14-17    raising the level of the company-wide education
     implemented awareness training for improving the contribution of working                                  by introducing e-learn system to meet diversifying
     women and all female employees completed the training                                                     educational needs
     issued and distributed child care handbook for employees                                                  conducting survey interview with female employ-
                                                                                                               ees and managers
                                                                                                               providing information to the childcare leaves
     implemented the following programs of the health 100 plan: exercise habit                                 motivating for exercise habits and conducting
     encouragement, health demonstration sessions at cafeteria, blood pres-                                    events
     sure checks and anti-smoking supports                                                                     improving utilization of e-health check system
     introduced a system for all employees to input the data into the e-health                                 enhancing workplace safety activities (strength-
     check system as mental health supports (the ibiden’ s input rate is 91.8%)                                ening accident prediction training to reduce po-
     provided environmental health and safety education training for fresh and            ★★         p18-19    tentially serious medical errors)
     young employees                                                                                           enhancing health and safety education utilizing
     implemented management training regarding obligation of security for                                      the e-learning system
     managers


     reduced co2 emissions per production unit (reduction of 13% compared                                      reducing co2 emissions per production unit (re-
     to fiscal year 2008)                                                                                      duction of 15% compared to fiscal year 2008)
     improved energy conservation with new or renewal introduction of high-                                    improving energy saving with the three pillars:
     efficient turbo refrigerators and air chillers                                                            (1) energy-saving design and development (2)
     laterally deployed actual practices of energy conservation improvement              ★★★         p22-23    energy-saving improvement applying to the other
     prepared domestic control standard to maintain energy of utility                                          (3) control of maintenance of energy


     reduced the amount of water withdrawal rate (reduction of 23% com-                                        reducing the amount of water withdrawal rate
     pared to fiscal year 2008)                                                                                (reduction of 23% compared to fiscal year 2008)
     carried out water conservation activities with the target of water with-                                  continually carrying out water conservation ac-
     drawal rate                                                                         ★★★           p24     tivities with the target of water withdrawal rate
     introduced electronic manifest and registration of asp into leading plant                                 introducing electronic manifest and registration
                                                                                                               of asp into main plants
     introduced chemical control system into the divisions involved in r&d,                                    introducing the system of chemical substances
     business development and quality assurance                                                                management into domestic subsidiaries and
     revised and operated green procurement guidelines                                                         overseas production subsidiaries
     formulated the guidelines of evaluation for chemical substances in the              ★★★           p25     establishing routine evaluation for chemical sub-
     stage of product development                                                                              stances in the stage of product development
     introduced the system of chemical substances management into our over-                                    conducting environmental audits of major sup-
     seas production subsidiary (ibiden beijing)                                                               plier
     integrated environmental management manual and occupational safety                                        operating the integrated manual and simplifying
     and health manual                                                                                         the rules and guidelines
     assessed our management system by internal/external audits to advance                                     continually improving environmental/occupa-
     the level of effectiveness                                                                                tional safety and health management system
                                                                                          ★★         p20-21    through internal audit and reassessment




     continually carried out tree-planting ceremony of ibiden’  s forest activities,                           revising the rules and guidelines of the group’ s
     bottom mowing and promenade maintenance, and nature observation                                           social contribution to encourage the group com-
     meetings                                                                                                  panies
     implemented environmental protection activities as part of employee edu-                         p26      developing ongoing social contribution activities
     cation programs for the new graduates                                               ★★★                   including ibiden’s forest and blood donation
     a total of 570 employees (1.7 times of the previous year) took part in blood                    p35-39
     donation
     a total of 17 employees and three organizations participated in the volun-
     teer encouragement programs


                                                                                            corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 42




53889312309.indd    42                                                                                                                                         2011/11/16   15:39:13

    corporate information (as of march 31, 2011)

      company outline
    trade name:          ibiden co., ltd.
    established:         november 25, 1912
    capital:             ¥64,152 million
    representative:      hiroki takenaka, president & ceo
    number of employees: consolidated 13,051 non-consolidated 3,226
    office and plants
    head office:         2-1, kanda-cho, ogaki city, gifu 503-8604, japan tel: 0584-81-3111
    branches:            tokyo, osaka
    plants:              gifu prefecture (ogaki, ogaki central, aoyanagi, gama, ogaki-kita, godo);
                         aichi prefecture (kinuura); tokyo research laboratory
    number of sub- consolidated subsidiaries: 39 (17 in japan, 22 overseas)
    sidiaries            equity-method subsidiary: 1 (japan)

      main business lines
     business segments                                      main products/business areas
     electronics operation printed wiring boards, package substrates, and pattern design for printed wiring boards
                             environment-related ceramics products, graphite specialty products, fine ceramics
     ceramics operation
                             products, ceramics fiber
     housing materials housing equipment, melamine decorative laminates and decorative laminates related
     operation               products
     c o n s t r u c t i o n design and construction of civil engineering works including slop protection construction
     operation               and landscape gardening, as well as of environmental facilities
                             synthetic resin processing, agriculture, livestock, and fishery processing, oil products sales,
     other operations
                             provision of information and other services

      change in business results
    net sales                                                  operating income                                        ordinary income
     （billion yen）                                            （billion yen）                                           （billion yen）
       500                                                     100                                                     100
                   398.6    413.5
       400                                                       80                                                      80       73.6
                                                                          68.9     67.2                                                  67.5
                                    309.3           304.9
       300                                  274.2                60                                                      60
       200                                                       40                                      33.8            40                                       33.5
                                                                                                 21.2                                                      19.4
       100                                                       20                       10.5
                                                                                                                         20
                                                                                                                                                     3.4
           0                                                       0                                                       0
                     06     07      08       09      10（fy）               06       07     08      09      10（fy）                  06      07         08    09     10（fy）
    net income                                                 net sales composition by business segments
       （billion yen）
         60                                                    other 6.4%                         electronics 60.7%
         50          48.3   46.0                               construction 3.9%

         40                                                    housing
         30                                                    materials 6.4%
                                                    19.7
         20
                                            11.8
         10
                                    (8.7)
          0
                                                               ceramics 22.6%
                     06     07       08      09      10（fy）

      disclosure of financial information
    ibiden takes steps to disclose information at appropriate times to share-                                                    website for shareholders and investors
    holders and investors in a fair, accurate, and easy-to-understand manner.                                                  http://www.ibiden.com/ir/index.html
    pursuant to the timely disclosure rule of the tokyo stock exchange, our
    information disclosure standards require the disclosure of information rel-
    evant to our operations, scope of business, and assets that could signifi-
    cantly affect investment judgments, as well as any changes or suspension
    of important corporate information that has already been published. our
    policy is to disclose such information proactively and fairly. we will also
    disclose corporate information that could significantly influence invest-
    ment judgments even if the timely disclosure rule does not apply, as ac-
    curately, promptly and appropriately as possible.
                                                                                                                            top page of ir website
                                                                                                 corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 43




53889312309.indd      43                                                                                                                                                  2011/11/16   15:39:14

      main subsidiaries and affiliates

                         company- japan                             location                                main business
     ibiden electronics industries co., ltd.          ogaki, gifu                               manufacture of electronic substrates
     ibiden greentec co., ltd.                        ogaki, gifu                               design and construction of special works
     ibiden chemicals co., ltd.                       ogaki, gifu                               manufacture and sales of chemical products
     ibiken co., ltd.                                 ogaki, gifu                               sale of housing materials
     ibiden graphite co., ltd.                        ogaki, gifu                               manufacture of graphite products
     ibiden industries co., ltd.                      ogaki, gifu                               sale of products and equipments
     tak co., ltd.                                    ogaki, gifu                               information services
     ibiden jushi co., ltd.                           ikeda-cho, ibi-gun, gifu                  manufacture of foamed-resin products
                                                                                                processing of agricultural and
     ibiden bussan co., ltd.                          ogaki, gifu
                                                                                                marine products
                                                                                                design and construction of
     ibiden engineering co., ltd.                     ogaki, gifu
                                                                                                mechanical facilities
     ibitech co., ltd.                                ogaki, gifu                               design of printed circuit boards
     ibiden career techno corp.                       ogaki, gifu                               temporary staffing services
     ibiden kenso co., ltd.                           ogaki, gifu                               sale of housing materials


                        company- overseas                           location                                main business
     ibiden international inc.                        illinois, u.s.a.                          investment and finance in u.s.a.
     micro mech, inc.                                 massachusetts, u.s.a.                     manufacture of graphite products
     ibiden u.s.a. r&d inc.                           california, u.s.a.                        research and product planning
                                                                                                sales of electronics substrates
     ibiden u.s.a. corp.                              california, u.s.a.
                                                                                                and graphite products
                                                                                                sales of electronics substrates
     ibiden canada inc.                               ontario, canada
                                                                                                and graphite products
     ibiden european holdings b.v.                    hoofddorp, the netherlands                investment and finance in europe
                                                                                                sales of electronics substrates
     ibiden europe b.v.                               hoofddorp, the netherlands
                                                                                                and graphite products
     ibiden hungary kft.                              neumann jános, hungary                    manufacture of dpf
     ibiden dpf france s.a.s.                         courtenay, france                         manufacture of dpf
     ibiden france s.a.s.                             paris, france                             sales of ceramic products
     ibiden deutschland gmbh                          stuttgart, germany                        sales of ceramic products
     ibiden uk ltd.                                   london, uk                                sales of ceramic products
     ibiden philippines, inc.                         batangas, philippines                     manufacture of ic package
                                                                                                manufacture of printed wiring
     ibiden electronics (beijing) co., ltd.           beijing, p.r.c.
                                                                                                boards
     ibiden electronics (shanghai) co., ltd.          shanghai, p.r.c.                          sales of printed wiring boards
     ibiden electronics technology (shanghai) co., ltd. shanghai, p.r.c.                        design of printed wiring boards
                                                                                                sales of electronics substrates
     ibiden korea co., ltd.                           seoul, korea
                                                                                                and graphite products
     ibiden taiwan co., ltd.                          kaohsiung, taiwan                         sales of electronics substrates
     ibiden singapore pte. ltd.                       singapore                                 sales of electronics substrates
     ibiden electronics malaysia sdn. bhd.            penang, malaysia                          manufacture of ic package
     ibiden (malaysia) sdn. bhd.                      penang, malaysia                          manufacture of electronics substrates

    the company had 39 consolidated subsidiaries including the above companies as of september 2011.




                                                                           corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 44




53889312309.indd   44                                                                                                                2011/11/16   15:39:14

      board of directors/organization
                                                         board of directors                                           audit division
      board of directors
                                                      board of corporate auditors                                 csr promotion division
    representative director      yoshifumi iwata                                      strategic corporate                                             office of the president
                                                                                      planning operation
    representative director      hiroki takenaka                                                                                                           finance division

                                                                                                                                                  intellectual property & legal affairs division

    representative director      mafumi kunishima                                                                                                 information system division

                                                                                                                                                  overseas enterprises division
    director                     hironobu kodaka                                                                                                  domestic enterprises division


    director                     yoshio hirabayashi
                                                                                                                                                  the 100th anniversary promotion office

                                                                                    general affairs & human                                         human resource division
                                                                                     resource operation
    director                     katsumi mabuchi                                                                                                      general affairs division

                                                                                    strategic manufacturing
    director                     toshiaki matsuo                                           operation
                                                                                                                                                      ipm promotion division

                                                                                                                                                  quality management division

    director                     keiichi sakashita                                                                                                manufacturing management division

                                                                                                                                                  manufacturing planning division
    director                     koji kawashima                                                                                                          purchasing division


    director                     sotaro ito
                                                                                                                                                  trading & logistics division
                                                                                    energy & environment
                                                                                                                                                  environment & safety division
                                                                                         operation
    director (outsider)          yoshitoshi toyoda                                                                                                environment technology division

                                                                                                                                                     energy control division
    director (outsider)          toshio yonezawa                                                                                                               ogaki plant

                                                                                                                                                         ogaki central plant

                                                                                                                                                            aoyanagi plant

      auditors                                                                                                                                                 gama plant

                                                                                                                                                            ogaki-kita plant

    standing auditor             yutaka kawase                                                                                                                 godo plant

                                                                                                                                                              kinuura plant
    standing auditor             koji hosoda
                                                                                       r&d operation                                               pkg development division

    auditor (outsider)           tadao kuribayashi                                                                                                electronic development division

                                                                                                                                                  ceramic development division
    auditor (outsider)           yasuhiro kumagai                                                                                                 new product development division

                                                                                                                                                  process development division
                                                                                    production engineering
                                                                                                                                                      facility design division
                                                                                         operation
     executive officers                                                                                                                           production engineering division

                                                                                                                                                  facility development division

    chairman of the board        yoshifumi iwata                                     package operation                                                 unit planning division

    president & ceo              hiroki takenaka                                                               business administration division

                                                                                                               quality assurance division

    executive vice president     mafumi kunishima                                                                          unit 1
                                                                                                                     engineering unit
    executive vice president     hironobu kodaka                                                                           unit 2
                                                                                                                           unit 3
    executive managing officer   yoshio hirabayashi
                                                                                                                  new facility project

    executive managing officer   katsumi mabuchi                                        csp operation                                             business administration division

                                                                                                                                                       development division
    senior managing officer      toshiaki matsuo                                                                                                      manufacturing division

    senior managing officer      keiichi sakashita                                                                                                      engineering division

                                                                                       pwb operation           business management division                planning division
    senior managing officer      takayuki takagi                                                                                                  business administration division

                                                                                                                                                        engineering division
    senior managing officer      shigeyasu kurita
                                                                                                                                                   quality assurance division

    managing officer             koji kawashima                                                                                                   production management division

                                                                                                                           unit 1
    managing officer             sotaro ito                                                                                unit 2
                                                                                                                           unit 3
    managing officer             katsumi sagisaka                                                                          unit 4

    managing officer             yoshiyuki iwata                                       dpf operation                                              heavy duty & dpf sales & marketing division

                                                                                                               business management division        sales & marketing division
    managing officer             takeshi aoki                                                                                                               design division


    managing officer             yoichi kuwayama
                                                                                                                                                  production engineering division

                                                                                                                                                   quality assurance division

    managing officer             masahiko ikuta                                                               production management division          manufacturing division

                                                                                                               european enterprise division
    managing officer             tsuyoshi nishida
                                                                                        afp operation                                                  unit planning division

                                                                                                                                                      manufacturing division

                                                                                       fgm operation                                               business planning division

                                                                                                                                                   sales & marketing division

                                                                                                                                                      manufacturing division

                                                                                                                      tokyo branch
                        （as of june 22, 2011）                                                                         osaka branch

                                                                                              corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 45




53889312309.indd   45                                                                                                                                                               2011/11/16     15:39:14

    gri index table

    the comparative table below refers to the locations of our report that related to required disclosure catego-
                                              s (gri) sustainability reporting guidelines (g3).
    ries under the global reporting initiative’
                                                                                       corprate social responsibility report 2011
                                       gri indicator
                                                                                         pages          corresponding topics
     1. strategy and analysis
                                                                                           p2        top message
            statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization                         consolidated medium-term
        1.1 (e.g., ceo, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance                    management plan
            ofsustainability to the organization and its strategy.                        p4-5       ibiden group charter of
                                                                                                     behavior
        1.2 description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities.

     2. organizational profile
       2.1 name of the organization.                                                      p43        corporate information
       2.2 primary brands, products, and/or services.                                     p43        corporate information
           operational structure of the organization, including main divisions,
       2.3                                                                               p43-45      corporate information
           operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures.
       2.4 location of organization’s headquarters.                                       p43        corporate information
           number of countries where the organization operates, and names
       2.5 of countries with either major operations or that are specifically             p44        corporate information
           relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report.
                                                                                                     basic approach to corporate
                                                                                           p7
        2.6 nature of ownership and legal form.                                                      governance
                                                                                          p44        corporate information
               markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served,
        2.7                                                                               p44        corporate information
               and types of customers/beneficiaries).
               scale of the reporting organization, including:
               ・number of employees;
               ・net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for
        2.8      public sector organizations);                                            p44        corporate information
               ・total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for
                 private sector organizations); and
               ・quantity of products or services provided.
               significant changes during the reporting period regarding size,
               structure, or ownership including:
               ・t he location of, or changes in operations, including facility
        2.9      openings, closings, and expansions; and
               ・changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation,
                 maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector
                 organizations).
      2.10     awards received in the reporting period.                                    p6        external corporate evaluation

     3. report parameters
     report profile
       3.1 reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided.      p3           editorial policy
       3.2 date of most recent previous report (if any).                                p3           editorial policy
       3.3 reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.)                                     p3           editorial policy
       3.4 contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents.        cover page       contact point
     report scope and boundary
           process for defining report content, including:
           ・determining materiality;                                                   p3           editorial policy
       3.5 ・prioritizing topics within the report; and                                              csr policy and scope of
                                                                                        p5
           ・identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the                            activity
             report.
           boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased
       3.6                                                                              p3           editorial policy
           facilities, joint ventures, suppliers).
           state any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the
       3.7                                                                             p3            editorial policy
           report.
           basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities,
       3.8 outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect                   na
           comparability from period to period and/or between organizations.
           data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations,
           including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations
       3.9                                                                             p3            editorial policy
           applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in
           the report.
           explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information
           provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement
      3.10                                                                             p3            editorial policy
           (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of
           business, measurement methods).
           significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope,
      3.11                                                                             p3            editorial policy
           boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report.

                                                                        corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 46




53889312309.indd   46                                                                                                            2011/11/16   15:39:15

                                                                                          corprate social responsibility report 2011
                                       gri indicator
                                                                                            pages          corresponding topics
     gri content index
      3.12 table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in the report.        p46-52      gri index table
     assurance
           policy and current practice with regard to seeking external
           assurance for the report. if not included in the assurance report
      3.13 accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis                          na
           of any external assurance provided. also explain the relationship
           between the reporting organization and the assurance provider (s).

     4. governance, commitments, and engagement
     governance
           governance structure of the organization, including committees
       4.1 under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks,
           such as setting strategy or organizational oversight.                             p7-9       corporate governance
            indicate whether the chair of the highest governance body is also
                                                                                    s
        4.2 an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization’
            management and the reasons for this arrangement).                                 p45       board of directors/organization
           for organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the                             summary of the existing
       4.3 number of members of the highest governance body that are                          p8        corporate governance
           independent and/or non-executive members.                                                    systems
           mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide                                         diagram of corporate
       4.4                                                                                    p9
           recommendations or direction to the highest governance body.                                 governance system
           linkage between compensation for members of the highest
           governance body, senior managers, and executives (including                                  compensation of directors
       4.5                                                                                    p9
           departure arrangements), and the organization’        s performance                          and corporate auditors
           (including social and environmental performance).
           processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure
       4.6
           conflicts of interest are avoided.
           process for determining the qualifications and expertise of                       p7-9       corporate governance
       4.7 the members of the highest governance body for guiding the
           organization’ s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics.
           internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of
           conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and
           social performance and the status of their implementation.                         p4        corporate philosophy
       4.8 explain the degree to which these:                                                           ibiden group charter of
                                                                                              p5
           ・a re applied across the organization in different regions and                              behavior
              department/units; and
           ・relate to internationally agreed standards.
           procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the
           organization’    s identification and management of economic,
       4.9 environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and
           opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally                              corporate governance
           agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles.                                p9        related to other csr
                                                                                                        promotions
           processes for evaluating the highest governance body’           s own
      4.10 performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental,
           and social performance.
     commitments to external initiatives
           explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or
      4.11                                                                                   p7-9       corporate governance
           principle is addressed by the organization.
           externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters,
                                                                                                        assessment by third-party
      4.12 principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes              p6
                                                                                                        organizations and our actions
           or endorses.
           memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/
           or national/international advocacy organizations in which the
           organization:
      4.13 ・has positions in governance bodies;                                                        na
           ・participates in projects or committees;
           ・provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or
           ・views membership as strategic.
     stakeholder engagement
      4.14 list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization.                            p5        csr policy and scope of activity
                                                                                                        dialogue and cooperation
       4.15 basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage.       p6
                                                                                                        with stakeholders
               approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of                             assessment by third-party
       4.16                                                                                   p6
               engagement by type and by stakeholder group.                                             organizations and our actions
                                                                                                        dialogue and cooperation
                                                                                              p6        with stakeholders
            key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder
                                                                                                        assessment by third-party
       4.17 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key
                                                                                                        organizations and our actions
            topics and concerns, including through its reporting.
                                                                                            p41-42      corporate responsibility goal
                                                                                                        summary

                                                                           corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 47




53889312309.indd   47                                                                                                               2011/11/16   15:39:15

                                                                                   corprate social responsibility report 2011
                                    gri indicator
                                                                                     pages          corresponding topics
     5. management approach and performance indicators
     economic performance indicators
           disclosure on management approach                                                      consolidated medium-term
                                                                                        p4
           ・goals and performance                                                                management plan
           ・policy                                                                  p41-42       corporate responsibility
           ・additional contextual information                                                    goal summary
     aspect: economic performance
           direct economic value generated and distributed, including
           revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and
      ec1                                                                              p44        corporate information
           other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to
           capital providers and governments.
           financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the
      ec2
           organization’s activities due to climate change.
      ec3 coverage of the organization’    s defined benefit plan obligations.
      ec4 significant financial assistance received from government.
     aspect: market presence
           range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local
      ec5
           minimum wage at significant locations of operation.
           policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based                         csr management in the
      ec6                                                                              p11
           suppliers at significant locations of operation.                                       supply chain
           procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management                        development of global
      ec7                                                                              p14
           hired from the local community at locations of significant operation.                  human resources
     aspect: indirect economic impacts
           development and impact of infrastructure investments and services
      ec8 provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or       p35-39       social contribution
           pro bono engagement.
           understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts,
      ec9                                                                            p28-29       environmental accounting
           including the extent of impacts.


     environmental performance indicators
           disclosure on management approach
           ・goals and performance
           ・policy                                                                  p20-21       environmental management
           ・organizational responsibility                                                        corporate responsibility
                                                                                     p41-42
           ・training and awareness                                                               goal summary
           ・monitoring and follow-up
           ・additional contextual information
     aspect: materials
                                                                                                  the ibiden group's material
       en1 materials used by weight or volume.                                         p30
                                                                                                  balance (input and output)
                                                                                                  the ibiden group's material
       en2 percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials.             p30
                                                                                                  balance (input and output)
     aspect: energy
                                                                                                  the ibiden group's material
       en3 direct energy consumption by primary energy source.                         p30
                                                                                                  balance (input and output)
                                                                                                  the ibiden group's material
       en4 indirect energy consumption by primary source.                              p30
                                                                                                  balance (input and output)
                                                                                                  coping with climate change
       en5 energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements.             p22-23
                                                                                                  issues
                                                                                                  coping with climate change
           initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based         p22-23
                                                                                                  issues
       en6 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a
                                                                                                  environmental contribution
           result of these initiatives.                                                p27
                                                                                                  through products
           initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions                       coping with climate change
       en7                                                                           p22-23
           achieved.                                                                              issues
     aspect: water
      en8 total water withdrawal by source.                                            p24        resource circulation
      en9 water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water.                 p24        resource circulation
     en10 percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused.




                                                                     corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 48




53889312309.indd   48                                                                                                         2011/11/16   15:39:15

                                                                                      corprate social responsibility report 2011
                                     gri indicator
                                                                                        pages          corresponding topics
     aspect: biodiversity
           location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent
                                                                                                    understanding the influence
     en11 to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside                p26
                                                                                                    on biodiversity
           protected areas.
           description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services
     en12 on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity
           value outside protected areas.
                                                                                                    understanding the influence
     en13 habitats protected or restored.                                                p26
                                                                                                    on biodiversity
               strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing                           understanding the influence
     en14                                                                                 p26
               impacts on biodiversity.                                                             on biodiversity
           number of iucn red list species and national conservation list
     en15 species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of
           extinction risk.
     aspect: emissions, effluents, and waste
                                                                                                    the ibiden group’s material
     en16 total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight.                   p30
                                                                                                    balance (input and output)
                                                                                                    the ibiden group’s material
     en17 other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight                     p30
                                                                                                    balance (input and output)
                                                                                                    coping with climate change
                                                                                        p22-23
               initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions                        issues
     en18
               achieved.                                                                            the ibiden group’s material
                                                                                         p30
                                                                                                    balance (input and output)
     en19 emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight.
                                                                                                    the ibiden group’s material
     en20 no, so, and other significant air emissions by type and weight.                 p30
                                                                                                    balance (input and output)
                                                                                                    the ibiden group’s material
     en21 total water discharge by quality and destination.                              p30
                                                                                                    balance (input and output)
                                                                                                    the ibiden group’s material
     en22 total weight of waste by type and disposal method.                             p30
                                                                                                    balance (input and output)
                                                                                                    environmental data for
                                                                                                    individual plants and group
     en23 total number and volume of significant spills.                                p31-34
                                                                                                    companies - compliance
                                                                                                    management
          weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste
          deemed hazardous under the terms of the basel convention                                  appropriate chemical
     en24                                                                                 p25
          annex i, ii, iii, and viii, and percentage of transported waste                           control
          shipped internationally.
           identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water
     en25 bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting
           organization’s discharges of water and runoff.
     aspect: products and services
           initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and                            environmental contribution
     en26                                                                                 p27
           services, and extent of impact mitigation.                                               through products
           percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are
     en27
           reclaimed by category.
     aspect : compliance
                                                                                                    e n v i r o n m e n t a n d
          monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-
                                                                                                    occupational health and
     en28 monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and               p21
                                                                                                    safety-related laws and
          regulations.
                                                                                                    regulations
     aspect : transport
           significant environmental impacts of transporting products and
                                                                                                    the ibiden group's material
     en29 other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations,              p30
                                                                                                    balance (input and output)
           and transporting members of the workforce.
     aspect : overall
           total environmental protection expenditures and investments by
     en30                                                                               p28-29      environmental accounting
           type.




                                                                       corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 49




53889312309.indd   49                                                                                                           2011/11/16   15:39:15

                                                                                 corprate social responsibility report 2011
                                   gri indicator
                                                                                   pages          corresponding topics
     social performance indicators
     labor practices and decent work
            disclosure on management approach
            ・goals and performance
                                                                                                h u m a n r e s o u r c e
            ・policy                                                               p14-19
                                                                                                management
            ・organizational responsibility
                                                                                                corporate responsibility
            ・training and awareness                                               p41-42
                                                                                                goal summary
            ・monitoring and follow-up
            ・additional contextual information
     aspect: employment
            total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and
      la1                                                                            p17        constitution of employees
            region.
            total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender,
      la2                                                                            p17        constitution of employees
            and region.
            benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to
      la3
            temporary or part-time employees, by major operations.
     aspect: labor/management relations
                                                                                                labor and management
               percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining
       la4                                                                           p17        cooperation to create a
               agreements.
                                                                                                worker-friendly workplace
           minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including
       la5
           whether it is specified in collective agreements.
     aspect: occupational health and safety
           percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint                            organization chart of
      la6 management-worker health and safety committees that help                   p18        occupational health and
           monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs.                       safety management
           rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism,
      la7                                                                            p19        measures for safety
           and number of workrelated fatalities by region.
           education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control
                                                                                                measures for safety
      la8 programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or          p19
                                                                                                managing employee health
           community members regarding serious diseases.
           health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade                     occupational health and
      la9                                                                            p18
           unions.                                                                              safety policy
     aspect: training and education
           average hours of training per year per employee by employee
     la10
           category.
           programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support
                                                                                                employment and development
     la11 the continued employability of employees and assist them in                p14
                                                                                                of human resources
           managing career endings.
           percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career                     employment and development
     la12                                                                            p14
           development reviews.                                                                 of human resources
     aspect: diversity and equal opportunity
           composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees
                                                                                                respecting diverse work
     la13 per category according to gender, age group, minority group              p15-16
                                                                                                styles
           membership, and other indicators of diversity.
     la14 ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category.

     human rights
           disclosure on management approach
           ・goals and performance
                                                                                   p12-13       compliance
           ・policy
                                                                                    p14         respect for human rights
           ・organizational responsibility
                                                                                                corporate responsibility
           ・training and awareness                                                p41-42
                                                                                                goal summary
           ・monitoring and follow-up
           ・additional contextual information
     aspect: investment and procurement practices
           percentage and total number of significant investment agreements
      hr1 that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human
           rights screening.
           percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have                        csr management in the
      hr2                                                                            p11
           undergone screening on human rights and actions taken.                               supply chain
           total hours of employee training on policies and procedures
                                                                                                bolstering compliance
      hr3 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations,        p13
                                                                                                activities
           including the percentage of employees trained.




                                                                   corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 50




53889312309.indd   50                                                                                                       2011/11/16   15:39:15

                                                                                       corprate social responsibility report 2011
                                     gri indicator
                                                                                         pages          corresponding topics
     aspect: non-discrimination
                                                                                                     bolstering compliance
       hr4 total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken.                  p13
                                                                                                     activities
     aspect: freedom of ass ociation and collective bargaining
           operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of                p14        respect for human rights
       hr5 association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and                     csr management in the
           actions taken to support these rights.                                         p11
                                                                                                     supply chain
     aspect: child labor
           operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child        p14        respect for human rights
       hr6 labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child                       csr management in the
           labor.                                                                         p11
                                                                                                     supply chain
     aspect: forced and compulsory labor
           operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced       p14        respect for human rights
       hr7 or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination                        csr management in the
           of forced or compulsory labor.                                                 p11
                                                                                                     supply chain
     aspect: security practices
           percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s                            bolstering compliance
                                                                                          p13
      hr8 policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are                         activities
           relevant to operations.                                                        p14        respect for human rights
     aspect: indigenous rights
           total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous
      hr9                                                                                            na
           people and actions taken.

     society
            disclosure on management approach
            ・goals and performance                                                                  risk management/
                                                                                         p10-13
            ・policy                                                                                 compliance
            ・organizational responsibility                                              p35-39      social contribution
            ・training and awareness                                                                 corporate responsibility
                                                                                         p41-42
            ・monitoring and follow-up                                                               goal summary
            ・additional contextual information
     aspect: community
            nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices
      so1 that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities,               p15-16      social contribution
            including entering, operating, and exiting.
     aspect: corruption
            percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks
      so2                                                                                p10-12      risk management
            related to corruption.
            percentage of employees trained in organization’     s anti-corruption
      so3                                                                                p12-13      compliance
            policies and procedures.
      so4 actions taken in response to incidents of corruption.                          p12-13      compliance
     aspect : public policy
            public policy positions and participation in public policy
      so5
            development and lobbying.
            total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties,
      so6
            politicians, and related institutions by country.
     aspect: anti-competitive behavior
           total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-
       so7                                                                               p12-13      compliance
           trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes.
     aspect: compliance
           monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-
      so8                                                                                p12-13      compliance
           monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations.




                                                                        corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 51




53889312309.indd   51                                                                                                            2011/11/16   15:39:16

                                                                                  corprate social responsibility report 2011
                                   gri indicator
                                                                                    pages          corresponding topics
     product responsibility
           disclosure on management approach
           ・goals and performance
                                                                                                 social responsibility for
           ・policy                                                                   p40
                                                                                                 products
           ・organizational responsibility
                                                                                                 corporate responsibility
           ・training and awareness                                                 p41-42
                                                                                                 goal summary
           ・monitoring and follow-up
           ・additional contextual information
     aspect: customer health and safety
           life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and
      pr1 services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant
           products and services categories subject to such procedures.
                                                                                    p12-13       compliance
            total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and                     e n v i r o n m e n t a n d
        pr2 voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products                     occupational health and
                                                                                      p21
            and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes.                           safety-related laws and
                                                                                                 regulations
     aspect : product and service labeling
           type of product and service information required by procedures,
      pr3 and percentage of significant products and services subject to such
           information requirements.
           total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and
      pr4 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and
           labeling, by type of outcomes.
           practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of                      social responsibility for
      pr5                                                                             p40
           surveys measuring customer satisfaction.                                              products
     aspect : marketing communications
           programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes
      pr6 related to marketing communications, including advertising,
           promotion, and sponsorship.
           total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and
      pr7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including
           advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes.
     aspect : customer privacy
           total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of
      pr8                                                                           p12-13       compliance
           customer privacy and losses of customer data.
     aspect: compliance
           monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws
      pr9 and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and          p12-13       compliance
           services.




                                                                    corporate social responsibility report2011, ibiden co., ltd. 52




53889312309.indd   52                                                                                                        2011/11/16   15:39:16

                                                     www.ibiden.com
                                                          contact point

                                                      csr promotion division
                                                      tel. +81 584 81-3147
                                                      fax. +81 584 81-2395




      please use the survey from always available on our web site to tell us what you think.




53889312309.indd   53                                                                          2011/11/16   15:39:16
