diversity & inclusion
+ sustainability
@ interpublic


    contents

    diversity & inclusion
3   diversity & inclusion @ ipg


13 diversity & inclusion @ our agencies




    sustainability
27 sustainability @ ipg


33 sustainability @ our agencies


diversity &
inclusion

 4


overview

interpublic has          research consistently shows that diverse teams are more creative and
                         productive and that companies that embrace diversity outperform their
made increasing          peers. we also know that diversity is transforming consumers. therfore, for
diversity within our     us to compete effectively, our workforce has to reflect the world’s changing
                         demographics and more important, the changing dynamics of the
organization and         marketplace.
forging a culture
of inclusion a top       our goal is to be one of the world’s most diverse and inclusive companies.
                         our approach addresses the issue in a systematic and structured manner.
strategic priority.      we believe this is the only way to achieve the lasting culture change that we
                         seek across our organization and drive long-term, sustainable results.

we take this
commitment seriously     our progress
and are implementing     over the last five years, we have built out our diversity & inclusion
                         department, which works across the organization to develop and manage
a broad range of         programs that focus on the recruitment, retention and development of
systemic programs to     employees, both at corporate and at our business units.

achieve this important
                         like any company that’s embarked on this journey, we know there is still
goal.                    work to be done, but we’re already seeing real results from our efforts.
                         embracing diversity makes us a better partner to our clients, a more
                         attractive employer, and contributes to the value we create for shareholders.




our goal is to be one
of the world’s most
diverse and inclusive
companies.

                                                                   5


first in our industry to…

                             hire a director of diversity
“everyone has something
to contribute and
everyone needs the           establish a ceo diversity council
chance to achieve their
aspirations — that
can only happen in an        hire a full-time supplier diversity
inclusive culture. we are    director
committed to diversity
and inclusion because
it’s the right thing to do   tie ceo compensation at holding
for our business and as a    company and major agencies to
moral obligation. i’d like   diversity metrics
to see us set the standard
and make a difference for
the industry as well.”

michael i. roth
chairman and ceo,
interpublic

 6


our programs

                          ipg network diversity council
                          this committee is composed of ceos from interpublic business units and
“30% of ipg’s board of    chaired by ipg’s chairman and ceo. the council meets three times annually
                          to report on company-wide and agency-specific diversity and inclusion
directors is comprised    programs. it reviews metrics to determine the effectiveness of these
of women. that’s          programs and serves as a forum where leaders can share best practices and
double the average for    prioritize the resources required for further progress. the group reports to
                          our board of directors, whose assessment of each agency’s results is factored
fortune 500 companies.    into senior level executives’ compensation.


fortune 500 companies     a more inclusive board of directors
                          in 2007, jocelyn carter-miller joined our board. ms. carter-miller is president
with the highest          of techedventures, a community empowerment firm that educates children,
representation of         families and the community through charter schools and community-based
women…on average,         programs. also in 2007, mary j. steele guilfoile joined our board and agreed
                          to serve on its audit committee.
financially outperform
companies with the        the interact associates fellowship program
lowest representation.”   launched in 2004, this two-year fellowship program seeks to recruit,
                          retain and develop an internal pipeline of multicultural talent with
                          multi-disciplinary experience.
ilene h. lang             now in its fourth year, the program is going stronger than ever – we’ve seen
catalyst                  more than 35 recent graduates move through its ranks, with most all of
                          these individuals hired by interpublic agencies at which they’ve worked.


                          ceo compensation
                          we have tied our diversity goals directly to the compensation of our senior
                          leadership. a portion of our major agencies’ ceo performance objectives
                          is tied directly to diversity. if these diversity goals are not met, that ceo’s
                          incentive pay is adversely affected. this policy also applies to ipg’s senior
                          executive team.

                                                                                                                    7


partnerships

interpublic                                   • american advertising federation (aaf) most promising minority
                                                students program and career fair
partners with many                            • american association of advertising agencies (4as) minority advertising
community-based and                             internship program, torch and lead, a program introducing minority
                                                high school students to key areas of our business
national organizations
                                              • national minority supplier development council
that focus on diversity                       • nynj minority supplier council
and inclusion.                                • national hispanic chamber of commerce
                                              • howard university – john h. johnson school of communications
                                              • ny urban league
                                              • catalyst – addresses issues of women in the workplace and the nuanced
                                                issues related to advancing women of color
                                              • wbenc – women’s business enterprise national council
                                              • prep for prep – leadership program enabling urban minority students to
                                                attend private academies for middle/high school
                                              • aaf mosaic center
                                              • family works institute
                                              • center for work life policy/hidden brain drain task force
                                              • glaad (gay and lesbian alliance against defamation)




michael roth with howard university
adopt-a-team students and their ipg mentors

8


    business resource
    groups (brgs)
    to foster an inclusive work environment, as
    well as to increase networking and business
    opportunities, ipg employees have begun
    cross-agency business resource groups. since
    its inception, more than 3,500 ipg employees
    in the u.s. have attended merge events.
    asian heritage group (ahg)
    promotes the professional and personal development of asian employees.


    black employee network (ben)
    empowers employees of african descent with an environment that is
    welcoming, fair, rewarding and which enables them to contribute to their
    maximum potential.


    ipglbt
    ensures glbt employees, consumers and their allies have relevance within
    ipg, our operating companies, and the work we do for our clients.


    somos: hispanic/latino heritage group
    energizes and empowers latino employees by leveraging cultural
    connections and creativity to advance their careers and make vital
    contributions to our agencies.


    women’s leadership network (wln)
    promotes the advancement, retention and recruitment of women and helps
    position ipg agencies as employers of choice and as catalysts of change.

                                                                                                          9


honors

during the last several          2011
years, ipg and its               • first advertising company recognized by new york urban league as a
                                   champion of diversity.
management have                  • michael roth featured in profiles in diversity journal’s 2011 “leadership
received numerous                  in action” issue as one of its award recipients.
honors for our                   • michael roth honored with a ceo leadership award and heide gardner
                                   honored with a diversity officer leadership award by diversity best practices.
diversity and inclusion
                                 • heide gardner named a top diversity executive by black enterprise magazine.
efforts.
                                 2010
                                 • michael roth received corporate leader award from the american
                                   advertising federation at 2010 diversity achievement and mosaic
                                   awards.
                                 • ipg received the women presidents’ organization award (wpo) for
                                   increased spending with women-owned businesses in new york and new
                                   jersey.


                                 2009
                                 • american advertising federation (aaf) recognized heide gardner, ipg
                                   chief diversity & inclusion officer, in the 2009 aaf district two diversity
                                   achievement awards as industry career achiever.
michael roth presenting at the   • american advertising federation (aaf) 2008 diversity achievement
2011 merge inclusion awards
                                   award for interpublic.
                                 • marjorie hoey, interpublic vp and associate general counsel recognized as
                                   a 2009 “woman worth watching” by profiles in diversity journal.


                                 2008 and prior
                                 • heide gardner recognized by the network journal in 2008 as one of 25
                                   influential black women in business.
                                 • three interpublic executives honored in 2007 at the first-ever adcolor
                                   awards.

 10


results

ipg’s diversity        from 2005 to 2010, in the eeo category
initiatives have       of “officials and managers”, our workforce
established an         representation of minorities has risen
infrastructure and     by 57%, to over 15%, and our workforce
provide resources      representation of women has risen by
that support our       over 10%, to 51%. we believe these results
company’s successful   compare well with industry averages.
efforts to be more
inclusive.
                       in our professional (non-management)
                       ranks, our workforce representation of
                       minorities has risen by 28%, to over 24%,
                       while our representation of women has
                       remained fairly consistent at 56%.

                                                                            11


rate of change

                          the following chart represents the rate of
in 2010, we once          change at the “officials and managers” level.
again saw year-over-
year improvement for
women and people           combined officials and managers   change from
of color, at both the                                        2005 to 2010
manager and executive      women                             10.1%
levels. and despite an     total minorities                  57.0%
overall headcount
                           african american                  47.9%
reduction due to
                           hispanic american                 34.6%
continued caution as
                           asian american                    53.3%
a result of the broader
economic uncertainty,      american indian                   46.0%

our population of
people of color at all
management levels
increased by 11% last
year, and women
increased by over 40%.


diversity &
inclusion @
our agencies
select highlights from d&i programs at our agencies

14


      avrett free ginsberg
     • appointed its cfo to also serve in the role of chief diversity officer to
       help ensure that the agency’s diversity goals are met.
     • established a multicultural diversity council led by its ceo and
       comprised of mid-and senior-level employees across the agency.
     • all employees now required to complete the dialogue on diversity
       training, ipg’s proprietary diversity training module.
     • actively involved in minority recruitment programs, including the
       american advertising federation and the minority advertising intern
       program (maip) of the american association of advertising agencies (4as).

                                                                        15


 campbell ewald
• conducted proprietary research study, “how millennials are using social
  media to redefine diversity in america”.
• detroit public schools community outreach efforts in collaboration with
  college for creative studies (won ipg merge 2011 silver inclusion for
  community partnership award).
• targeted recruiting efforts, career fairs, job postings.
• holds bi-annual all-employee diversity training.
• interact – microsite on agency intranet promoting diversity awareness
  and events.
• regularly hosts merge events.
• regularly attend supplier diversity events including the michigan
  minority business development council and the aaf mosaic vendor fair
  in los angeles, ca.
• participates in the multicultural advertising intern program (maip)
  program.
• on-site all-employee presentations, including:
 ° “the brown bomber: the joe louis story,” by the charles h. wright
   museum of african american history
 ° latest proprietary research on the african american market presented
   by bet
 ° “black history: past and present,” by the charles h. wright museum of
   african american history
 ° “media/entertainment attitudes and behaviors of african americans,”
   by michelle james, essence communications
• won adcolor 2008 “rising star” award.

16


      campbell mithun
     • strong supporter of multicultural advertising intern program (maip),
       sponsored by the american association of advertising agencies (4as).
     • involved in the women’s foundation of minnesota for the past three
       years.
     • the entire agency took advantage of the online diversity/inclusion
       training, with follow-up session internally (85% attendance).
     • benchmarking results via employee survey.
     • attendance at various diversity recruiting seminars/gatherings.




      deutsch
     • launched d.i.c.e. (develop. innovate. connect. empower), an employee
       resource group led by 16 deutschers that serves to nurture and promote
       diverse cultures through creative programs, activities, mentorships, and
       partnerships.
     • have reinstituted gods (gays of deutsch) a group of deutschers united
       in support of the lgbt community, working in partnership with ipglbt
       and lol (live out loud).
     • partner with torch, together our resources can help, a not-for-profit
       youth development and career preparation organization dedicated to
       transforming the lives of underserved new york city public high school
       students. provide mentoring, resume review, interview skills.

                                                                        17


 draftfcb
• launched affinity-based business resource groups (brgs) with open
  enrollment in support of asian, black, hispanic, lgbt, veteran and
  women employees, with over 227 active participants.
• draftfcb ipglbt supported journalist/blogger dan savage’s “it gets
  better” campaign with a video featuring ceo and president laurence
  boschetto and employees from across the u.s. network.
• launched a new video series entitled d&insights, featuring agency
  leaders and rising stars sharing how d&i has impacted their lives and
  careers.
• hosted eight industry-leading supplier diversity fairs in new york,
  chicago and san francisco.
• increased diverse supplier spend from $38.9 million in 2008 to $95
  million in 2010, leading to recognition by aaf mosaic awards for
  supplier diversity.
• awarded the 2011 ipg merge diversity & inclusion awards for supplier
  diversity, inclusive marketing initiative of the year and multicultural
  agency/practice of the year.
• developed  strategic partnerships with leading graduate and
  undergraduate recruiting platforms including lead, wharton women,
  aaf mosaic and mpms, 4a’s maip, hampton university, howard
  university center for excellence in advertising, the lagrant foundation,
  the morehouse college marketing conclave, the one club, the
  brandcenter at vcu and the ghetto film school.
• partnered with high school programs including torch, ad future and
  the high school for innovation and media.
• received two 2010 adcolor awards, for  new york chief stategy
  officer, vita harris and chicago associate media director, ronnie
  dickerson.
• launched a global exchange program, which serves as a retention tool
  for high-potential employees and provides valuable cultural immersion.

18


      golinharris
     • golinharris has partnered with historically black universities, howard
       university and morehouse, on a variety of recruiting and internship
       initiatives.
     • participate in diversity career fairs held by the council of public relations
       firms, diversity in communications big 10, the unity (journalists of color)
       conference, the national black public relations society and the national
       association for multi-ethnicity in communications.
     • gh has an advertising contract with latpro, which provides unlimited job
       postings on its own job board and pushes postings out to diversityjobs.
       com and applicable job boards within the justjobs search engine
       network.
     • every summer gh chicago participates in the multicultural advertising
       intern program (maip), by hosting a maip intern. gh has sponsored the
       lagrant foundation (tlf) scholarship recognition reception and
       awards program for the last five years. tlf awards scholarships to ethnic
       minority students pursuing degrees in advertising, marketing and public
       relations.
     • in partnership with the lagrant foundation, gh will host three career
       development workshops in 2011 (dallas, los angeles and chicago).

                                                                     19


 gotham
• to meet its goal of achieving agency-wide communication concerning
  diversity, launched “gothamsity. “ this initiative is designed to create
  and maintain an inclusive culture by planning programs and activities
  for employees and industry professionals to help find creative insight,
  innovation and perspective through the exploration of different cultures.
• participates in the 4a’s maip, and aaf most promising minority student
  program.
• appointed a director of multicultural programming to oversee the
  implementation of all diversity and inclusion activities.
• expanded external partnerships with universities, internship
  organizations and industry trade groups to further awareness of careers
  in advertising to diverse communities.

20


      id media
     • developed “leadership lessons” program for the advertising women of
       new york (awny) as part of the group’s professional development series.
     • conduct agency introductions and tours for ipg’s interact multicultural
       fellows and howard university.  
     • participate in diversity recruiting events, including the american
       advertising federation (aaf) mosaic career fair; utilize online venues,
       such as the naacp’s job board and the monster diversity site; and 4a’s
       howard university center for advertising excellence program.
     • attended diversity & inclusion “train the trainer” professional
       development to instill management best practices staff-wide.
     • host ongoing employee events, such as “heritage potlucks,” to promote
       pride in multiculturalism.
     • sponsor agency-wide monthly educational programs, with a special
       focus on digital media to ensure comfort and competence for individuals
       from all age groups.
     • in 2010, 100 percent of employees promoted to the officer and manager
       levels were women; two-thirds of those promoted to this level were
       people of color.
     • have consistently achieved diversity levels at the agency exceeding
       two-thirds women and 40 percent people of color.
     • received ipg merge awards for excellence in employee partnership and
       agency ceo to watch in 2009 and inclusive career development (gold)
       and champion of inclusion (silver) in 2011.

                                                                           21


 iw group
• coordinated a marketing student tour with diverse student leaders from
  a variety of backgrounds interested in advertising and marketing who
  met with ipg company leaders.
• working on an asian american bloggers conference to bring together
  the asian blogger communities from around north america.




 the martin agency
• participates in diversity summits and recruiting functions including the
  aaf forum and mosaic awards, aaf most promising minority students
  program, and the vcu brandcenter diversity summit.
• partners with multicultural recruiting firms and runs minority mentoring
  programs.
• regularly participates in 4as multicultural advertising intern program (maip).
• created a high school program through the boys and girls clubs of metro
  richmond to introduce minority students to advertising as a career.
• virginia commonwealth university minority scholarship - endowed 1989.
• participant in howard university and ipg’s diversity project “center for
  excellence in advertising”.
• participates in next generation advertising boot camp and lateral movers
  class at the center for excellence in advertising (cea) at howard university.
• outbound speaking engagements and mentoring programs with
  schools and universities including lsu, hampton university, howard
  university, virginia state university, norfolk state university, university of
  illinois and others.
• two adcolor innovator award winners: lauren tucker & danny robinson.
• 2010 adcolor creative of the year award winner: danny robinson.

22


      mccann worldgroup
     • created the “diversity in advertising messaging” training program.
     • established mc2, a group for employees that promotes and celebrates
       diversity.
     • provides internships for nyc area public high school students and
       launched a college mentor program.
     • partners with aaf most promising minority student program and aaf
       mosaic council; created “ready-to-hire tracker” to track multiethnic
       candidate pipeline and address barriers to entry.
     • 50% of mccann erickson ny hires in 2010 were ethnically diverse.
     • partner with 4a’s multicultural advertising intern program (maip) and
       hires many permanently.
     • supports the arc of san francisco, which helps people with
       developmental disabilities find professional employment.




      mediabrands
     • hosted mediabrands diversity week — this multi-company, multi-office
       collaboration included media partners and guest speakers.
     • provides monthly training and events supporting diversity and inclusion.
     • requires online diversity and inclusion training for all domestic
       employees.
     • continuously builds relationships with historically black colleges and
       universities.
     • participates in diversity recruiting career fairs and websites to develop
       pipelines of diverse talent; uses high potential mentoring and coaching
       programs.

                                                                      23


 mullen
• support and promote women@mu//en, a program geared towards
  elevating the visibility, networking opportunities, and development
  potential for women employees at mullen.
• assumed leadership role for ipg women’s leadership network (wln) for
  the boston area and regularly host and sponsor wln events.
• launched employee-governed diversity outreach councils to attract
  and promote diversity within the local community and to broaden
  the talent pipeline. committee members regularly represent mullen at
  recruiting events, award shows and community events.
• host and mentor college students from the adclub diversity intern
  program.
• partner with groups like arts for humanity, junior achievement, point
  foundation (lgbt organization), and the city arts councils to give back
  to the community and foster relationships.
• targeted recruiting and outreach campaigns including the aaf most
  promising minority student event, howard university, winston-salem
  state university and uva diversity day recruiting event.
• delivery of agency-wide educational programs with a focus on working
  with people from different backgrounds and perspectives.

24


      octagon
     • regularly participates in diversity recruiting including mosaic career
       fair, vcu career fair office of multicultural affairs, deca job fair (an
       international student association with 51% diverse population) and
       howard university.
     • hosted several women’s networking events in norwalk and mclean to
       promote retention and advancement of women.
     • co-hosted “the importance of sports marketing in the multicultural and
       latino segment” meeting held in october 2010.
     • received two merge diversity & inclusion awards: gold for multicultural
       agency of the year and silver for inclusive marketing initiative of the year.




      orion trading
     • orion trading has a diverse team of employees around the world with
       61% female and 15% people of color. orion is a global company with
       capabilities in fourteen countries with a staff that speaks a total of ten
       different languages.
     • orion is a member of agencies in action, a member of futures &
       options and a member of the anti-defamation league.

                                                                       25


 r/ga
• ceo bob greenberg recognized as a diversity champion by howard
  university’s center for excellence in advertising.  this honor recognizes
  leadership in diversity and in helping the ad industry eliminate barriers
  and identify opportunities to achieve a more diverse and inclusive
  workforce at middle to senior management levels.
• created its own employee affinity group, r/gay.
• regularly attend diversity recruiting events and has hired graduates from
  howard university’s lateral movers program.
• teach digital advertising class for howard university’s lateral movers
  program.
• hosted “shesays,” speed mentoring session for women.
• participate in brooklyn urban assembly high school program which
  teaches new york city high school students to use design to change
  their communities.

26


      weber shandwick
     • partners with howard university and its team-teaching capstone
       communications lab, a student-run, faculty-advised communications
       management agency serving corporate, government, small for-profit
       and howard university clients.
     • partnered with the ron brown scholars program, which provides
       academic scholarships, service opportunities and leadership experiences
       for young african americans of outstanding promise.
     • weber’s senior executives are part of the “we teach science foundation”
       bringing k-12 math and science education to underserved bay area
       communities.
     • worked with the gill foundation on the business of change resource
       guide, focused on corporate non-profit collaboration to promote
       equality for the lgbt community.
     • many of weber shandwick’s offices have created localized business
       resource groups and newsletters focused on diversity, education, advocacy
       and community building. the agency also makes its representatives
       available for frequent speaking opportunities focused on diversity and
       inclusion, multicultural marketing, and women in communications.

                 27




sustainability

 28


sustainability @ ipg

in april of 2010,    policy created to establish best practices for
ipg established a    ipg and its employees to reduce our impact
standard policy      on the environment.
& procedure
(sp&p) relating to
                     focus on four core areas:
sustainability and
environmental
impact.




                           using energy               instituting
                          more efficiently        recycling programs




                          managing travel         employing green
                            efficiently           building practices

                                                                                                  29


reduce, reuse, recycle

at our corporate office   • going paperless – ipg distributes company information and posts
                            company material online, whenever possible.
and at our agencies,      • reducing duplicate magazine/newspaper subscriptions.
we have begun to          • using a water filtration system and encouraging employees to bring
implement practices         their own cups or reusable water bottles from home.
                          • supporting carpooling, biking and the use of public transportation
that support our            (providing bike storage in building, providing pre-tax mass transit
commitment to a             deduction).
greener workplace.        • encouraging telecommuting when possible. using windows
                            communicator on internal network to reduce travel between corporate
                            headquarters in nyc and back-office operations in omaha.
                          • recycling printer cartridges and implementing video and film tape
                            recycling programs.
                          • electronic equipment recycling.
                          • reducing storage of paper and digital records.
                          • implementing recycling collection locations.
                          • all stationery and business cards printed using forest stewardship
                            council (fsc) certified paper.

 30


information technology

in an effort to improve     • ipg migrated information technology infrastructure and applications
                              operations to the scott technology center at of the university of
it operational                nebraska at omaha. we moved our four global it operations centers
efficiencies as well as       together and implemented smaller, more efficient rack mounted and
                              blade servers which significantly reduce power consumption.
reduce consumption          • the move to scott helped substantially reduce ipg’s carbon footprint as
and costs, ipg provides       it relates to technology. ipg also installed a green cooling system at the
shared technology             technology center.
                            • the virtualization of some servers will further reduce our physical
environments for              server footprint. consolidation will also reduce international travel for it
both infrastructure           employees.

and applications.           • we have partnered with tech turn, a recognized industry leader, to
                              ensure maximum recycling of technology and electronic equipment.
shared infrastructure
environments include
virtual servers, storage,
database and web
services, as well as
hosting facilities for
both internal and
external applications.

                                                                                                     31


real estate

as a service company,    • sharing facilities helps reduce our carbon footprint and ipg policies
                           require all agencies to look within the portfolio for real estate solutions
people are one of our      before committing to leasing new office space. this drastically controls
most critical assets       waste by sharing facilities and sharing services rather than taking
                           additional office space and leaving existing space underutilized.
and real estate is       • we encourage agencies to employ “green designs” in their offices.
among our largest          this includes open space planning (80% workstations/20% offices
cost items. we have        and conference rooms) and efficient energy use planning (i.e. lighting,
                           hvac, etc.).
focused significant      • our real estate group has a square foot per person metric of 250 occupied
efforts on reducing        rentable square feet per employee (built at 225 rsf/ee). this number has
                           been reduced by nearly 50 square feet per employee since 2004.
our carbon footprint
                         • controlling capex costs is another important way to reduce our carbon
and environmental          footprint and one of the most effective ways is by re-deploying furniture
impact. here are some      within the portfolio. before any new furniture is purchased we look
                           within the network to see what can be re-utilized. this has resulted in
of the efforts we have     savings of $2.4 million since 2007.
undertaken in this
area…


r/ga’s new york office                                              the martin agency office in richmond, va

 32


suppliers

we actively assess         we source from a wide base of suppliers to
environmental              ensure economic advantage for our clients;
credentials of suppliers   however, where possible we support local
and encourage our          vendors to boost the local economy as well
suppliers to adopt         as to minimize the impact of transportation
environmentally-           on the environment.
friendly policies. we
also ask that our
suppliers reduce           staff discounts have been negotiated with
their carbon footprint     local businesses to benefit and encourage
and seek low carbon        employees to shop locally and support the
alternatives when          local economy.
providing products
and services.

sustainability @
our agencies
some examples of our agencies going green

 34


campbell ewald

campbell ewald ’s        • replaced boilers with high efficiency units and installed variable
                           frequency drives on air handler motors.
sustainability efforts   • replaced elevator controls and motors with high efficiency equipment.
include:                 • replaced incandescent lamps with compact fluorescent lamps and
                           halogen lamps with led lamps.
                         • modified fax and copier equipment to eliminate confirmation & activity
                           pages.
                         • installed a water filtration system for employees.
                         • have instituted ongoing recycling efforts for paper, plastic bottles, metal
                           cans and obsolete office equipment.

                                                                                                                        35


carmichael lynch

carmichael lynch                               the first major agency in the midwest to
is at the forefront of                         move to 100 percent wind-sourced power.
sustainability. its leed-                      additional sustainability programs at
qualified (leadership                          carmichael lynch include:
in energy and
environmental design)                            reducing
workplace is powered                            • partnering with the renewable choice energy credit program to
by 100-percent wind-                              purchase wind credits at 100 percent of electricity usage. this helps the
                                                  agency prevent nearly 1,351,225 pounds (613 metric tons) of carbon
sourced energy.                                   dioxide emissions from being released into the atmosphere.
                                                • supporting a “green team” and a green blog to keep employees up to
                                                  speed on environmental issues.
                                                • hand dryers installed in bathrooms to limit paper use and low-voc
                                                  (volatile organic compound) paints and sealers used.
                                                • encouraging low-impact commuting.
a repurposed door from the textile mill that
formerly existed on carmichael lynch’s site



                                                 reusing
                                                • many of the existing building components – including fire doors
                                                  from the textile mill that once existed on the site – were salvaged and
                                                  incorporated into conference room furniture.
                                                • using interface recyclable carpeting; overhead lighting is energy efficient
                                                  and natural light is used.
                                                • every office furnished with a 99 percent sustainable and 50 percent
                                                  recyclable chair.


                                                 recycling
                                                • has aggressive recycling and composting practices.

36


draftfcb
           • promotes recycling by giving all employees thermos bottles to
             encourage reuse.
           • purchased bike racks and initiated events including “bike to work week”
             and a walking competition for employees.
           • all new offices are given motion-sensitive lights and all light fixtures now
             use energy-efficient bulbs.
           • all agency printers are set for two-sided printing and copying.
           • utilize video conferencing to cut back on travel.
           •  broadcast production department works with vendors to make shoots
              more environmentally responsible. this includes recycling bins on
              set, reusing dvds, donating props and clothing after use, and using
              recyclable or biodegradable cups and utensils.
           •  encourage telecommuting where possible.
           •  recycling program for computers, toners and electronics.

                                                                                                        37


golinharris

in 2008 golinharris      “ghreen” includes:
launched a company
wide effort, “ghreen,”
                           reducing
to increase green         • gh resides in an energy star certified building that tracks monthly
commitment and              recycling. since the building began its sustainability program in 2008, gh
                            has received an energy star certification each year.
incorporate more
                          • using dishwashers once per day.
sustainability            • using cutlery made from corn starch instead of plastic.
efforts into daily        • supplying employees with gh water bottles to use instead of cups.
working lives. the        • low energy light bulbs.

agency appointed a        • using green cleaning products.

sustainability manager
and team to review         reusing
                          • disposing of electronic equipment responsibly by donating to not-for-
ongoing green issues.       profits.


                           recycling
                          • using recycled paper products in kitchens and 50% post-consumer
                            recycled paper for printers and copiers.
                          • recycle bins for all copy stations and in all kitchens for glass, plastic
                            and cans.

 38


hill holliday

hill holliday’s           reducing
sustainability efforts   • majority of the agency’s employees have pledged to “go green” and
                           received client coffee mugs to use instead of paper cups.
include:                 • employees can elect to receive paperless pay stubs.
                         • have a “shut it down” initiative to encourage energy conservation by
                           turning off computers while not in use.
                         • employees encouraged to print and photocopy documents double-
                           sided to conserve paper. wooden coffee stirrers used instead of plastic
                           straws.
                         • employees encouraged to use hybrid rental cars when traveling to client
                           meetings.


                          recycling
                         • started the “adopt-a-conference room” initiative where the “adoptive”
                           employees regularly check in to turn off conference room monitors and
                           computers and recycle waste.
                         • recycling bins on each floor. agency donates all redeemable containers
                           to the “cans for charity” campaign.

                                                                                              39


jack morton

jack morton’s            • london office is working on implementing policies that will result in
                           conformance with bs 8901, the british government’s sustainability
sustainability efforts     standard for the events industry which defines the requirements for a
include:                   sustainability event management system. bs 8901 works to ensure an
                           enduring and balanced approach to economic activity, environmental
                           responsibility and social progress relating to events.
                         • task force led by jack morton’s boston-based evp of client operations &
                           finance will apply aspects of these policies across jack morton’s global
                           network.
                         • jack morton produced client conference looking at ways to build a
                           smarter, more socially, economically and environmentally sustainable
                           future.

  40


the martin agency

the martin agency has                recycling
launched a branded                  • switching from traditional recycling requiring the separation of materials,
                                      to single stream recycling allowing more materials to be included. this
internal sustainability               increased recycling from roughly 740 lbs./month to 2000 lbs./week.
campaign “martin                    • equipping every work space with recycling containers that can also be
green,” to overhaul                   recycled if they become worn or damaged.
                                    • participate in technology recycling programs.
the company’s efforts
in environmental
responsibility.                      reducing
                                    • adopting the policy of supplying presentations to clients via jump drives
                                      and file transfers, unless the client requests printed documents.
                                    • purchased printers that allow for double-sided printing and set defaults
                                      on printing that are the least wasteful.
martin green’s logo
                                    • invested in a document management system to lessen paper usage.
                                    • installed filtered water coolers throughout the building.
                                    • most internal forms can now be filled out and submitted online via the
                                      agency network.
                                    • use cfl’s (reduced energy lightbulbs), water-based paint and green
                                      cleaning solutions.
                                    • after hours all unused lighting sources are turned off by staff or via
                                      lighting sensors.
a poster created for martin green
                                    • holds a seasonal farmer’s markets on-site with local organic farmers and
                                      florists.


                                     reusing
                                    • donating outdated furniture and equipment to local public school
                                      programs.

                                                                                                          41


mccann worldgroup

mccann has created      planet mccann developed a “green
planet mccann, an       manifesto” as well as a strategic platform for
internal sustainability change based on four core tenets:
consultancy. it is
based in london
                              replace             reduce             recycle            reeducate
and supports all
worldgroup units
in their handling of       programs are in full swing at the london office and are being rolled out
green and social issues    globally.

for themselves and
                           reducing
clients.                 • using mccann-branded filtered water and water filtration system.
                                    • installed more efficient printers that use double-sided printing.
                                    • have installed an eco font – which uses less ink than standard fonts – on
   eco fonts use less ink than        all computers and encourage its use.
         standard fonts
                                    • introduced environmentally friendly cleaning products.
                                    • changing its car service to contract with a company that uses hybrid
                                      vehicles.
                                    • turned down the temperature of hot water in restrooms.
                                    • turn off building lights earlier in the evening.
                                    • installed water saving devices in restrooms.
                                    • using energy saving pi (passive infrared sensor) lighting that goes on
                                      when it spots movement.


                                      recycling
                                    • placed branded recycling collection bins throughout the office.
                                    • use 100% recycled stationery and recycled coffee cups.

 42


weber shandwick

weber shandwick         in may of 2008, weber shandwick
has issued an           received the prestigious iso 14001 “green
environmental policy    certification,” becoming one of the first
statement codifying     multi-office pr agencies in the us to be
its commitment to       certified. the agency’s london office
sustainability and      became certified in 2007.
green practices.
                       • iso 14001 certification is an internationally recognized framework for
                         environmental management, measurement, evaluation and auditing.
                       • weber also has a leed (leadership in energy and environmental
                         design) professional on staff. leed is a green-building rating system that
                         measures the impact a particular building has on the environment.
                       • have formed employee green teams in offices around the world to
                         ensure green practices and iso compliance.

notes


                                           45



ipg efforts
      philippe krakowsky
      executive vice president,
      chief strategy and talent officer
      philippe.krakowsky@interpublic.com
adfsdbfgbfdbv

      212.704.1328

   heide gardner
   senior vice president,
   chief diversity and inclusion officer
   heide.gardner@interpublic.com
   212.704.1384

                                                 46



ipg efforts
adfsdbfgbfdbv




  printed on 30% post-consumer recycled paper.
