corporate social responsibility report
                              september 2005


corporate social responsibility report
                          september 2005   1




                             kbc group

    table of contents
2


    introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
    1 a word from our ceo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
    2 scope of this report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
    3 sustainability indices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7

    business focus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
    1 general . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
    2 kbc in belgium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9

    corporate governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
    1 general . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
    2 board of directors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
    3 executive committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
    4 committees within the board of directors . . . . . . . . . . 15
    5 risk management at kbc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
    6 csr at kbc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19

    business ethics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
    1 codes of conduct . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
    2 integrity and compliance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
    3 lending policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
    4 sri research and stakeholder dialogue . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

    our employees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
    1 employee satisfaction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
    2 stafﬁng levels and remuneration policy . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
      1 stafﬁng levels
      2 remuneration policy
    3 equal treatment and non-discrimination . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
      1 women employees
      2 non-discrimination
    4 social dialogue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
    5 talent development and knowledge management . . . . 32
    6 health and safety . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

                                                                                       3


environmental stewardship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
1 recent achievements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
2 environmental performance indicators . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41

kbc’s active role in the society at large . . . . . . . . . . . 47
1 sustainable products and services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
2 community involvement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
  1 aspiring to be a ‘good neighbour’. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
  2 social sponsorship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
  3 volunteerism at kbc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
  4 kbc and cultural events . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51

future ambitions in the csr ﬁeld . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

reporting guidelines and index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54

appendices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
i. general kbc information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
     a. groupwide ﬁnancial results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
     b. groupwide stafﬁng levels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
ii. principles for socially responsible business . . . . . . . . . . 59
iii. equator principles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
iv. sri funds managed by kbc asset management. . . . . . 63

    introduction
4

    1 a word from our ceo




    to our readers,

    in the less than seven years since kbc was founded, we have managed to become one of the
    most successful bancassurers in europe. our bancassurance concept, a success on our ﬁrst home
    market in belgium, has also gradually been transposed to our second home market in central and
    eastern europe, where we are currently already one of the largest ﬁnancial services group. central
    and eastern europe is proving to be an important engine of growth for our group, and we expect
    it to continue to help drive growth in the years ahead.

    now that we have joined the ranks of the euro-zone’s top ﬁnancial groups in terms of market
    capitalization, it behoves us to enhance our transparency on all matters beyond our ﬁnancial
    performance. a company, after all, is not just a compilation of facts and ﬁgures. besides our im-
    pressive ﬁnancial achievements, we feel we have other reasons to be proud of our group. kbc is
    a company with a rich history, a clear vision for the future and a set of values that are an integral
    part of our corporate culture. our employees are committed to the company, which has found
    the wherewithal to grow and ﬂourish from within, thanks to its faith in the capabilities of its own
    people. despite our international scale, we have always made a point of leaving the local roots
    intact to a large degree on our home markets, respecting the individuality of each entity within
    the overall value framework of the group.

    indeed, this is the ﬁrst time that kbc is reporting on its performance with respect to corporate
    social responsibility (csr). the initial focus is on our ﬁrst home market (belgium); later editions
    will extend coverage to our central and eastern european operations. sustainable and socially
    responsible business essentially entails planning and conducting one’s business not only with
    a view to making a proﬁt, but also with an eye to the economic, social, ecological and cultural
    impact of that business in both the short and the long term. in light of this, ethical behaviour and
    integrity are increasingly seen as key components of sound business practice. public opinion and
    ever stricter legislation and regulation are obliging companies to pursue policies that pay proper
    attention to the various non-ﬁnancial aspects of business. this is not to suggest that csr was not
    previously practiced in one form or another within kbc. in fact, over the years, kbc has played a
    pioneering role in many instances with respect to csr initiatives. our mission statement reﬂects
    our commitment to our stakeholders and our ‘principles for socially responsible business’ outlines
    our basic policy in this regard.1 our pursuit of a socially responsible business policy is additionally


    1 see appendix ii

                                                                                                       5

evidenced in our in-house guidelines and codes of conduct, in the many projects we sponsor and
the aid we provide through our group companies, and in our product offering.

however, the exponential growth in importance of csr during the last few years within the
ﬁnancial arena and the continued expansion of our organization beyond belgium’s borders has
meant that it is no longer sufﬁcient to subscribe to csr principles or guidelines without demon-
strating what we have achieved in practice. not only will this report enable us to adopt a more
pro-active dialogue with our various stakeholders, it will also help us to better identify our goals
for the future in light of the so-called triple bottom line or triple-p concept – ‘people, planet,
proﬁt’.




willy duron
president of the executive committee of kbc group




 kbc’s mission statement
 through our customer-friendliness, efﬁciency, enterprising spirit and capacity for innova-
 tion, we will provide the best solutions for our customers, earn the loyalty of our employees,
 guarantee a high return to our shareholders and contribute towards the economic, social and
 cultural development of the community to which we belong.

    2 scope of this report

    as this is the ﬁrst time that we are publishing an independent report on csr at kbc group, we
    are limiting the scope to kbc’s belgian entities (see tables below), unless explicitly mentioned
    otherwise. the report covers kbc’s csr commitments and accomplishments during the 2004
    ﬁnancial year – including, in some cases, the ﬁrst half of 2005 – on the basis of key performance
    indicators, in particular. in the coming years, we will be extending our reporting coverage to
    include our central and eastern european subsidiaries, which constitute a signiﬁcant part of kbc’s
    operations, both in terms of proﬁt contribution and as regards social capital, and to our other
    entities in the rest of europe and around the world.
6

    kbc in ﬁgures
     key ﬁgures (in m eur)                                         fy 20042                        1h 2005
     gross income                                                     12 333                          5 660
     proﬁt before tax                                                  2 345                          1 826
     net group proﬁt                                                   1 615                          1 253
     total assets                                                   285 1633                       305 5624
     other
     number of staff                                                                         approx. 50 000
     number of customers                                                                          11 million5




    kbc’s geographical breakdown6
                                               % of total assets   % of gross income    % of staff expenses
     belgium                                                58.1                54.8                    55.2
     cee                                                    11.2                24.5                    18.1
     rest of the world                                      30.7                20.7                    26.7
     total                                                100.0                100.0                  100.0



    breakdown of kbc’s worldwide operations (% of total gross income)


                    rest of the world
                           21%



                                                                                       belgium
                                                                                        54%
                                cee
                                25%



    2 pro forma ﬁgures (excl. ias 32/39 and ifrs 4).
    3 as at 31 december 2004.
    4 as at 30 june 2005.
    5 idem.
    6 1h 2005.

breakdown of gross income and staff expenses,
kbc group companies in belgium (in %)
                                                              gross income           staff expenses
                                                                      1h 2005              1h2005
 kbc bank/insurance/asset management/holding co.                             77                 79
 fidea                                                                        6                  1
 secura                                                                       3                  1
 centea                                                                       2                  3
 cbc banque                                                                   4                  6
 kbc lease                                                                    1                  2
                                                                                                         7
 gevaert                                                                      3                  2
 antwerp diamond bank                                                         1                  1
 kbc securities                                                               1                  2
 other companies in belgium                                                   1                  2
 total                                                                    100                  100




3 sustainability indices


ftse4good
           ftse group is delighted to conﬁrm that kbc has been independently assessed according
           to the ftse4good criteria, and has satisﬁed the requirements to become a constituent of
           the ftse4good index series. created by the independent ﬁnancial index company ftse
           group, ftse4good is a ﬁnancial index series that is designed to identify and facilitate in-
           vestment in companies that meet globally recognized corporate responsibility standards.
           companies in the ftse4good index series are doing more to manage their social, ethical
           and environmental impacts, and are better positioned to capitalize on the beneﬁts of
           responsible business practice. (cf. www.ftse.com/ftse4good/index.jse)



ethibel sustainability index - excellence
         kbc is proud to be a constituent of ethibel sustainability index - excellence. based in
         brussels, belgium, ethibel was established in 1992 and is a leading european screening
         company in the ﬁeld of socially responsible investing (sri).
         the ethibel sustainability index series combine a sound ﬁnancial return with a positive
         impact on society by selecting the world’s leading companies in terms of sustainability.
         the ethibel pioneer index was ﬁrst published on 27 june 2002. this index includes pio-
         neer companies with respect to sustainability across sectors and regions in europe, the
americas and asia paciﬁc. in january 2005, ethibel launched its second index – ethibel excellence
index - which comprises both pioneer and best-in-class companies across sectors and regions.
the distinctive characteristics of ethibel’s methodology are based on the integration of two of the
most signiﬁcant aspects of corporate social responsibility: sustainable development and stake-
holder involvement.
for more information on ethibel and the ethibel investment register, surf to www.ethibel.org.

    business focus
8

    1 general

    kbc group is a multi-channel bancassurer with a focus on belgium and central and eastern
    europe for retail bancassurance activities and services for smes and corporates (it also main-
    tains a limited presence in a number of other european countries and around the world), and
    on the whole of europe for private banking activities.7 as a top ﬁnancial group in belgium, kbc
    is a member of the major national business associations, including the belgian bankers’ and
    stockbroking firms’ association, the professional union of credit providers, assuralia (the belgian
    association of insurance brokers), the belgian association of stock exchange members, the
    belgian asset managers association and the belgian leasing association.

    kbc’s strategic objectives include:
    • increasing insurance sales in belgium by, inter alia, continuing to exploit the cross-selling poten-
      tial created through bancassurance;
    • increasing sales of bank, insurance and asset management products in the central and eastern
      european home market, where greater efﬁciency should be achieved through rationalization
      and cross-border co-operation;
    • continuing to manage costs effectively by rationalizing products and processes, organizing
      back-ofﬁce services jointly with other banks where possible, and promoting the use of elec-
      tronic channels, etc.;
    • maintaining the high level of proﬁtability of the business customer segment by focusing on fee
      income coupled with strict risk management and state-of-the-art product range;
    • maintaining the leading position in the investment fund market in belgium and central and
      eastern europe.

    kbc seeks to become an efﬁcient and productive bancassurer with a strong afﬁnity for its
    customers, while ensuring that its employees are looked after. it also strives to identify with the
    various communities it serves by such means as using local company names, employing local
    management and adhering to socially responsible business practices in keeping with the stand-
    ards of the relevant countries.

    moreover, it has elected to continue to pursue a standalone strategy. the group is ﬁrmly con-
    vinced that it can ﬁnance its own growth, pay a reasonable dividend and still maintain sufﬁcient
    reserves to carry out strategic acquisitions when the right opportunities arise.




    7 see appendix a

2 kbc in belgium

                                                                                                 9
at the end of 2004, kbc’s belgian retail network comprised 934 retail and corporate bank
branches and 594 insurance agencies, serving around 3.3 million bank and 1.4 million insurance
customers.
kbc also uses an banking sales network of 725 independent agencies, which complements the
sale of insurance products via specialized brokers.

10

corporate governance
                                                                                                                         11


      the belgian code on corporate governance for belgian listed companies
      (the ‘corporate governance code’) was promulgated in december 2004
      upon the initiative of the belgian banking, finance and insurance commission
      (bfic), the belgian federation of enterprises and euronext brussels and be-
      came effective on 1 january 2005. the merger of kbc and its parent com-
      pany, almanij, in early march 2005, ushered in changes to the governance
      structure at kbc and created an opportunity to adopt the principles of the
      corporate governance code.




kbc’s structure

                            free float
                                                                    core shareholders*
                             (47.3%)




                                                kbc group nv



                                                                                    kbl
                              kbc                   kbc asset
    kbc bank                                                                     european                      gevaert
                           insurance               management
                                                                              private bankers


*core shareholders include cera/almancora, mrbb (belgian farmers’ association) and other committed shareholders.

     1 general

     the management and supervision structure of kbc is based on a distinction between:
     • the management, a task conducted autonomously by the executive committee (within the
       meaning of article 524 bis of the belgian companies code), which acts within the framework
       of the general strategy deﬁned by the board of directors; and
     • the development of the general strategy, the supervision of management performed by the
       executive committee, the exercise of powers to appoint and remove members of the executive
       committee, and the exercise of speciﬁc powers attributed by the belgian companies code, the
       articles of association or the understanding with the belgian banking, finance and insurance
12     commission (bfic) on the internal governance principles of the kbc group as a whole, which
       responsibilities are the purview of the board of directors.

     this dual management and supervision structure is reﬂected in kbc group nv’s articles of
     association and in the internal governance understanding with the bfic.

     new belgian corporate governance code
     kbc has adopted the recommendations set out in the belgian corporate governance code,
     except where, in view of the nature of its activities, regulations applicable to such activities and
     speciﬁc circumstances require otherwise, in which case this is explained (the ‘comply or explain’
     principle). (cf. belgian corperate governance code at www.corperategovernancecommittee.
     be/en/corporate_governance_code/ﬁnal_code/default.aspx)

     in accordance with the corporate governance code, kbc group nv will describe the principal
     aspects of its corporate governance, such as its governance structure, the charter of the board
     of directors and its committees and other important topics (e.g., remuneration policy) in a
     corporate governance charter that will be posted on kbc group nv’s web site at the latest by
     the end of 2005 and that will be updated regularly. kbc group nv will also include a ‘corporate
     governance’ section in its annual report for the 2005 ﬁnancial year that will provide more factual
     information relating to corporate governance, including changes in the company’s corporate gov-
     ernance and relevant events that took place during the year under review, such as the appoint-
     ment of new directors or committee members, the annual remuneration received by members
     of the board of directors and explanations, where necessary, regarding non-compliance with the
     corporate governance code.

     the key principles of corporate governance applied by kbc group nv that are reﬂected in the
     respective charters of the board of directors, the various specialized board committees and the
     executive committee are summarized below.



     2 board of directors

     the company is directed by a board of directors of at least twelve and not more than twenty-
     seven members – who may or may not be shareholders – appointed by the general meeting
     of shareholders. the composition of the board of directors reﬂects the different stakeholders
     of kbc group. the board is therefore composed of representatives of the core shareholders,
     independent directors and directors who are members of the executive committee (managing
     directors).

the directors can be appointed for a renewable term of a maximum of six years, but as a rule,
are appointed for a renewable term of four years. any proposal for the appointment of a direc-
tor by the general meeting of shareholders will be accompanied by a recommendation from the
board of directors, based on the advice of the appointments committee. the appointments
committee also advises the board of directors in case a directorship falls vacant and the remain-
ing directors provisionally arrange for replacement.

the chairman and the deputy chairman of the board of directors are elected by the board of
directors from among its members. the chairman of the board of directors is elected and re-
moved upon the prior concurrent advice of the bfic and may not be a member of the executive
committee.                                                                                                 13

the board of directors may perform all acts necessary or useful for achieving the company’s
corporate purpose, with the exception of those acts that by or pursuant to law, the articles of
association, or the internal governance understanding with the bfic are explicitly reserved for
another corporate body.

management supervision
besides carrying out the activities required under the belgian companies code (such as prepar-
ing the consolidated and non-consolidated annual ﬁnancial statements and the annual reports,
setting the agenda for general meetings of shareholders and proposing how proﬁt should be
appropriated), the board of directors monitors the monthly performance of the direct subsidiaries
and their respective subsidiaries and reviews the quarterly results and the activities of the board
committees.

a key role in the board of directors’ supervisory activities is played by the audit committee (see
p.15).

supervision of subsidiaries and companies in which kbc holds a stake
because kbc group nv is a company whose object is to hold and manage its participations in its di-
rect subsidiaries, the deliberations of the board of directors focuses on supervising the activities and
the performance of these companies. the board of directors monitors developments at the indirect
subsidiaries for the purpose of following up the consolidated results. whenever major developments
occur at these companies, the board of directors will be informed thereof on an ad hoc basis. all
direct subsidiaries likewise have audit committees. the chairman of the audit committee of kbc
group nv presides over most of the direct subsidiaries’ audit committees, as well.

remuneration
the remuneration of non-executive directors consists exclusively of a ﬁxed annual emolument and
an attendance fee per meeting of the board of directors attended (set by the general meeting of
shareholders).

kbc group nv does not grant loans to directors. such loans may, however, be granted by kbc
bank in compliance with article 28 of the banking act, meaning that the loans may be granted at
terms applying to customers.

     3 executive committee

     the board of directors constitutes an executive committee, within the meaning of article 524 bis
     of the belgian companies code, made up initially from among its members, to which it delegates
     its powers of management in respect of kbc group nv. the names of the members of the
     executive committee and the date on which their term of ofﬁce comes to an end are set out in
     the table on p. 16.
     the executive committee exercises its powers autonomously, but always within the framework
     of the general strategy deﬁned by the board of directors, and in accordance with the internal
     governance understanding with the bfic. this delegation does not relate to general policy or
14   matters which, by law, are reserved for the board of directors. the board of directors is responsi-
     ble for the supervision of the executive committee.

     the executive committee is a collegiate body. it currently consists of the presidents of the
     executive committees of the three principal group entities, i.e. kbc bank, kbc insurance and
     kredietbank sa luxembourgeoise. in due time, the executive committee will be reorganized
     along the major business lines, supported by a limited number of centralized corporate staff func-
     tions. the executive committee may divide its duties amongst its members, but will not detract
     from their collective responsibility. membership of the executive committee is the main activ-
     ity of the relevant persons. the president and the other members of the executive committee
     are appointed by the board of directors on the proposal of the appointments committee that
     should consider proposals made by relevant parties, including management and shareholders.
     the president and the other members of the executive committee are elected and removed upon
     the prior concurrent advice of the bfic. the members of the executive committee as currently
     constituted, are, by virtue of their appointment, managing directors. the board of directors is
     composed in such a manner that the managing directors do not constitute the majority of the
     members of the board of directors. as a rule, the executive committee meets at least once a
     week, but in any event whenever this is in the company’s interest.

     the executive committee further delegates some of its authority to a number of committees,
     some of which are installed at the level of kbc group nv, such as various group risk committees
     and a group asset and liability committee (alco). other committees are or will be installed at
     the level of one or more subsidiaries of kbc group nv.

     remuneration
     the remuneration of the members of the executive committee is set by the board of directors
     based on a proposal by the remuneration committee. for this purpose, a regular comparison is
     made with remuneration levels prevailing in the market.

     the members of the executive committee are remunerated by way of a ﬁxed monthly emolu-
     ment, a variable annual emolument (the amount of which depends on the consolidated proﬁt
     of the kbc group) and options on kbc group nv shares. they also participate in stock option
     plans organized for kbc group staff. an income ceiling applies to the total (ﬁxed and variable)
     remuneration paid annually to each member of the executive committee. the remuneration they
     receive for the ofﬁces they hold in other kbc group companies is set off against the above-men-
     tioned remuneration. the supplementary pension scheme comprises a supplementary retirement
     pension or – if the insured dies and leaves a spouse – a survivor’s pension. the annuity payable
     under the supplementary retirement pension amounts to a maximum of 33% or 36% of the an-
     nual income ceiling, depending on whether the beneﬁciary is the president or another member.
     the survivor’s pension will equal a maximum of 50% of this amount.

remuneration and shareholdings of members of the board of directors in 2004
(renumeration paid to the 8 executive committee [e.c.] members in 2004
is not applicable to the 3 e.c. members in 2005)
                                              members of the                non-executive           board of directors
                                              executive committee           directors               (total)
 remuneration                                                 5 583 3451              1 651 8672                7 235 212
 (gross, before tax, in eur)                  1 660 590 of which by way
                                              of a variable emolument
 total number of kbc shares                                         9 774                 71 450                   81 224
 outstanding
 total number of mandatory                                            630                   1 173                   1 803
 convertible bonds outstanding,                                                                                             15
 maturing in 2008
 total number of options on                                       92 500                  27 100                  119 600
 kbc shares outstanding
 number of options on kbc shares                                  29 300                   4 000                   33 300
 allotted in 2004

1 remuneration paid to the members of the executive committee in 2004 (8 members) and those members who stepped down in
  2003; the amount includes the emoluments received for the ofﬁces held in other group companies.
2 including the proﬁt share awarded under the articles of association for ﬁnancial year 2003 and paid out in 2004.




4 committees within the board of directors

to carry out the preparatory work for the activities of the board of directors and to support it
in carrying out its duties, the following four specialized committees analyse speciﬁc issues and ad-
vise the board of directors on these issues. decision-making remains the collegiate responsibility
of the board of directors. the composition of these committees is set out in the table on p. 16.

the agenda committee consists of the chairman of the board of directors, the chairman of the
audit committee, and certain members of the executive committee. the agenda committee
meets at least prior to each meeting of the board of directors. the chairman of the board of
directors sets the agenda and the matters for deliberation by the board of directors, after consul-
tation with the agenda committee.

the audit committee consists of seven non-executive directors, at least two of whom must be
independent. the audit committee assists the board of directors in the execution of its super-
visory task. its responsibility is to ensure compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and
with policy guidelines and procedures approved by the board of directors, as well as to supervise
risk and internal control. kbc group aims to optimize contacts and the exchange of informa-
tion between the audit committee of kbc group nv and the audit committees of the relevant
direct subsidiaries. in that respect, one of the independent members of kbc group nv’s audit
committee is invited to all meetings of the audit committees of the relevant direct subsidiaries.

the remuneration committee consists of three directors, comprising the chairman of the
board of directors and two independent directors. the remuneration committee is chaired by one
of the independent directors. the president of the executive committee attends the meetings as
an advisory member. the remuneration committee submits to the board of directors for decision
its proposals on the remuneration policy for non-executive directors and the resulting proposals to
be submitted to the shareholders, as well as the remuneration policy for executive management
(including the managing directors). the remuneration committee makes recommendations on the

     composition of the board of directors, the executive committee
     and the board committees

      composition of the board of directors of kbc group as at 30 june 2005
                           name




                                                                                                         primary responsibility


                                                                                                                                     end of current term of ofﬁce

                                                                                                                                                                    non-executive directors
                                                                                                                                                                                              principal shareholders
                                                                                                                                                                                              representatives of

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       independent directors

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               executive committee

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      agenda committee

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          audit committee

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             remuneration committee

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      appointments committee
16



      jan huyghebaert             chairman of the board of directors, kbc group nv                                                2008                              •                                •                                                               •*                                     •                         •*

      philippe vlerick            deputy chairman of the board of directors, kbc group nv                                         2009                              •                                •                                                                                                                                •
      willy duron                 managing director and president of the executive committee,                                     2010                                                                                                         •*                    •                                                                •
                                  kbc group nv
      andré bergen                managing director, member of the executive committee, kbc group nv                              2007                                                                                                         •                     •
      etienne verwilghen          managing director, member of the executive committee, kbc group nv                              2009                                                                                                         •                     •
      paul borghgraef             director of various companies                                                                   2009                              •                                •
      paul bostoen                managing director, christeyns nv and algimo nv                                                  2009                              •                                •
      luc debaillie               chairman and managing director, voeders debaillie nv                                            2009                              •                                •
      jozef cornu                 director, alcatel nv                                                                            2008                              •                                                  •                                                                                    •*                        •
      noël devisch                chairman, boerenbond and maatschappij voor roerend bezit van de                                 2009                              •                                •                                                                                                                                •
                                  belgische boerenbond cv
      frank donck                 managing director, 3d nv                                                                        2007                              •                                •
      rik donckels                managing director, cera beheersmaatschappij nv and almancora be-                                2010                              •                                •                                                                                                                                •
                                  heersmaatschappij nv; president of the executive committee, cera cvba
      jean-marie géradin          director, cera beheersmaatschappij nv and almancora beheersmaat-                                2009                              •                                •
                                  schappij nv
      dirk heremans               professor at the faculty for economic and applied economic sciences,                            2009                              •                                                  •                                                                 •
                                  catholic university of louvain (kul)
      herwig langohr              professor, banking and finance, insead                                                          2007                              •                                                  •                                                                 •
      christian leysen            chairman, ahlers group                                                                          2009                              •                                •
      xavier liénart              director of various companies and director of cera beheersmaatschappij                          2010                              •                                •
                                  nv
      philippe naert              dean tias business school at the university of tilburg and technical                            2009                              •                                                  •                                                                 •                  •
                                  university, eindhoven
      luc philips                 director, kbc group nv                                                                          2009                              •                                •                                                               •                   •*                                           •
      theodoros roussis           ceo, ravago plastics nv                                                                         2008                              •                                •                                                                                   •
      hendrik soete               managing director, aveve nv                                                                     2009                              •                                •
      alain tytgadt               managing director, metalunion cvba                                                              2009                              •                                •
      guido van roey              member of management of inbev nv and chairman of the board of cera                              2009                              •                                •
                                  beheersmaatschappij nv
      germain vantieghem          managing director, cera beheersmaatschappij nv and almancora                                    2010                              •                                •                                                                                   •
                                  beheersmaatschappij nv
      jozef van waeyenberge director, de eik nv                                                                                   2009                              •                                •

      marc wittemans              director, maatschappij voor roerend bezit van de belgische boerenbond                           2010                              •                                •                                                                                   •
                                  cv

     * chairman of this committee.
     secretary to the board of directors: tom debacker

individual remuneration of directors, including bonuses and long-term incentives, whether stock-
related or not, in the form of stock options or other ﬁnancial instruments.

the appointments committee consists of seven members, comprising the chairman of the
board of directors, who also chairs the appointments committee, the chairman of the audit
committee, one independent director, three representatives of the core shareholders and the
president of the executive committee. the appointments committee submits to the board of
directors for approval its recommendations regarding the appointment of directors and members
of the executive committee.

                                                                                                        17
5 risk management at kbc

vision
risks are inherent in every business. to help create lasting value for shareholders, customers, em-
ployees and other stakeholders, risks must be effectively managed, so that both the expense they
entail and the relevant charge against capital are controlled.

the businesses of banking and insurance are exposed to a number of typical risks. credit risk,
market risk and liquidity risk are the main types of risk affecting the banking business, while
the insurance business has to contend primarily with investment risk and a variety of technical
risks. on top of this, both the bank and the insurance activities are exposed to operational risks.
controlling all these risks is one of the most crucial tasks of group management.

principles
at kbc, value and risk management is based on the following fundamental principles.
• value, risk and capital management are inextricably linked to one another. every company’s aim
  is to create value. to achieve this aim, decisions are taken and activities developed, even though
  there is no certainty as to where they will lead. to ensure its own continuity, a company must have
  adequate capital to be able to deal with any unforeseen consequences of adverse developments.
• risk management should be approached from a comprehensive, enterprise-wide angle, taking
  into account all the risks a company is exposed to and all the activities it engages in.
• primary responsibility for value and risk management lies with line management, while a sepa-
  rate value and risk management directorate – operating independently of line management
  – performs an advisory, supporting and supervisory role.
• every material banking and insurance subsidiary is required to adhere to the same risk govern-
  ance model as the parent company.
• the group’s banking businesses have set up a market risk committee, a credit risk committee,
  an operational risk committee and an asset/liability management committee (alco),
  while the insurance businesses have set up an insurance risk committee, an operational risk
  committee and an alco.

risk governance model
the value and risk management governance model, which has been in place since 2004, seeks to
deﬁne the responsibilities and tasks of various bodies and persons within the organization with a
view to ensuring the sound management of value creation and all the associated risks to which
the banking and insurance businesses are exposed. kbc’s risk governance model is organized in
three tiers:
• overarching company and risk committees: the board of directors, audit committee,
  executive committee, group alco, insurance alco and bank alco. these committees

       concentrate on global risk management and on monitoring value creation and capital ad-
       equacy for the entire group.
     • specialized risk committees: these committees concentrate on developing a groupwide frame-
       work for one particular type of risk and monitoring the associated risk management process.
     • line management and activity-speciﬁc committees: line management has primary responsibility
       for value and risk management. the value and risk management directorate measures risks,
       economic capital and value creation for all relevant business entities and reports its ﬁndings
       directly to line management and the relevant activity-speciﬁc committees.
     • the compliance division and internal audit departments: see p. 22

18   chief financial ofﬁcer/chief risk ofﬁcer
     strong, centralized risk management is set up at kbc group level, under the direction of the
     group chief financial ofﬁcer and chief risk ofﬁcer (cfo/cro). although the cfo/cro is not a
     member of the kbc group nv executive committee, he has a standing invitation to attend all of
     its meetings for those items on the agenda that are within his functional expertise. he periodi-
     cally informs the board of directors of the overall risk proﬁle and risk management of kbc group
     and seeks approval for the overall risk appetite.

     board of directors and the audit committee
     the board of directors and the audit committee have an important role to play in value creation
     and risk governance. regular reporting to the audit committee ensures that there is an ample
     ﬂow of information to the relevant members of the board of directors over the course of the
     year. moreover, through the involvement of the entire board in the annual round of approvals of
     risk-tolerance limits, the board is able to take informed decisions on the degree of risk it ﬁnds ac-
     ceptable for kbc and on the adequacy of the risk management structure.

     executive committee and the asset/liability management committees (alcos)
     the executive committee is responsible for the implementation of the value and risk manage-
     ment strategy, and outlines the structure and makes the necessary resources available to allow
     the risk management tasks to be carried out. the cfo/cro is entrusted with the speciﬁc task of
     supervising risk management and the internal control structure.

     to make certain that the insurer’s investment decisions are not inspired by information available
     in the bank that is not in the public domain and vice versa, the group alco is split into three
     committees: a group alco, a bank alco and an insurance alco. the latter two manage the
     alm positions of the bank and the insurer, respectively. besides supervising concentration risk,
     managing group-wide credit risks at portfolio level and monitoring preparations for implement-
     ing the basel ii and solvency ii guidelines, the group alco is responsible for establishing ‘mirror
     portfolios’ and developing capital management.

     specialized risk committees
     chaired by the cfo/cro, the risk committees are composed of representatives from line man-
     agement and the value and risk management directorate. there is a speciﬁc committee for each
     type of risk:
     • the market risk committee monitors the market risks associated with forex and securities trad-
       ing. however, alm risks are managed and monitored by the group alco.
     • the credit risk committee is responsible for supervising the composition and quality of the
       loan portfolio (including the counterparty risk in respect of (re)insurance and market transac-
       tions).
     • the operational risk committee monitors the group’s operational risk management.

• the insurance risk committee is responsible for monitoring speciﬁc insurance risks (premium
  and reserve risk for the non-life insurance business and various types of life insurance risk, such
  as longevity, disability and mortality risks).



organization chart showing the risk functions at kbc




                                          board of directors
                                                                                                        19
             audit committee


                                        executive committee
                                             (cfo/cro)

                                            overarching

                                                               value and risk management
                    group alco
                                                                        directorate
                   (12 members)
                                                                (divided into 6 key divisions)

     bank alco                 insurance alco
    (3 members)*                 (3 members)*

                                             by risk type


      market risk                insurance risk       operational risk              credit risk
      committee                    committee            committee                  committee
      (8 members)                  (8 members)          (8 members)                (8 members)

* also members of group alco




6 csr at kbc

at kbc, communication on all csr-related matters to the external world is handled by the csr
communications function. this function was created within the investor relations ofﬁce in
response to the increasing prominence of csr both within and without kbc and the need to
establish a central point of contact between the various business lines and senior management.
it reports directly to the president of the executive committee and is involved in various working
groups concerned with csr issues.

20

      business ethics at kbc’s belgian entities
                                                                                                               21


             ethical behaviour and integrity are increasingly becoming viewed as essen-
             tial components of sound business practice. public opinion and ever-stricter
             legislation and regulations are obliging companies to pursue policies that pay
             proper attention to responsible business conduct, not least in the ﬁnancial
             sector.




      1 codes of conduct

      the backbone of a company’s business ethics infrastructure is a code of conduct for its employ-
      ees. since its inception, kbc has introduced various guidelines and codes of conduct to foster
      sustainable and socially responsible business practices within the group, based on its mission
      statement. the basic code is the code of conduct for kbc group employees, which sets out
      uniform rules of behaviour applicable to all kbc employees in relation to their respective compa-
      nies, customers and suppliers, colleagues, society, competitors and the media (cf. www.kbc.com).
      the concepts of customer-friendliness, efﬁciency, enterprising spirit and capacity for innovation,
      as laid down in kbc’s mission statement, do not exist in isolation, but only really take on their full
      signiﬁcance in a wider ethical context. more detailed codes derived from this document address
      particular sectors or more sensitive or specialized activities (e.g., code of conduct of kbc group
      for the use of means of communication, as well as codes for dealing room, asset management,
      advisory functions and services dealing with medical data).



kbc against bribery
kbc group is formally opposed to any form of corruption, including extortion and bribery, in both
the private and public spheres. under no circumstances will kbc or any member of its staff know-
ingly offer or give bribes, either directly or indirectly, in the conduct of its operations. kbc does not
condone any form of donations whatsoever to persons or parties in a political or public capacity that
is in contravention of the applicable law, nor will kbc tolerate such behaviour by its employees.

any evidence of such practice will be dealt with accordingly by the relevant department at kbc. in
this respect, kbc fully complies with the letter and the spirit of the legislative and regulatory proscrip-
tions in force against bribery and corruption, including that of national and foreign public ofﬁcials.

     2 integrity and compliance

     within kbc, the compliance division serves as an autonomous watchdog, monitoring and
     promoting compliance of kbc entities in belgium and abroad with regulations in force regard-
     ing banking and insurance operations and reports directly to the president of the executive
     committee and to the chairman of the audit committee. in particular, it is charged with ensur-
     ing that no illegal or criminal transactions occur in connection with money laundering, insider
     trading or other fraudulent activities, as set down in detail in the compliance charter and in
     kbc’s integrity policy (see boxed text below). in this regard, the compliance division collaborates
     with the internal audit departments at kbc, which is charged with monitoring risk management
22   at and detecting any irregularities within all kbc entities. special units have been set up within
     the compliance division to handle particular issues, including the anti-money-laundering unit
     and the anti-fraud unit.

        kbc’s integrity policy – areas of priority
        • money laundering
        • prevention of tax evasion and other ﬁscal irregularities
        • transactions in ﬁnancial instruments
        • insider trading
        • price manipulation and market abuse
        • observance of the privacy act
        • ethical code on proprietary trading
        • incompatibility of mandates




     much attention is also paid to maintaining the conﬁdentiality of information and to respect-
     ing privacy, in accordance with belgium’s privacy act of 8 december 19928. the compliance
     division’s financial ethics unit is responsible for monitoring compliance with policies in this area,
     as well as with issues related to insider trading and incompatibility of mandates at kbc. there are
     speciﬁc guidelines on combating corruption and fraud, training courses have been introduced for
     bank staff in order to prevent the laundering of funds from criminal activity, and speciﬁc restric-
     tions are in place limiting trading in securities by staff who have access to price-sensitive informa-
     tion.

     moreover, in principle, any member of staff can report irregularities or operational shortcomings
     in conﬁdence to the compliance or the audit divisions. if the problem is deemed a serious risk,
     further investigations will be carried out and the relevant division will be required to solve the
     issue.



     3 lending policy

     at kbc, a strict policy and guidelines are in place with regard to business credit. these are ap-
     plicable throughout kbc branch network. in its dealings with its customers and the communities
     in which it operates, kbc observes the principles of fairness, reasonableness, openness, transpar-
     ency and discretion, whilst ensuring privacy. indeed, kbc will only ﬁnance transactions if it can be
     reasonably assumed that, in doing so, normal ethical, legal and ﬁscal standards will be respected.
     as a rule, every loan application is also checked vis-à-vis environmental and social criteria.
     8 the brochure, ‘your privacy, our concern’, is available for kbc customers in belgium.

moreover, kbc endorses the equator principles, a framework of voluntary guidelines developed
for the banking industry under the auspices of the international finance corporation (ifc) to ad-
dress environmental and social issues that may arise in ﬁnancing large-scale projects.9

kbc has set down the following stipulations in its corporate credit policy:
• aspiring borrowers with activities that are potentially polluting must present an environmental
  permit to kbc.
• kbc is unwilling to ﬁnance companies that are exposed to signiﬁcant environmental risks, such
  as the nuclear sector.
• criminal and other socially unacceptable activities, including the drug trade, prostitution and
  illegal arms-related transactions, are ruled out.                                                      23
• potential borrowers must have a known and undoubted reputation.
• kbc does not in principle lend to or invest in arms manufacturers. furthermore, kbc rules out
  investments in or loans to manufacturers of weapons prohibited by law (e.g., anti-personnel
  mines and chemical and biological weapons) or to companies that manufacture or trade in
  weapons that are not prohibited by law, but are internationally recognized as having led to
  disproportionate suffering among civilians in the last ﬁfty years (such as cluster bombs and
  munitions and weapons containing depleted uranium).10



4 sri research and stakeholder dialogue

in belgium, kbc is the ﬁrst ﬁnancial institution to set up its own in-house sustainable and socially
responsible research department to screen countries and large euro-zone companies for its
customers in the ﬁeld of socially responsible investment (sri). its ﬁndings are discussed with
an independent external advisory board (the external advisory board for sustainability
analysis) comprised of academics and other experts in the ﬁeld from various belgian and dutch
universities. the independence of the advisory board is intended to guarantee an objective as-
sessment of the company and country proﬁles used by kbc’s sri research team and therefore
lends credibility to its sustainability screening process. the advisory board safeguards the quality
of the methodology and research carried out by the sri research team and undertakes a periodic
evaluation of the completeness, thoroughness and accuracy of the screening process, as provided
by the presentation of the screened companies and countries by the analysts. the results of all
the sectors screened are submitted to the advisory board for discussion. in keeping with its active
and transparent communications policy, kbc makes the results of this sustainability screening
available to the public at no charge on its web site (cf. http://www.kbcam.be/sustainableinvest-
ment/ ).

kbc endorses the european social investment forum’s (eurosif) internationally recognized
transparency guidelines for the retail sri fund sector and in 2004 played an active role in setting
up belsif (the belgian sustainable and socially responsible investment forum). belsif is
a unique, multi-disciplinary organization composed of representatives from the belgian ﬁnancial
world, research institutes and ngos concerned with sustainable development and social respon-
sibility. belsif’s mission is to persuade private, institutional and public bodies to support and pro-
actively encourage the sustainable and socially responsible policy of institutional issuers in their
investments and investment activities and plans to establish a knowledge centre for sustainable
and socially responsible business. at the time of writing, kbc was holding the presidency of this
organization. (cf. www.belsif.be)


9 see appendix iii
10 see boxed text on sri funds in chapter 7, p. 48.

     in addition, kbc is a member of the csr advisory board of conseur/test-achats, the main
     consumer rights organization in belgium, and external adviser to trivisi, an ongoing project of
     the flemish community (regional public authority) to enhance sustainable and socially responsible
     policies in companies.

     as regards ongoing dialogue with stakeholders, kbc has been involved in pro-active discussions
     with ngos such as oxfam solidarity (north-south dialogue), gaia (animal rights) and netwerk
     vlaanderen in deﬁning a methodological framework and set of practices in the areas of gene
     technology, animal testing and weapons manufacture. with this last, in particular, active dialogue
     resulted in a concrete, overarching policy concerning the arms industry. indeed, in mid-2004, kbc
24   became the ﬁrst ﬁnancial institution in belgium to remove companies involved in the produc-
     tion of controversial weapons systems (anti-personnel landmines, cluster bombs and munitions
     and weapons using depleted uranium) from all investments, including indirect investment via its
     index-linked funds. according to a recent report published by netwerk vlaanderen, ‘kbc asset
     management openly publishes the names of the weapon companies that have been removed
     from investment funds. this form of transparency is a remarkable step within the belgian ﬁnancial
     sector, which has no culture of giving this kind of information... by giving this information, kbc
     makes a meaningful dialogue possible with various stakeholders (its customers and shareholders
     and ngos).’11

     in view of the growing interest in sri funds, kbc asset management has systematically expanded
     its research capacity in this area and, in march 2004, it organized its ﬁrst sustainable funds
     shareholder day to explain investment decisions and to allow shareholders in kbc’s sustainable
     funds to put questions to the fund managers and sri (socially responsible investment) research-
     ers. this initiative was continued in march 2005, with three well-attended regional shareholder
     days.




     11 netwerk vlaanderen, banks disarm(ed): an overview of the results of the campaign ‘my money. clear conscience?’, april 2005

25

26

our employees
                                                                                                                                       27

         for a ﬁnancial services group like kbc, employees are one of its most im-
         portant resources. their commitment, motivation and determination are the
         driving force behind much of the group’s success.




number of staff, kbc belgium 12

                                                          as at 31/12/2003                         as at 31/12/2004
                                                     number             % of total            number             % of total
 senior management                                             174                  1%                  194                  1%
 - of which women                                               13                    -                  13                        -
 junior and middle management                               7 039                 40%                 6 925                40%
 white- and blue-collar staff                              10 503                 59%               10 158                 59%
 permanent                                                 17 597                 99%                17 185                99%
 temporary                                                     120                  1%                   92                  1%
 active                                                    16 223                 92%                15 355                89%
 non-active                                                 1 493                  8%                 1 922                 11%
 men                                                         9 611                54%                 9 386                54%
 women                                                      8 105                 46%                 7 891                46%
 full-time (100%)                                          13 085                 74%               12 008                 70%
 part-time 80%-100%                                         2 467                 14%                 2 609                 15%
 part-time < 80%                                            2 164                 12%                 2 260                 15%
 total                                                     17 716                100%               17 277                100%
 total, in ftes                                            16 270                     -             15 532                         -
 average age                                            41.4 years                    -          42.1 years                        -



1 employee satisfaction

employee satisfaction is an ongoing concern, and regular surveys are carried out twice a year in
belgium to measure it. based on the results of these surveys, selective measures are taken where
necessary. employee satisfaction towards kbc as employer remains at very high levels. the results
of surveys conducted in 2004 for kbc bank/asset management/holding company were as fol-
lows: 36% of the employees were very to extremely satisﬁed, 58% were satisﬁed, 5% were not
very satisﬁed and 1% dissatisﬁed. this is a clear improvement when compared with 2002 data.

 12 these ﬁgures are based on the number of staff at kbc belgium’s main entities (kbc bank, kbc insurance, kbc holding company),
representing roughly 80% of kbc in belgium (cf. p. 7) and include kbc belgium’s staff working abroad.

     the percentage of satisﬁed to extremely satisﬁed employees rose in two years from 91 to 94%;
     the sharpest rise was in the very-to-extremely-satisﬁed category (30 to 36%). the results have
     been communicated extensively via kbc’s in-house magazine and explained to the employee
     representatives.13

     in addition to surveys, other measures have been put into place to enable employees to voice
     their opinions and/or concerns. kbc’s in-house magazine regularly features articles on employ-
     ees in particular departments or branches, whilst the company’s intranet includes an interactive
     online forum and suggestion box. moreover, employees may discuss personal problems conﬁ-
     dentially with their personnel adviser or a member of the compliance division, if the problem is
28   related to ﬁnancial ethics. professional psychologists are also available for consultation within the
     medical service for particular problems arising from undesirable behaviour by members of staff,
     including violence, bullying and sexual harassment.

     employee absenteeism, kbc belgium14 (in %)

      due to                                                         2003                                        2004
      sickness                                                       3.21                                         2.71
      maternity leave                                                0.90                                         0.75
      accidents                                                      0.22                                         0.15
      total                                                          4.33                                         3.60



     employee absenteeism may be construed as another indicator of employee satisfaction.
     according to the table above, employee absenteeism at kbc in belgium fell between 2003 and
     2004. moreover, absenteeism due to sickness is not only in a downtrend, but - at 2.71% - was
     also very low in 2004.

     a number of projects have been set up in belgium in recent years with a view to allowing em-
     ployees to strike a better balance between their professional and private lives, with incentives to
     lessen the stress of commuter travel. these projects have included the introduction of ﬂex-time
     and gliding schedules in the head ofﬁce buildings, the reimbursement of expenses for regular
     commuter travel based on public transportation fares and for bicycle commuters, a car-pooling
     database, home-/teleworking schemes for certain departments and the provision of childcare
     during the holidays. indeed, according to a survey on work-related stress conducted by a univer-
     sity study group at various belgian banks in 2002, kbc employees saw their jobs as demanding,
     but they were also aware that they have a say in the job content and can ensure that their skills
     are being put to good use. this aspect was clearly more conspicuous at kbc than at other banks.
     the survey additionally revealed that there are fewer stress-related complaints at kbc than at
     other banks. kbc employees therefore have less of a chance of ‘burn-out’ and are less prone to
     taking sick leave than employees at other banks.

     in autumn 2004, kbc launched an internal staff insurance and pensions campaign for all its
     employees in belgium with a view to making them aware of the wide range of staff insurance
     products and the favourable pension plan on offer. an extensive information round was also
     organized concerning a number of adjustments to the pay and promotion policy from 2005
     onwards, designed to make this policy even more objective and transparent.

     13 the preliminary results of the latest survey conducted during 2005 showed a further rise in overall employee satisfaction, probably
     partly inﬂuenced by the positive mood regarding the economic climate.
     14 covers kbc bank, kbc insurance and the holding company, including the principal subsidiaries (rougly 80% of kbc in belgium, p. 7).
     absenteeism is calculated here as the percentage of days absent due to sickness/maternity leave/accidents during the standard employ-
     ment year (excluding weekends, national and banking holidays, and unpaid leave days).

2 stafﬁng levels and remuneration policy

stafﬁng levels
in 2004, the total number of employees in the group fell by approximately 8% to 46 554 full-
time equivalents (ftes).15 if the reduction in the stafﬁng level resulting from the sale of certain
kredyt bank (poland) subsidiaries is not taken into account, the decline came to slightly less than
4%. the reduction in the workforce at kbc belgium over the past few years, due in part to the
implementation of the merger, has been achieved through natural attrition, an increase in part-
time work, easier transfers to other group companies (various job openings at kbc insurance
were ﬁlled by kbc bank staff) and a strict limit on external recruitment. gradually, however,
external recruitment is getting under way again (to replace staff leaving). the internal labour                                29
market was also reopened in early 2005, with vacancies being advertised in-house ﬁrst, so as to
give employees the opportunity to further their careers or take up new challenges. as part of the
integration of the bank and the insurer’s human resources functions, the respective recruitment
and selection services of kbc bank and kbc insurance have been brought under one manage-
ment, thereby enhancing kbc’s proﬁle in the labour market.

employee turnover, kbc belgium16
 (in ftes)                                                 2003                                     2004
 new recruits  17
                                                           103.2                                     151.9
 employee departures18                                     685.8                                    913.4



remuneration policy
kbc operates an equal pay policy for men and women with the same job content and job grade,
both in terms of basic monthly salary and as regards bonuses and other fringe beneﬁts. each pay
scale increase is communicated in writing or electronically to all employees of the division in ques-
tion. this reﬂects the bank’s commitment to maximum openness and objectivity with regard to
pay and promotion.

non-management staff members receive a certain salary scale based on job content and per-
formance. the remuneration (ﬁxed and variable) is strictly stipulated for each pay scale and
increases only with age. this means that men and women always receive identical salaries within
their pay scale and based on their age, as well as identical fringe beneﬁts and identical bonuses in
the event of identical performance.

transfer to a structurally higher pay scale requires an objective pay scale review which looks only
at the competences of the candidate, not at their gender, ethnic origin, etc.



3 equal treatment and non-discrimination

it is basic kbc policy to treat all members of staff equally. for instance, in its staff regulations,
and its selection and promotion policy and performance appraisal systems, kbc does not make
any distinction whatsoever on the grounds of sex, religion, ethnic background or sexual orienta-
tion, etc. its mission statement makes it clear that kbc will not tolerate any undesirable behaviour
whatsoever. kbc has also drawn up and communicated a procedure via the intranet to preclude
or do away with all forms of violence, bullying and sexual harassment at work.
15 see table in appendix i.b on p. 58.
16 covers kbc bank/asset management/holding company/insurance, including branch network, but excluding independent insurance
agencies (rougly 80% of kbc in belgium, p. 7).
17 excludes new recruits on a temporary contract.
18 these numbers appear to be high, but include employees who transferred to other kbc group companies.

     women employees
     the percentage of women in management functions has been a continual area of attention for
     kbc. the promotion of women to management posts is related to the number of highly qualiﬁed
     female applicants and the resultant appointments. these numbers have improved considerably in
     recent years, and women now account for approximately 50% of appointments at graduate or
     university level. the number of qualiﬁed women joining the bank has been at consistently high
     levels in recent years, and this has resulted in a continuous increase in the number of women in
     management functions.

     within kbc – where we operate a policy of ‘the right person in the right place’, a number of
30   female managers and directors are currently studying ways of increasing the number of female
     employees rising to more senior positions within the company.

     to facilitate a healthy work-life balance, kbc has implemented a large number of initiatives
     including part-time working, providing childcare facilities during holidays, ﬂexible working hours,
     local working, measures to resolve mobility problems (subsidising public transport, bicycle grants,
     etc.). these measures are also open to employees in middle-management posts. according to the
     traditional role patterns in belgium, it is mainly women who make use of these services, though
     an increasing number of men are also doing so. these measures promote participation - including
     by women - in the employment process and enable them to combine jobs carrying a higher level
     of responsibility with their family life.

     to make female employees of the bank aware of this issue, kbc issued a special edition of its
     in-house magazine dedicated to women staff members on 8 march 2005 (commemorating the
     international women’s day), in which female employees were free to give their opinions on the
     bank’s policy on women.

     employee breakdown19

      age             male       female         total
                                                             50%
      21 - 25        2.39%        4.27%        3.22%
                                                             40%
      26 - 30         7.99%       17.55%       12.17%
      31 - 35       11.58%       19.44%       15.02%         30%

      36 - 40       17.08%       20.87%       18.74%         20%
      41 - 45       23.21%       14.89%       19.57%
                                                             10%
      46 - 50       19.02%       12.43%        16.14%
                                                              0%
      51 - 55       14.20%         9.02%       11.93%
                                                                    21-25 26-30   31-35   36-40   41-45   46-50   51-55 56-60   >60
      56 - 60         4.31%        1.51%       3.08%
      >60             0.21%       0.03%         0.13%                                         age range
                                                                     female
                                                                     male
      total           100%         100%         100%




     the table and bar chart above shows that women are in the overwhelming majority amongst the
     younger age groups. this is partly a reﬂection of a generational shift as more qualiﬁed women
     entered the workforce in recent years.




     19 includes kbc bank/asset management/holding company/insurance (rougly 80% of kbc in belgium, p. 7).

non-discrimination
discrimination in all forms is tightly regulated in belgium by a whole body of laws and regula-
tions. they are designed to protect all ethnic groups and their scope also covers discrimination on
the grounds of nationality, age, religion, sexual orientation, disability and present or future health
conditions. as an important player on the belgian market, kbc group complies strictly with the
anti-discrimination legislation in force.

in the code of conduct for kbc group employees (cf. www.kbc.com), kbc explicitly endorses the
vlaams manifest van het bedrijfsleven tegen sociale uitsluiting van migranten (‘flemish trade
and industry manifesto against the social exclusion of migrants’) drawn up by the vev,
the flemish employer’s federation, which clearly reﬂects its intention to take up the challenge of                 31
preventing and combating the social exclusion of migrants and promoting their economic and
social integration.

kbc group is also a signatory to the ondernemers tegen racisme en voor diversiteit (‘flemish
entrepreneurs against racism and for diversity’) charter. kbc condemns and forbids any
form of discrimination in the recruitment and promotion process throughout all its entities world-
wide.

in addition, cera, one of kbc group’s core shareholders, is a co-operative enterprise whose ob-
ject includes supporting social and community projects, as well as initiatives designed to encour-
age social equality. (see www.cera.be)

finally, it should be mentioned that kbc is opposed to any form of child labour or forced la-
bour, both of which are prohibited by law in belgium.



4 social dialogue

in belgium, both positive and negative freedom of association are guaranteed by the act of
24 may 1921. this is much broader in scope than the international labour organisation (ilo)
conventions 87 and 98,20 ratiﬁed by belgium, which guarantee positive freedom of association
only. the right to collective bargaining is enshrined in belgium’s collective agreements and joint
committees act of 5 december 1968. this law stipulates that employee representative organiza-
tions alone are authorized to take part in such actions.

at kbc, every employee may become a member of one of the employee unions or submit
his/her candidacy via such an organization for a mandate in the ofﬁcial consultative bodies. the
employee unions at kbc have access to more facilities than is legally required (e.g., number of
mandates in consultative bodies, setting up of a european works council even before the imple-
mentation of a european directive in this regard, etc.). kbc’s desire to maintain social dialogue is
illustrated by the fact that the trade unions are viewed as true ‘social partners’ and are continually
involved – both formally and informally – in kbc’s operations. additionally, kbc helped to set up
consultative bodies for junior and senior management employees, based on the notion of partici-
pative management.

the trade unions represent all employees at the consultative forums: employees can elect their
representatives at the social elections which take place every four years. the latest round took
place in may 2004 following convocations from kbc and the trade unions to appoint representa-

20 ilo 87: freedom of association and protection of the right to organize convention, ratiﬁed on 23 october 1951
ilo 98: right to organize and collective bargaining convention, ratiﬁed on 10 december 1953

     tives to the works councils and the occupational health and safety committees. 90% of the kbc
     staff cast their vote in the social elections, which is a high rate of participation for belgium and
     further evidence of the constructive nature of social dialogue at kbc.

     additionally in 2004, kbc worked very closely with the unions, holding talks with the works
     councils, the health and safety committees, union representatives, the european works council
     and other consultative bodies. in belgium, a collective labour agreement providing for an increase
     in purchasing power by means of a one-off gross premium was concluded in 2004 in both the
     banking and the insurance sectors. a number of collective labour agreements (caos) were con-
     cluded speciﬁcally for kbc bank (and the kbc holding company) in the same year with regard to
32   such matters as an ‘age-aware’ personnel policy and support and guidance measures for employ-
     ees involved in orbay, the joint venture between kbc and rabobank nederland for the process-
     ing of securities transactions. the standard employment regulations were also amended and
     updated in the insurance business and a cao was concluded with a view to standardizing closing
     days and replacement days for public holidays within the kbc group entities in belgium.



     5 talent development and knowledge management

     kbc’s vision on training is based on the fundamental belief that everyone has talents, that appro-
     priate remuneration should be paid for these talents and that opportunities should be provided
     for their further development. talent development is not, however, just a matter of taking courses,
     but starts with the individual employee, and developmental needs and possibilities are therefore a
     standard element in the feedback and job performance interviews with line managers.

     kbc offers a differentiated range of developmental possibilities, taking account of an individual’s
     various skills. various types of training tools are available (classical, individual study, learning on
     the job, etc.) across the entire banking and insurance spectrum and employees may consult and
     sign up for courses via an in-house, on-line catalogue. depending on the envisaged goal, kbc
     arranges courses for in-class training, individual study or e-learning, while employees may also
     opt for non-work-related evening courses free of charge. speciﬁc training programmes for new
     employees and particular job categories are also provided, as well.

     in 2004, a number of the bank and the insurer’s training departments in belgium were trans-
     ferred to the holding company, so that the scope of their activities now encompasses several
     belgian group entities. the career screening systems of kbc bank and kbc insurance in belgium
     have been brought into line with one another with a view to establishing a group-wide career
     policy. employees’ competencies are identiﬁed by means of career surveys. this in turn enables
     customized career development plans to be drawn up and facilitates the exchange of compe-
     tencies within the group on an objective basis.

     further improvements were made to the efﬁciency of human resources management and training,
     for example, through the introduction of a new sap software package (system analysis and program
     development) for training administration, the far-reaching integration of commercial and skills train-
     ing in a single kbc skills centre, the consolidation of commercial training projects at cluster level
     and the already noted integration of training activities at the bank and the insurance company. new
     instruments have also been introduced for identifying and managing knowledge, while the range of
     ﬂexible forms of learning, such as e-learning and on-the-job learning, has been extended. by way of
     support for independent insurance agents and their staff, an intensive training programme has been
     set up for new agents in speciﬁc areas (e.g., ﬁnancial management), as well.

attention has also been devoted to expanding the training programme to kbc entities outside of
belgium, with customized projects being set up in a number of central european group compa-
nies. moreover, talent management is increasingly being handled at international level. an ex-
ample of this type of management is the intensive, twice-yearly ‘kbc academy’ programme for
promising young ‘high potentials’ throughout the group’s network worldwide, the ﬁrst session of
which was held in spring 2005.

breakdown of courses according to course days and areas, kbc belgium 21

 year                                                                                              2003     2004
 number of course participant days (total)                                                        41 957   48 259   33
 in-house courses                                                                                 32 917   36 715
 external courses                                                                                  4 021    5 332
 open learning*                                                                                    4 324    5 797
 banking course (special in-house programme)                                                         694     416
 in-house courses per area                                                                         100%    100%
 banking/insurance-related                                                                          40%      37%
 sales                                                                                              15%      14%
 management/skills                                                                                  18%      22%
 it                                                                                                 21%      22%
 other (e.g., languages)                                                                             6%       5%
 other key ﬁgures
 number of staff who followed work-related courses                                                10 275    9 229
 average number of training days per fte                                                            2.58     3.11
*optional induction or refresher courses held outside working hours (including non-work-related classes)


according to the above table, a clear rise can be seen in the number of training days per fte
between 2003 and 2004.



6 health and safety

kbc has a sizeable prevention department covering all group entities in belgium. its main
focus is on the prevention of occupational accidents. the prevention department is divided into
several areas of expertise, including a medical service with certiﬁed doctors and nurses spread
across various locations in belgium for employee use, professional psychologists, advisers in
ergonomics and hygiene/sanitation. all professionals are encouraged to keep up to date in their
ﬁeld via internal or external courses. kbc also operates a prevention policy via regional commit-
tees, where employer and employee representatives meet on a monthly basis in order to pursue
preventive policy with a view, among other things, to avoiding accidents at work.

two indicators used by kbc’s prevention department with regard to occupational accidents is the
frequency22 and severity 23 of accidents at work (including commuting to/from work), reported
on an annual basis. these statistics enable kbc to compare its performance with that of the rest
of the belgian services sector.



21 kbc bank/asset management/holding company/insurance
22 number of accidents vis-à-vis number of work hours
23 number of work days lost vis-à-vis number of work hours

     frequency and severity of accidents at work, kbc belgium 24

                                                                 2003                              2004
      frequency                                                    5.4                               4.3
      severity                                                    0.08                              0.06

     in 2004, kbc recorded a frequency of 4.3 occupational accidents and a severity of 0.06, a clear
     decline from the year before and much lower than the average for the belgian services sector in
     2003 (23.76 and 0.54, respectively).

34   in the event that a work-related accident nonetheless occurs, kbc has taken out insurance which
     also covers accidents occurring on the way to and from work. this insurance covers the medi-
     cal costs and guarantees a substantial net income which approaches the employee’s normal in-
     come. moreover, kbc also provides assistance in the case of other non-work-related accidents
     or hospital admissions (e.g., payment of hospitalization expenses via an insurance policy, guaran-
     teed income, repatriation from abroad, income top-up in the event of long-term incapacity for
     work, etc.). in the event of death - whether or not due to a work-related accident - there are also
     a number of ﬁnancial assistance schemes for the next of kin (a lifelong annuity for the spouse
     and minor children, etc.).

     employees are also offered the option of enrolling in a pension plan via:
     (1) one funded by the employer, which ensures that employees receive a substantial amount on
         retirement based on their length of service and their income from the bank during the preced-
         ing ﬁve years. this capital sum can be converted to a lifelong annuity.
     (2) one funded by the employee, involving tax-friendly investment with a guaranteed minimum
         return

     kbc additionally provides health and/or accident insurance for employees, for example:
     (1) free hospitalization insurance which covers all costs of a hospital admission from three
         months before until six months after admission (including medication, doctors’ fees, etc., both
         before and afterwards).
     (2) accident insurance which also covers accidents on the way to work.
     (3) a guaranteed income in the event of incapacity for work which approaches the normal net
         income from employment.
     (4) personal assistance whilst abroad (free medical care, repatriation, help searching for missing
         persons, etc.)
     (5) medical service with company doctors and nurses, periodic medical checks, facilities for cer-
         tain medical examinations, etc.




     24 covers all group entities in belgium

35

36

environmental stewardship
                                                                                                   37


      clearly, a ﬁnancial group has less of a direct impact on the environment
      than, for example, an industrial concern, but even so its impact is not negligi-
      ble. when it comes to such matters as energy consumption and mobility, for
      instance, there are signiﬁcant ways in which the environmental impact can
      be mitigated.




growing concerns worldwide about climate change and the impact of greenhouse gases have
induced various efforts at corporate level to implement measures to tackle these issues. kbc has
certainly not ignored the trend towards reducing energy consumption and carbon dioxide emis-
sions and focusing on recycling waste products to help lessen the environmental impact. indeed,
over the years, kbc has been closely associated with environmental concerns via its direct link
with argus, an independent belgian organization providing information and know-how on all
matters related to the environment (see boxed text on p. 44). and, in 2003, kbc published its
environmental policy statement, which summarizes its commitment to the environment from
both the operational and product aspects (see boxed text on p. 38).
in keeping with the kbc environmental policy statement, a multi-disciplinary task force was
set up at the end of 2004 at kbc in belgium with responsibility for drawing up an overarching
environmental policy concerning kbc’s direct environmental impact and focusing particularly
on energy, waste and mobility. members of the task force include representatives from various
belgian group entities (including the facilities management, personnel and it departments). the
task force has formulated uniform environmental indicators and targets for energy conservation
and carbon dioxide emissions (including that resulting from business travel), among other things
(cf. table on p. 41).



1 recent achievements

                 kbc’s head ofﬁce in brussels was awarded the ‘eco-dynamic company’
                 label for the 2003-2006 period by the brussels institute for management of the
                 environment (cf. www.ibgebim.be). this is the ﬁrst step in kbc’s commitment
                 to move towards meeting the requirements in implementing the iso 14001
                 standard for environmental management systems.

     kbc’s environmental policy statement
     kbc’s environmental policy statement is in line with its overall mission statement which, true
     to the stakeholder model, covers kbc’s role within the communities it serves.

     in keeping with this mission statement, kbc observes certain principles with regard to its op-
     erations and their impact on the environment and, in each of its activities (such as lending and
38   investment), devotes all due consideration to environmental policy and ecological risks.

     kbc is aware of the fact that it has a clear, direct impact on the environment and that even in
     a service-providing and information-processing enterprise the rational use of natural resources
     can signiﬁcantly reduce this impact.

     compliance with environmental legislation is naturally the very least that can be done, but
     kbc also, in so far as is economically feasible, applies the highest possible technical standards
     and sets its own objectives for reducing/limiting its impact on the environment.

     the indirect environmental impact which it generates via its customers through the sale of
     its products and services is, however, greater than its own direct impact. consequently, it
     will have an eye to the inﬂuence on the environment of companies and projects it ﬁnances.
     through the advice and service it provides, it will endeavour to preventatively limit the environ-
     mental effects its customers may cause. kbc will be assisted in this by argus, an independent
     organization kbc has funded for more than thirty years and which has built up considerable
     know-how in the area of environmental advice and policy.

     scope
     operations
     kbc will ensure that its use of resources is as ecologically sound and as rational as possible,
     and will pay particular attention its use of water and energy, its consumption of products, the
     prevention and processing of waste, transportation and employee-mobility. the point of de-
     parture here will be full compliance with the relevant laws and implementation of environmen-
     tal performance systems inspired by eco-management and audit scheme (emas) legislation.
     kbc endorses sustainable building principles and, in providing accommodation for its work-
     force, takes account of such factors as the possible environmental impact, as well as of em-
     ployee comfort and efﬁciency.
     kbc encourages its suppliers to adopt a similar approach.

     customer service
     for credit-granting purposes, risk analyses conducted on the borrower always take account of
     environmental risks, partly because they could potentially have an adverse impact on the bor-
     rower’s activities and consequently on his repayment capacity and collateral.
     accordingly, wherever possible, the bank checks whether the borrower complies with envi-
     ronmental legislation, and to this end devotes the requisite attention to environmental issues in
     training its personnel.
     by organizing seminars on environmental performance for companies, whether in collabora-
     tion with argus or external partners, it helps its business customers to control their environ-

mental risks. argus also provides ﬁrst-line information on environmental problems to kbc
branches or directly to individual companies.
via kbc asset management, kbc also offers a range of sustainable investment funds, suitable
for the entire range of risk proﬁles. an in-house research unit conducts sustainability screening
on a number of countries and companies, and much of this involves examining various envi-
ronmental aspects. the outcome of this screening is made public.
in the ﬁeld of insurance, kbc puts its environmental policy into practice by devoting attention     39
to environmental aspects of policies, creating speciﬁc environmental insurance and seeking to
prevent environmental incidents being caused by the persons it insures.

objectives and responsibilities
environmental performance systems
kbc seeks to continuously apply its environmental policy, and consequently plans to develop
and implement, in stages, an environmental management system that will entail analysing the
main environmental effects, setting and updating targets, and formulating, implementing and
following up action plans with a view to enhancing kbc’s environmental performance on a
continuous basis.
any potentially adverse effects on the environment will be detected proactively and as quickly
as possible, so that they can be avoided or minimized.
each year, environmental targets and corresponding environmental programmes are formu-
lated/reviewed by divisions whose activities have a direct environmental impact.

follow up and audit
to facilitate the achievement of the objectives, appropriate procedures and systems have
been developed and put in place. performance with regard to meeting the annual objectives
is reported and monitored via the balanced score cards of those directorates that have direct
environmental responsibilities.

internal reports
only through the active participation of employees is sustainable development possible.
to facilitate the achievement of the company’s objectives, a broad platform has been es-
tablished which encompasses all those concerned either directly (facility management and
personnel) or indirectly (all group companies, users, employees). this platform is used to
provide information, solicit co-operation and provide an opportunity for dialogue with a view
to obtaining fresh input.

external reports
kbc devotes a speciﬁc section in its annual report to its environmental performance. it ensures
that correct information is provided to all stakeholders, including information on its environ-
mental impact and conservation efforts.

     moreover, in 2004 and again in 2005, kbc signed the west flanders environmental charter
     for all of its 179 branches in that province. the charter is an initiative of gom west-vlaanderen
                                      (the west flanders regional development authority), bvqi (a cer-
                                      tiﬁcation agency) and charter zuid-west-vlaanderen, and brings
                                      together companies which voluntarily subscribe to environmental
                                      principles and objectives. endorsement of this charter implies not
                                      only that kbc is complying with the environmental legislation in
                                      force, but that kbc also seeks to continually improve its environ-
                                      mental performance and to take action on a number of environ-
                                      mental issues. each year, an evaluation commission carries out an
40   audit of each of the charter signatories to check their progress on the environmental front (cf.
     http://www.gomwvl.be/ned/milieu/mcharter.htm).

     in the area of procurement, kbc has introduced a ‘sustainability clause’ in its contracts with
     third-party suppliers and contract work pertaining to property, thereby ensuring the use of
     environmentally-friendly products.

     kbc has been actively managing various projects in its belgian operations for rational energy
     consumption, the purchase of green power, the selective collection of hazardous waste and
     the reduction of paper consumption. kbc succeeded, for example, in cutting the quantity of
     printed advertising material by 50% in 2004. in the ﬁnal quarter of 2004, kbc bank launched its
     waste management project. the initial stage of this project will focus on identifying and inven-
     torying all waste produced, with a view to optimizing the entire waste process and harnessing
     hitherto unexploited synergy. waste management efforts are not, however, conﬁned to belgium.
     in the czech republic, for example, kbc group is already pursuing a selective waste manage-
     ment policy in all its bank ofﬁces and branches. in addition, it has installed a system to measure
     the consumption of electricity in larger buildings, and modern, low-energy technology is gradu-
     ally being introduced.

     based on the environmental policy statement, kbc has developed a policy which focuses on
     maximizing customer friendliness and, at the same time, minimizing the burden of business travel
     on the environment. kbc encourages its staff to opt for alternative commuter arrangements such
     as carpooling, public transport and bicycle. to that end, a comprehensive, up-to-date carpool-
     ing database has been developed to ensure a good match between car-poolers and place of
     domicile, commuters using public transport are reimbursed for their periodic subscriptions and
     separate bicycle stalls and locker rooms/showers have been built for bicycle users. kbc has also
     piloted a system of localized work stations as part of an effort to reduce commuting distance to
     ofﬁce locations. moreover, to cut back on excessive business travel, video conferencing facilities
     have been set up in the head ofﬁces.

     the table on p. 41 is based on that provided in ‘vfu indicators 2005: internal environmental
     performance indicators for the financial industry’ 25, available at www.epiﬁnance.com. it shows
     the environmental performance of kbc’s belgian entities (including kbc bank, kbc insurance,
     kbc asset management, the kbc holding company, cbc banque, centea, kbc lease). this is the
     ﬁrst time comprehensive data has been collected for all of kbc belgium.




     25 vfu, or verein für umweltmanagement in banken, sparkassen und versicherungen e.v. (association for environmental management
     in banks, savings banks, and insurance companies), is a german organization which has been instrumental in developing a pragmatic
     and practical approach to measure and report on environmental performance within the ﬁnancial sector.

2 environmental performance indicators
                                                                                            employees             absolute            relative
                  indicators 2004 – kbc belgium                                   corre-    em-           absolute         data       relative
                                                                                  spond-                                              ﬁgures
                                                                                  ing       ployees       ﬁgures           quality    2004
                                                                                  gri
                                                                                  indica-
                                                                                            covered       2004                        (per em-
                                                                                  tors                                                ployee)

                  1) total internal energy consumption in gj (gj per empl.) en 3              17 169*         731 699                       43
                  1a) electricity consumed internally in gj (gj per empl.)                      17 169         453 224            1          26
                  electricity from hydroelectric power stations
                  % from electrabel                                                                                61%            3
                  % from nuon green                                                                                26%            1                  41
                  % from nuon grey                                                                                 14%            1
internal energy




                  % from other suppliers                                                                            0%            1
                  1b) fossil fuels consumed internally in gj (gj per empl.)                     17 169         278 474            1          16
                  natural gas                                                                                  236 302            1          14
                  heating oil                                                                                   42 172            1              2
                  2) total business travel in km (km per empl.)                   en 34
                  2a) commuter travel                                                         2 808**      30 171 960             2     10 744
                  % rail travel                                                                                    47%
                  % road travel                                                                                    40%
                  % car pooling                                                                                     6%
                  % bus                                                                                             5%
                  % bicycle- pedestrian                                                                             2%
                  2b) business travel                                                          17 169
business travel




                  2a) rail travel                                                                                      -          0
                  2b) road travel                                                                          43 644 455             1      2 542
                  2c) short-haul air travel                                                                            -          0              -
                  2d) long-haul air travel                                                                             -          0              -
                  3) total paper consumption in tons (kg per empl.) en 1                    20 358***            2 551            3        125
                  3a) post-consumer recycled                                                                           4          3       0.20
                  3b) new ﬁbres ecf + tcf                                                                         2 547           3        125
                  3c) new ﬁbres chlorine bleached                                                                      0          3              0
paper




                  3d) consumption of fsc-labelled paper in tons                                                        0          3              0
                  4) total water consumption in m (m per empl.)
                                                         3    3
                                                                                  en 5      9 487****         112 224             3        125
                  4a) rain water
water




                  4b) natural water
                  4c) drinking water                                                                           112 224            3
                  5) total waste in tons (kg per empl.)                           en 11        17 169            5 667                     330
                  5a) valuable materials separated and recycled                                 17 169            4 308           1        251
waste




                  5b) waste incinerated                                                         17 169            1 360           1          79
                  5c) waste disposed of in landﬁlls
                  6) direct and indirect ghg emissions in tons (kg per empl.)
                  6a) ghg emissions from direct energy use                        en 8         17 169           44 452            1      2 589

notes to the table

data quality                                                                    **covers kbc bank/asset management/holding company at
3 data based on exact measurement such as bill and meter                        brussels head ofﬁces
2 data based on calculation / detailed estimate                                 *** covers all entities mentioned under ﬁrst point plus independ-
1 data based on rough estimate                                                  ent insurance and centea agencies
0 data not reported                                                             **** covers all head ofﬁces of kbc bank/asset management/
                                                                                holding company/insurance/lease + centea, but excluding branch
*covers kbc bank/asset management/holding company/
                                                                                and agency networks.
insurance/lease + cbc + centea, including all administrative of-
ﬁces and branch networks, but excluding independent insurance
and centea agencies

     indicator 1 (internal energy consumption) and
     indicator 6a (greenhouse gas emissions)
     indicator 1 covers the overall amount of energy used within kbc’s buildings. not included is the
     fuel consumption for business travel, which is covered by indicator 2a (business travel).
     electricity consumption (indicator 1a) is broken down according to the suppliers used by kbc,
     electrabel and nuon. the latter provides ‘green power’ – 100% carbon-neutral, as well as con-
     ventional ‘grey’ power.
     the dedicated choice of renewable energy has a positive effect on greenhouse gas emissions
     (ghg) (indicator 6a).

42   as most kbc buildings are new, any major efforts to improve the power systems would be dif-
     ﬁcult because the present installations are already performing as they should be.
     most of the gains to be made have already been reaped (i.e. good housekeeping actions have
     already been implemented). under the current operational conditions (present comfort levels,
     business hours, etc.), the overall energy consumption will continue to be at the same level.

     kbc pursues a deliberate strategy of optimizing employee productivity and satisfaction by provid-
     ing an optimal in-house comfort level for employees and visitors alike. any clear improvement in
     kbc’s energy performance will be impossible without affecting this in-house comfort level, which
     may/will have repercussions on job satisfaction and productivity.

     indicator 2 (total business travel)
     this indicator covers business trips undertaken by the company’s employees. travel undertaken by
     clients and suppliers are not included.

     road travel is deﬁned as business trips undertaken in leased, business or private cars, document-
     ed by kilometre.

     indicator 3 (total paper consumption)
     total paper consumption is deﬁned as the amount of paper ordered by the various group entities.

     the following categories make up the largest share of paper used:
     • ofﬁce paper (multi-functional paper for copying and printing);
     • letterhead/pre-printed forms;
     • envelopes;
     • continuous paper forms (account statements for clients, etc.);
     • marketing material and publications (internal and external).

     indicator 3a concerns recycled paper. this includes only paper which is 100% recycled post-
     consumer waste.

     indicators 3b and 3c both represent new-ﬁbre-type paper. here, the issue which is environmen-
     tally relevant is whether the paper is still bleached using elementary chlorine (indicator 3c) or
     whether a more ecologically friendly technology is employed (indicator 3b). kbc bans the use of
     chlorine-bleached paper and purchases ecf/tcf paper with 18% fsc ﬁbres.




     most paper types and volumes are purchased centrally. the data available covers kbc group in
     belgium, including the tied, but independent commercial agencies of kbc insurance and centea.

as a result, the number of ftes covered here is higher when compared to other indicators.

paper consumption at kbc is low on account of a successful campaign to reduce paper use. in 3
years, paper consumption declined by 30% (e.g., due to the consistent use of double-sided print-
ers and copiers).

indicator 4 (total water consumption)
kbc’s water supply constitutes mainly drinking water. some local branches use rain water for the
purpose of toilet ﬂushing and irrigation of external areas.
reliable data is available for water supply at kbc’s main administrative buildings. no data is avail-
able regarding the use of rain water.                                                                   43
estimating the water volume used based on ﬁnancial data is impossible because of signiﬁcant
differences between the prices charged in the various regions/cities covered. for this reason, only
data based on meter readings are taken into consideration.

indicator 5 (waste)
the waste indicator covers the total amount of waste produced by kbc. the following
waste categories are included in indicator 5:
• paper/cardboard
• residual waste/domestic-type waste
• special/hazardous waste
• electronic scrap

the following waste categories are not included:
• waste from staff restaurants
• waste from construction and building remodelling

separate collection of paper and cardboard is common practice in belgium. toners and car-
tridges are also collected for recycling. municipal waste and some toxic/dangerous waste ﬂows are
incinerated; only a small amount can be disposed of in landﬁlls.
most obsolete ict hardware is channelled for use in schools and other social projects.

       argus: kbc’s environmental centre
       argus, formerly known as stichting leefmilieu, is an independent flemish
       organization based in antwerp, belgium, which kbc has funded since
       1970. argus is entirely staffed by kbc employees and supervised by an
       independent board chaired by baron rudi verheyen, emeritus professor of
       the university of antwerp and one of the pioneers in environmental stud-
       ies. other members of the board include representatives from universities,
       ngos, labour organizations and public authorities. it has built up considerable know-how in
       the area of environmental advice and policy and aims to contribute to sustainable well-being
44     by providing objective information via various publications and its web site, through education
       and other services, as well as arranging innovative initiatives to raise public awareness on en-
       vironmental issues. one initiative put into practice by argus has organized over the last few
       years has been a series of public debates on various environmental topics, e.g., ‘has the waste
       mountain been suppressed?’26 and ‘the environment: a health hazard?’27. more recently,
       argus has focused on air quality in antwerp by unveiling a special information display at its
       ofﬁce that indicates pollution levels in the city on an hourly basis.




     26 ‘de afvalberg bedwongen?’, held in co-operation with the department of chemical engineers’ technology, free university of
     brussels (vub), 23 november 2004.
     27 ‘milieu: een ziekmaker?’, 1 february 2005.

45

46

kbc’s active role in the society at large
                                                                                                        47



1 sustainable products and services

as stipulated in its mission statement, kbc aims to be a ‘warm and friendly bancassurer’, focused
on customer satisfaction. with this overall objective in mind, kbc has designed and developed a
number of initiatives and a range of products and services to enhance its commitment towards
one of its key stakeholders, its customers.

kbc seeks to pursue a socially responsible and customer-centric policy, inter alia, via sustainable
products and services:
• customer service departments at kbc’s belgian banking and insurance arms to handle custom-
  er-speciﬁc matters. customers may contact kbc via letter, fax or kbc’s call centre or by means
  of an on-line form available on kbc’s belgian web site with any questions, complaints and/or
  suggestions they may have.
• special exemptions from electronic payment charges for older customers and customers with
  serious handicaps, in place since 2003.
• motor insurance policy designed speciﬁcally for young people and senior citizens: for the 18-
  to-25 age group, kbc has come out with a very affordable product, based on the principle of
  ‘family solidarity’, while senior drivers get a lifelong guarantee that kbc will continue to insure
  them, provided they have a good track record as prudent drivers.
• in 2004, kbc was the ﬁrst company in belgium to introduce its own bonus-malus system that
  rewards good drivers better and more quickly. in the event of an accident, loyal customers will
  now be entitled to a lower malus (i.e. premium increase).
• an environmental policy: an insurance policy that covers the statutory clean-up requirement in
  the event of soil pollution; responsibility for organizing and paying for the clean-up is included
  in the cover.
• sustainable and socially responsible investment (sri) funds, including a speciﬁc ecological focus
  (see boxed text on p. 48 and appendix iv).
• initiatives aimed at senior customers:
  - pc training courses: in 2003, kbc launched initiatives speciﬁcally aimed at its older custom-
  ers who feel less at home with the range of electronic services, including pc training courses to
  initiate senior customers to the internet and assist them with doing their banking and insurance
  business electronically. the success of these courses encouraged kbc to repeat them in 2004
  and 2005.
  - senior road shows: initially, this concept centred on introducing electronic bancassurance
  techniques to senior customers, but has since been extended to other payment techniques,
  with the launch of a senior road show focusing on the use of bank cards, credit cards, cash

      withdrawal points and atms in november 2004. similar road shows are being scheduled
      throughout 2005.
      - web site: in connection with the above, a site aimed speciﬁcally for senior customers is now
      available on the kbc’s web site for bancassurance customers in belgium (www.kbc.be).



     sri funds at kbc
     in 1992, kbc launched its ﬁrst sri fund in belgium, the kbc eco fund, with a focus on eco-
     logical values. this fund, now renamed kbc eco fund world, is the oldest sri fund in belgium
48   still in existence. currently, customers may opt to purchase shares in 14 sri funds investing in
     equities, bonds or mixed asset classes via the group’s kbc asset management subsidiary.28
     at the end of 2004, the amount of capital in sri funds came to around 300 million euros,
     swelling to 975 million euros by the end of june 2005 (see chart). moreover, kbc is the market
     leader in the overall investment fund business in belgium (32.2% market share). as far as sri
     funds are concerned, kbc’s market share in belgium is standing at around 30% as at july
     2005 (as opposed to 16% in 2004).


                 in m eur
        1 200

        1 000

          800

          600

          400

          200

            0
                   nov-04        dec-04         jan-05   feb-05   mar-05   apr-05   may-05   jun-05



                         total aum in sri funds




     kbc has been selected for inclusion in the ethibel investment register.
     the ethibel investment register is used as the basis for socially
     responsible investment (sri) products for a growing number of
     european banks fund managers and institutional investors. ethibel offers
     investors two products based on the investment register: the ethibel
     label,29 and the ethibel sustainability indices.30 the distinctive char-
     acteristics of ethibel’s methodology originate from the integration of
     two of the strongest aspects of corporate social responsibility: sustainable development and
     stakeholder involvement.
     for more information on ethibel and the ethibel investment register, surf to www.ethibel.org.




     28 see appendix iv for a list of kbc’s sri funds.
     29 cf. appendix iv
     30 cf. p. 7 (sustainability indices)

2 community involvement

by providing funds and other assistance to various community projects, kbc strives to improve
the general welfare and working environment in the areas in which kbc operates.
kbc’s policy on community engagement has always been based on close collaboration and
dialogue with the various stakeholders: not only has our policy been steered by the numerous
requests for ﬁnancial support on account of kbc’s visibility as a large ﬁnancial institution, but also
by our desire to demonstrate our commitment to act responsibly towards the community. this
chapter describes the various initiatives that kbc has taken during the past year.

kbc’s budget for community endeavours in belgium31 (2004, in euros)                                               49

 philanthropic deeds                                                                                   250 000
 social sponsorship                                                                                    440 500
 public safety awareness campaigns                                                                     545 000
 cultural sponsorship                                                                                  670 000
 rockoxhuis museum: ﬁnancial support                                                                    75 000
                      maintenance & repair                                                             519 500
 total                                                                                                2 500 000



aspiring to be a ‘good neighbour’
kbc’s approach towards community engagement focuses on helping to alleviate poverty and
social disadvantage. in this regard, in belgium, kbc supports initiatives for community building,
self-help groups involved in the restoration of the urban social fabric and the integration of the
disadvantaged and immigrants by means of co-operation with local community centres and other
social associations. such actions are not intentionally aimed at raising kbc’s visibility or ﬁnancial
pre-eminence. these projects, which are designed to promote social integration, are targeted
particularly at the poorer neighbourhoods in which kbc is signiﬁcantly present (in brussels and
antwerp).

kbc takes a long-term, pro-active approach with regard to small-scale schemes which are
frequently managed on a volunteer basis by social workers. for example, at kbc’s head ofﬁce
in brussels, collaborative efforts have been set up with neighbourhood organizations, such as
bonnevie, a community centre, to lower the threshold between the company and the surround-
ing environment and raise staff awareness about the neighbourhood.

in antwerp, kbc has been a patron of rataplan since its inception. rataplan is a not-for-proﬁt
association involved in restoring the romazaal, a protected art deco hall, and promoting cultural
events in the heart of an ethnically mixed, backward neighbourhood, as a way to revive the com-
munity.
what is the rationale behind these efforts? kbc wants to demonstrate its concern towards the
community in which it operates by actively taking part in improving the area via open dialogue
and nurturing awareness and a feeling of responsibility in its employees (including in new re-
cruits).

social sponsorship
with respect to social sponsorship, in belgium, kbc has set its eyes on health care, with an
emphasis on the prevention aspect. non-commercial image-building campaigns have been de-
signed in this regard. the projects selected, such as levenslijn (a charity that organizes fund-rais-

31 approximate ﬁgures for the main entities of kbc bank, kbc insurance and the kbc holding company.

     ing campaigns for various health-care-related issues) and kom op tegen kanker (the anti-cancer
     campaign) not only reﬂect kbc’s community commitment, but also put into practice the slogan,
     ‘putting people ﬁrst’.

     kbc entered into a multi-year contract with levenslijn on the theme of road travel, i.e. increasing
     road safety for children and providing relief for child trafﬁc victims. kbc has heightened public
     awareness in this area by helping to sell so-called levenslijn stars at its bank branches.

     as for kom op tegen kanker, kbc has supported this yearly fund-raising campaign since its
     launch. kbc is actively involved throughout the campaign, starting from the opening show, and
50   the bank branch network assists in collecting the funds raised.

     other child-friendly projects in which kbc is also involved include the simon en odile initiative
     (assisting children hospitalized for a long period in communicating with their parents and class-
     mates) and de sleutel (helping children to become assertive and self-conﬁdent as a ﬁrst step
     towards drug prevention).

     prevention - safety awareness
     kbc handles the theme of prevention from the insurance perspective as a society-wide project.
     prevention campaigns related to asset protection and consumer health care illustrate kbc’s
     willingness to be accountable to society. to that end, kbc collaborates with solid, respectable
     partners who contribute effectively to social well-being.

     a key theme that kbc promotes as a ﬁrst-class insurer is road and travel safety. kbc supports
     various initiatives with regard to raising awareness for road safety, such as the vab (flemish
     automobile association) autohappening, the trafﬁc academy organized by the gezinsbond
     (flemish league of families), bicycle helmet campaigns and the zeb zebra initiative (road safety
     teaching aids for children). on top of this, kbc sponsors the annual veilig en milieuvriendelijk
     naar school campaign (commute safely to school using environmentally friendly means) at 400
     elementary schools throughout flanders, in close co-operation with parents, teachers and the
     police. in future, kbc plans to focus more on road safety in collaboration with the vab, by tak-
     ing a more structured approach to driving classes and driving simulators, with particular regard
     towards elderly motorists.

     another theme concerns ﬁre and burn prevention. in 2005, kbc is actively backing the ﬁre-
     and burn-prevention awareness week. moreover, kbc is a ﬁnancial sponsor of the belgische
     brandwondenstichting (belgian burn foundation) and supports the ‘national burns camps’, vaca-
     tion camps for young burn patients.

     furthermore, in a conscious effort to enhance safety on the belgian coast in the warmer months,
     kbc has ﬁnanced so-called ‘orientation poles’ on the beaches, as well as armbands to help lost
     children ﬁnd their parents again.

     volunteerism at kbc
     volunteerism is both healthy and vital in sustaining the society. recent ﬁgures in flanders
     (belgium) show that one out of ﬁve flemings is actively involved in some kind of volunteer work.
     to demonstrate its dedication to the values underlying volunteerism, kbc has developed a criti-
     cally acclaimed insurance policy which speciﬁcally covers volunteer workers.

     on the other hand, kbc also encourages voluntary work amongst its employees. kbc expresses

its appreciation for and provides further incentives to employees involved in charitable deeds via
the solidarity fund, aandacht voor anderen (show attention to others). employees who devote
their free time to organizations dedicated to care for the handicapped, childcare, home assist-
ance, third-world initiatives, immigrant integration or neighbourhood improvement schemes are
eligible to receive a subsidy of 1 250 euros from kbc on behalf of their group. in 2004, some
thirty projects were supported in this way, including the duikschool handi divers wet wheels (a
diving school for the physically disabled) and met lege handen (a working group for parents who
have lost a baby).

kbc also encourages employee involvement in the areas of social sponsorship and philanthropy.
staff members are called upon to take part in a number of social and health-care projects: e.g.,      51
the fund-raising telethons for kom op tegen kanker; the anti-cancer campaign; they are free to
join in on multi-cultural lunches arranged by neighbourhood associations in brussels (‘anders
gaan eten’ – ‘eating differently’) to stimulate contacts between kbc and the neighbourhood.
employees are also involved in activities where kbc plays a pioneering role: short ﬁlm festival,
guided neighbourhood walks, chess classes and tournaments.

in addition, kbc is a key supporter of the belgian raiffeisen foundation (brs) via the active par-
ticipation an informal group composed of kbc employees in various international projects. brs
represents the international facet of the social operations managed by cera, a core shareholder of
kbc. (see boxed text on p. 52).

moreover, the catastrophic consequences of the major earthquake in southeast asia at the end
of december 2004 did not leave kbc untouched. a major solidarity campaign was mounted in
belgium together with staff, and kbc was able to make a substantial donation to the victims of
the disaster in the course of a national television programme on 14 january 2005.

kbc and cultural events
in 2004, kbc was the primary sponsor of rubens 2004, antwerp’s showcase event featuring
various art exhibitions related to antwerp’s famous son, peter paul rubens. additionally, kbc
leant a spectacular hand to abc (antwerp book capital) 2004, antwerp’s literary imitative, by
draping a banner with poetry down the side of its boerentoren building (the ﬁrst skyscraper in
antwerp and continental europe).

kbc also focuses on musical events by sponsoring a number of festivals in various towns in
belgium. it was one of the founders of the ambitious gouden vleugels project to help promote
young, would-be classical musicians in flanders by, among other things, arranging master classes
and musical competitions for them. one of the prizes sponsored by kbc at the competitions is
the kbc music prize, which was presented for the second time in january 2005.

the rockoxhuis, antwerp’s unique museum
the rockoxhuis was constructed in the 17th century as the private residence for the mayor of
antwerp and art collector of the time, nicolaas rockox. this patrician ediﬁce now serves as a
museum and houses a wealth of paintings, furniture and sculptures, as well as an evocation of an
early 17th-century town garden.

purchased by kbc in 1970, the museum continues to be in the hands of kbc, but is open to
the general public. each year, a special exhibit takes place, focusing on a particular facet of the
museum’s collection. in 2004, on the occasion of the rubens year, an exhibition of drawings by
rubens was held, as well as a well-received exhibit dedicated to books entitled ‘fully booked’,

     kbc and microﬁnance:
     the belgian raiffeisen foundation and incoﬁn
     2005 has been designated the international year of microcredit by the un. against this back-
     ground, it is useful to highlight kbc’s initiatives regarding microﬁnance.

     the belgian raiffeisen foundation (brs) was established in 1992 to serve as a
     conduit for development co-operation. currently under the auspices of cera, a
     co-operative ﬁnancial group and a reference shareholder of kbc, its mission is
     twofold: to collaborate with microﬁnance institutions in the developing world,
52   by offering ﬁnancial assistance and training and consultancy in banking and
     insurance matters based on the co-operative movement, and to raise aware-
     ness in belgium through various communication channels about brs’ efforts
     to help eradicate poverty in the third world.
     kbc has played a special role in brs ever since its foundation, not only due to its historical and
     ﬁnancial link to cera, but also via the support of kbc staff. indeed, the ‘kbc steunt brs’ (kbc
     supports brs) group is open to all current and retired kbc employees, enabling them to take
     active part in brs’ sustainable microﬁnance projects in africa, latin america and asia, as well
     as in fund-raising and other campaigns in belgium to promote north-south dialogue at the
     grassroots level. the ict division at kbc deserves special mention as it launched ict4brs on
     1 january 2005, an initiative involving 22 ict volunteers who will offer it-related assistance to
     brs projects, including supplying/installing it hardware and software and providing it exper-
     tise to ngos working with brs. (cf. www.cera.be/brs)

     kbc is also a shareholder in incoﬁn, a belgian investment company founded
     as a ‘co-operative association with a social purpose’. incoﬁn invests in and
     provides know-how to microcompanies, smes and microﬁnance institutions
     in the developing world in order to support sustainable and proﬁtable entre-
     preneurship. last december, kbc helped to set up the impulse microﬁnance
     investment fund with incoﬁn and three other partners. half of the starting
     capital of 5 million euros came from kbc (the largest contributor); the fund’s shares are being
     offered for private placement until the end of 2005 for a targeted sum of 20 million euros. this
     is the ﬁrst private-investment fund of its kind in belgium. the closed-end fund will have a life of
     12 years and aims to earn both a ﬁnancial and a social return (‘double bottom line’), investing in
     commercially viable microﬁnance institutions and improving the accessibility of lending facilities
     for low-income entrepreneurs. moreover, it aims to serve as a bridge between capital markets
     of the industrialized world and emerging markets in less developed countries. on account of
     these objectives, the fund has been awarded the 2005 international year of microcredit label by
     the united nations capital development fund (uncdf). (cf. www.incoﬁn.be)

8 future ambitions in the ﬁeld of csr
                                                                                                    53

general

• review and draft further guidelines and performance indicators for all areas of csr which can
  be applied throughout the group, particularly in kbc’s central and eastern european entities,
  in order to increase the scope and facilitate transparency in reporting.
• review procedures for assurance and veriﬁcation of csr reporting methodology.



corporate governance

• draft a corporate governance charter for publication on kbc’s web site.



business ethics

• within the context of un’s 2005 year of microcredit, kbc is going one step further by helping
  the belgian raiffeisen foundation set up ‘microinsurance’ initiatives.



environment

• continue efforts to reduce paper consumption and other wastes, as well as make adjustments
  to energy use and business travel to cut back greenhouse gas emissions.
• improve methods for data capture and expand scope.
• continue further implementation of an environmental management system with the objective
  of achieving iso 14001 certiﬁcation at kbc’s head ofﬁce in brussels.



community

• explore synergy and partnership opportunities between kbc’s belgian and central and eastern
  european entities in the areas of philanthropic activities and socio-cultural sponsorship.
• involve more kbc staff members in the safety and prevention campaigns.
• in 2006, kbc plans to launch a project relating to the conservation of antwerp’s urban herit-
  age to coincide with the 75th anniversary of kbc’s boerentoren building (the ﬁrst skyscraper in
  antwerp) that will involve the city’s inhabitants.

     reporting guidelines and index

     this report is primarily based on the global reporting initiative (gri) guidelines 32, as we feel that
     these standards, though not compulsory, provide the necessary structure to ensure transparency
     and clarity, as well as comparability over time. the gri index below enables a quick look-up of
     the relevant indicators that are covered herein. additionally, in-house environmental performance
     has been measured and presented according to the vfu indicators 33, which are increasingly be-
     ing applied within the ﬁnancial sector to complement the gri principles.



54   vision and strategy                                           page     policies and management systems                       page
     1.1 vision and strategy                                        4, 8    3.13 explanation of precautionary approach 17-19, 22, 23
     1.2 ceo statement                                                 4    3.14 externally-developed voluntary charters
                                                                                  (equator principles)                 23, appendix iii
     proﬁle                                                                 3.15 principal memberships                                8
     2.1 name of reporting organisation                                 8   3.16 policies for impact                                 nr
     2.2 products and/or services                                       8   3.17 managing indirect impact      17-19, 24, 27-28, 29-31,
     2.3 operational structure                               6, 7, 11, 12                                                   31-2, 37-40
     2.4 organization structure                                    11, 12   3.18 decisions during the reporting period               nr
     2.5 countries located                                           6, 8   3.19 pertaining to 3p performance         22, 27, 32-33, 37,
     2.6 nature of ownership                                           11                                                         38-39
     2.7 nature of markets served                                       8   3.20 status of certiﬁcation                              nr
     2.8 organization scale                               6, appendix i
                                                                            performance indicators
     2.9 stakeholders                                5, 8, 9, 13, 23, 31
                                                                            economic indicators
     2.10 contact person(s) for the report           back page (cover)
                                                                            ec 1 net sales                                           6
     2.11 reporting period                                              6
                                                                            ec 2 geographic breakdown of markets                     6
     2.12 previous report                                           nr34
                                                                            ec 3 procurement spending                              nr
     2.13 boundaries of report                                          6
                                                                            ec 4 percentage of contracts paid
     2.14 organization changes                                        nr         in accordance with agreed terms                   nr
     2.15 joint ventures                                              nr    ec 5 total staff costs                  6, 7, appendix i b
     2.16 re-statements of information                                nr    ec 6 distributions         in annual report pp. 2 and 159
     2.17 gri principles applied                                       54        to capital providers
     2.18 criteria/deﬁnitions used                                     54   ec 7 change in retained earnings                       nr
     2.19 measurement methods changes                                 nr    ec 8 taxes                                   appendix i a
     2.20 policies and internal practices                             nr    ec 9 subsidies received                                nr
     2.21 independent assurance                                       nr    ec 10 donations to community                           49
     2.22 additional information                     back page (cover)
                                                                            environmental indicators
     structure and governance                                               en 1 total material use other than water              41, 42
     3.1 governance structure                          12-17                en 2 recycled materials                               42-43
     3.2 independence of board members             12, 15-17                en 3 direct energy use                                41, 42
     3.3 expertise of board members            12, 13, 15-17                en 4 indirect energy use                                 nr
     3.4 board-level processes                         17-19                en 5 total water use                                  41, 43
     3.5 executive compensation                       14, 15                en 6 land in biodiversity-rich habitats                  nr
     3.6 key individuals                               16-19                en 7 impact on biodiversity                              nr
     3.7 mission and values statement 5, 21, 38, appendix ii                en 8 greenhouse gas emissions                         41, 42
     3.8 shareholders’ mechanisms                        nr                 en 9 use and emissions of ozone-depleting
                                                                                 substances                                          nr
     stakeholder engagement                                                 en 10 nox, sox air emissions                             nr
     3.9 major stakeholders             5, 8, 23-24, 27, 47, 49             en 11 total amount of waste                           41, 43
     3.10 approaches to stakeholders 23-24, 27-28,30, 31-32,                en 12 signiﬁcant discharges to water by type             nr
                                                                            en 13 signiﬁcant spills of chemicals etc.                nr
                                                 47-48, 49-50
                                                                            en 14 environmental impact of principal
     3.11 information from stakeholders                     nr
                                                                                  products and services                              nr
     3.12 use of information                                 24
                                                                            en 15 percentage of the weight of products
                                                                                  sold that is reclaimable                           nr
                                                                            en 16 incidents of non-compliance                        nr
                                                                            en 34 signiﬁcant environmental impacts
     32 cf. www.globalreporting.org
     33 outlined in ‘vfu indicators 2005: internal environmental
                                                                                 of transportation used for logistical purposes   41, 42
     performance indicators for the financial industry’, available at
     www.epiﬁnance.com. see p. 40-41.
     34 nr = not reported

social performance indicators                       page     financial services sector supplement                           55
labour practices                                             social performance                                    page
la 1 breakdown of workforce      6-7, 27, 30, appendix i b   csr management
la 2 net employment                       27, appendix i b   csr 1csr policy                                  appendix ii
la 3 percentage employees by independent                     csr 2csr organisation                                     19
     trade union organisations                        nr     csr 3csr audits                                          nr
la 4 labour/management relations                   31-32     csr 4management of sensitive issues                   22-24
la 5 occupational accidents                            34    csr 5non-compliance                                      nr
la 6 health and safety committees                      33    csr 6stakeholder dialogue        23-24, 31-32, 47-48, 49-50
la 7 absentee rates                                    28    internal social performance
la 8 policies or programmes on hiv/aids               nr     int 1 internal csr policy                             27-34
la 9 training per employee                             33    int 2 staff turnover and job creation                     29
la 10 diversity programs                              nr     int 3 employee satisfaction                           27-28
la 11 diversity ratios                             27, 30    int 4 senior management remuneration                      15
                                                             int 5 bonuses fostering sustainable success              nr
human rights                                                 int 6 female/male salary ratio                            29
hr 1 human rights guidelines                           nr    int 7 employee proﬁle                       27, appendix i b
hr 2 human rights impact                               nr    performance to society
hr 3 human rights performance                          nr    soc 1 charitable contributions                    49, 50-51
hr 4 non-discrimination                                31    soc 2 economic value-added                               nr
hr 5 freedom of association policy                     31    suppliers
hr 6 child labour                                      31    sup 1 screening of major suppliers                        40
hr 7 forced and compulsory labour                      31    sup 2 supplier satisfaction                              nr
                                                             retail banking
society                                                      rb 1 retail banking policy        22-23, 47-48, appendix iii
so 1 impact on communities                             49    rb 2 lending proﬁle                                      nr
so 2 bribery and corruption                            21    rb 3 lending with high social beneﬁt                      52
so 3 political contributions                           21    investment banking
                                                             ib 1 investment policy                                    23
product responsibility                                       ib 2 customer proﬁle                                     nr
pr 1 policy preserving customer health and safety      nr    ib 3 transactions with high social beneﬁt                nr
pr 2 product information and labelling                 nr    asset management
pr 3 respect for privacy                               22    am 1 asset management policy                          23-24
                                                             am 2 assets under management
                                                                    with high social beneﬁt                            48
                                                             am 3 sri-oriented shareholder activity                23-24
                                                             insurance
                                                             ins 1 underwriting policy                                nr
                                                             ins 2 customer proﬁle                                    nr
                                                             ins 3 customer complaints                                 47
                                                             ins 4 insurance with high social beneﬁt               47, 50

     appendices

     appendix i: general kbc information

     a. groupwide ﬁnancial results – full-year 2004 and half-year 2005

     the information below is provided in more detail in kbc group’s 2005 half-year report.

     group income statement
56
      (in millions of eur)                                    fy 2004 35                1h 2005
      net interest income                                          3 833                      2 122
      gross earned premium, insurance                              5 158                      1 707
      dividend income                                                231                        169
      net gains from ﬁnancial instruments at fair value              725                        225
      net realised gains from available for sale assets              503                        265
      net fee and commission income                                1 404                        839
      other income                                                   479                        333
      gross income                                                12 333                  5 660
      operating expenses                                          -4 944                  -2 313
      impairments                                                   -365                      -57
         - on loans and receivables                                 -198                     -34
         - on available-for-sale assets                             -150                      -16
         - on goodwill                                                  0                      -7
         - other                                                      -17                       0
      gross technical charges, insurance                          -4 633                  -1 464
      ceded reinsurance result                                       -68                      -33
      share in results, associated companies                           22                      33
      proﬁt before taxes                                          2 345                   1 826
      income tax expense                                            -537                      -469
      minority interests                                            -193                      -104
      net proﬁt                                                    1 615                  1 253




     35 pro forma ﬁgures (excl. ias 32/39 and ifrs 4)

group balance sheet

 in millions of eur                                                               fy 200436       1h 2005
 cash and balances with central banks                                                  1 553        1 692
 treasury bills and other bills eligible for rediscounting with central banks          8 078        6 026
 loans and advances to banks                                                          38 463       46 885
 loans and advances to customers                                                     111 177      108 704
 securities                                                                           98 862      111 913
 derivative ﬁnancial instruments                                                      15 376       18 952
 investment property                                                                     169          293
 reinsurers’ share in technical provisions, insurance                                    258          273
 accrued income                                                                        3 504        2 941   57
 other assets                                                                          2 435        2 177
 tax assets                                                                              671          888
 investments in associated companies                                                   1 228        1 131
 goodwill and other intangible ﬁxed assets                                             1 086        1 386
 property and equipment                                                                2 300        2 295
 total assets                                                                       285 163       305 557
 deposits from banks                                                                  55 083       55 423
 deposits from customers and debt securities                                         157 712      167 807
 derivative ﬁnancial instruments                                                      17 728       23 521
 gross technical provisions                                                           13 259       13 920
 liabilities under investment contracts                                                3 931        4 715
 accrued expense                                                                       2 743        3 563
 other liabilities                                                                    12 588       11 743
 tax liabilities                                                                         672        1 401
 provisions for risks and charges                                                        580          555
 subordinated liabilities                                                              6 768        6 853
 total liabilities                                                                  271 064       289 500
 total equity                                                                         14 099       16 058
       - parent shareholders’ equity                                                  12 328       14 382
       - minority interests                                                            1 771        1 675
 total liabilities + equity                                                         285 163       305 557



key ratios

                                                                                fy 200437      1h 2005
 cost ratio, banking and asset management                                               65%          57%
 combined ratio, non-life insurance                                                     95%          94%
 solvency ratio, banking (tier 1), end of period                                      10.0%         9.6%
 solvency ratio, insurance, end of period (ifrs 2005)                                  347%         397%
 return on equity                                                                       14%          20%




36 pro forma ﬁgures (excl. ias 32/39 and ifrs 4)
37 idem.

     b. groupwide stafﬁng levels (as at year-end)

     number of staff worldwide (in ftes*, except where noted)
                                                                                     2003               2004              change
      total                                                                          50 475             46 554            -7.8%
      total, excluding the reduction stemming from the sale of kredyt bank           50 475             48 578            -3.8%
      subsidiaries
      average number of persons employed                                             46 643             47 086            0.9%
      staff and pension charges (in thousands of eur)                                2 233 912          2 482 707         11.1%
      breakdown by activity
58    banking                                                                        40 141             36 021            -10.3%
      insurance                                                                      7 883              7 735             -1.9%
      asset management                                                               287                317               10.6%
      holding-company activities                                                     2 164              2 481             14.6%
      breakdown by country/region
      belgium                                                                        19 330             18 576            -3.9%
      central europe                                                                 28 954             25 586            -11.6%
      rest of the world                                                              2 191              2 393             9.2%

     * kbc bank, kbc insurance and the kbc bank and insurance holding company, including the principal subsidiaries in which they have a
     majority participation on 31 december 2004. figures for the asset management companies of the central european banking subsidiaries
     are included in the ﬁgures for the banking business. the ﬁgures do not include the distribution network of the insurance companies. the
     ﬁgures for 2003 have been revised slightly retroactively.

appendix ii: kbc’s principles for socially responsible business

kbc aims through its activities to contribute to the economic, social and ecological advancement
of the communities it serves. accordingly, it conducts its activities in compliance with both the
letter and the spirit of prevailing laws and regulations. it also takes account of changing societal
norms, norms which generally foreshadow subsequent legislation.
for kbc, a primary concern is to meet the needs and safeguard the interests of its customers,
its shareholders, its employees and the communities in which it operates. in its dealings with
these stakeholders, kbc observes principles of fairness, reasonableness, openness, transparency
and discretion, whilst ensuring privacy. these principles are incorporated into a speciﬁc code of
conduct which governs all kbc’s activities, but especially its lending and asset management busi-      59
nesses, as well as its human resources and facility management projects.
kbc bank has a social responsibility to meet its customers’ borrowing requirements at reason-
able, market-conform rates of interest which compensate it for the credit risk it takes and other
lending-related expenses. before granting any credit, kbc will conduct a preliminary analysis
not only of the associated, purely ﬁnancial and economic aspects of the credit, but also of the
relevant social and ecological aspects. this analysis makes it possible, among other things, to
offer customers the credits and credit products that are best suited to their needs and ﬁnancial
resources.
recommendations and decisions for asset management purposes are always formulated solely
with the customer in mind and in keeping with a general investment strategy that is based on a
thorough analysis of all available macro-economic, sectoral and company information, as well as
the risk proﬁle of the customer concerned and/or of the relevant investment products. the cus-
tomer’s risk proﬁle is determined with all due care in consultation with the customer and is ad-
justed where necessary to take account of his or her changing ﬁnancial, social and philosophical
position. to ensure it can satisfy the broadest possible range of investment preferences, the bank
develops investment products with diverse risk proﬁles and features, including those that reﬂect
sustainable and ethical investment principles. to support its investment policy in this regard, kbc
asset management has set up its own research team to screen the sustainability of the policies
pursued by various companies and countries (with a view to investing in government bonds). kbc
asset management is assisted in this endeavour by an external advisory board. the results of this
‘ethical screening’ are used by kbc asset management not only in the management of its ethical
funds, but are to produce a semi-annual publication (available at: http://www.kbcam.be/sustaina-
bleinvestment/).

where insurance is concerned, kbc will, wherever the competitive room to manoeuvre allows,
apply appropriate techniques to counter the ‘moral hazard’ dilemma (i.e., a tendency of persons
to exhibit riskier behaviour once insurance is taken out). kbc will ensure that its products encour-
age socially desirable or acceptable behaviour where risk-taking is concerned.

kbc is aware that in many cases, particularly in the event of sickness, disability or death, money
cannot compensate for pain and suffering. consequently, it feels that it has a social duty to try
and preclude such pain and suffering where possible by means of an accident-prevention policy.
in addition, where needed, kbc furnishes personal and professional assistance to accident vic-
tims, guiding them in their search for the best way to return to mental and/or physical health.

kbc will make an effort to include in certain products an explicit element of solidarity, which
should make it possible to provide some measure of insurance for risks which would not normally
be insurable. kbc is a ﬁrm believer in the principle that segmentation should not lead to discrimi-
nation; i.e. it should never lead to large groups of prospective policy-holders being shut out on

     the basis of criteria they have no control over.

     in its dealings with personnel, kbc pursues an equal opportunity policy and resolutely avoids any
     form of discrimination. the recruitment, selection, promotion and remuneration of its employees
     occurs on the basis of each individual’s merits, such as his or her knowledge and skill, develop-
     ment potential, added value and the responsibilities he or she shoulders.
     kbc aims to forge a lasting working relationship with its employees, one characterized by balance
     between the individual’s professional commitment which contributes to the company’s capabili-
     ties and his or her personal development in the broadest sense of the word.

60   to achieve this aim:
     • kbc offers a competitive pay package, providing employees with a fair pay for their work and
       their contribution to the company’s results;
     • kbc seeks to be a caring employer, even when problems arise;
     • kbc endeavours to enable employees to balance their professional and private lives and conse-
       quently takes the requisite initiatives with regard to ﬂexible working arrangements, employee
       mobility and social schemes;
     • kbc provides sound career guidance and top-quality training, so that employees are given
       adequate opportunities to further their careers and develop their skills;
     • kbc provides its employees with an attractive working environment and the necessary resourc-
       es to be able to perform their job efﬁciently;
     • kbc seeks to employ people in its personnel department who provide prompt, customer-
       friendly and professional service.

     kbc also aims to provide clear, transparent information and considers good social dialogue as a
     basic building block in its corporate culture. for this reason, kbc promotes the efﬁcient and direct
     ﬂow of information throughout the organization via such tools as an intranet. all this is intended
     to nurture and put into practice the values that kbc and its employees ﬁnd important. these
     values are primarily: openness and honesty in dealings with one another, a mutual respect and
     collaboration on projects, which is characterized by a spirit of helpfulness and professionalism.

     kbc is aware that the rational use of natural resources – even for a service-providing, informa-
     tion-processing enterprise – can help to alleviate the burden on the environment.
     it will therefore ensure that its resources are as ecologically sound and used as rationally as possi-
     ble, whether this concerns water and energy use, the consumption of products, waste-prevention
     and –processing or transportation.
     kbc endorses sustainable building principles and in providing accommodation for its workforce
     takes account of any possible environmental impact this may have, as well as of employee com-
     fort and efﬁciency.
     it will require its suppliers of products and services to adopt a similar approach, based on full
     compliance with the relevant laws and the implementation of environmental conservation sys-
     tems in keeping with the eco-management and audit scheme (emas) framework. fairness will
     be a feature of all of kbc’s dealings with its suppliers.

     kbc makes a commitment to the communities in which it operates, not only by funding social,
     cultural or scientiﬁc initiatives, but also by making competencies or facilities, for instance, avail-
     able where needed. in this way, kbc aims not only to help enhance the prosperity of the com-
     munities it serves, but also to improve their well-being. kbc encourages its employees to become
     socially involved.

appendix iii: equator principles

on 26 january 2004, kbc ofﬁcially adopted the equator principles, a set of voluntary guidelines
developed to address environmental and social issues that may arise in ﬁnancing large-scale
projects. these guidelines are based on well-established ifc and world bank policies and guide-
lines. the adoption of the equator principles reinforces kbc’s longstanding commitment to envi-
ronmental and social responsibility in all its activities, both domestically and internationally. the
principles were launched by a number of banks in june 2003. today, over 30 ﬁnancial institutions
have adopted the principles.

applying the principles                                                                                                                         61
at kbc, the equator principles apply equally to kbc’s project ﬁnance business, which is handled
by 40 professionals out of six centres (dublin, london, brussels, new york, hong kong and
sydney) and to the project ﬁnance units of its four main subsidiaries (k&h, csob, kredyt bank
and iib).

by adopting these principles, kbc seeks to ensure that the projects it ﬁnances are developed and
operated in a manner that is socially responsible and reﬂect sound environmental management
practices. the focus is on transactions within the infrastructure, energy (power, renewables and
oil & gas) and telecommunication sectors. as an ‘equator bank’, kbc will not provide loans to
projects where the borrower will not or is unable to comply with kbc’s environmental and social
policies and processes.

kbc applies the equator principles to all of its project ﬁnance activities around the world that
entail transactions with a capital cost above 50 million usd. in accordance with the parameters of
the equator principles, the principles themselves do not need to be applied to transactions below
this threshold. however, kbc requires each loan ofﬁcer to analyse any such project with a high
level of social and environmental vigilance.

kbc is usually involved in project-ﬁnance transactions either as an arranging bank or as a mem-
ber of a bank syndicate. irrespective of the position of non-equator banks in the syndicate, kbc
requires compliance with the principles. kbc always sees to it that adherence to the equator
principles is included in any term sheet submitted to a borrower or project sponsor. special atten-
tion is also given to the loan documentation process in order to make sure that the appropriate
environmental and social clauses are incorporated. when kbc appoints legal advisers, we request
them to verify that the loan documentation requires the borrower to maintain compliance with
the environmental management plan (emp) and the reporting of any material breaches. these are
standard terms and conditions for all our project ﬁnance transactions.

implementation and training
today, the equator principles are fully implemented at kbc. speciﬁc equator principles procedures
have been developed and incorporated in the credit procedural manual, to be applied to any
project exceeding 50 million usd. it should be noted that such projects are initially categorized by
the project ﬁnance ofﬁcer as either ‘a’ ‘b’ or ‘c’, and is then reviewed by the credit department.38
the ﬁnal decision on the project category is taken by the credit committee. moreover, when kbc
works with an independent technical adviser, we ensure that the scope of the adviser’s tasks

38 category a: projects with signiﬁcant adverse environmental and social impacts which are sensitive, diverse or unprecedented
   category b: projects with (less) adverse environmental and social impacts which are site-speciﬁc, reversible and susceptible to mitigation
   category c: projects with little or no environmental impact.

     includes the requirement to provide us with expert assessment on environmental and/or social
     considerations regarding the project, including feedback with respect to the potential environ-
     mental or social impacts, the environmental management plan and overall compliance of the
     project with the equator principles. the reasons for categorization are documented during this
     process. in accordance with the parameters of the principles, kbc always requires an environmen-
     tal impact assessment to be drawn up for projects classiﬁed as ‘a’ or ‘b’.

     kbc has appointed a senior manager within the project finance department as co-ordinator
     responsible for all equator bank matters. during the course of 2004, all project ﬁnance ofﬁcers
     were trained on how to apply the equator principles. furthermore, a wider group of executives,
62   including credit ofﬁcers and relationship managers, were briefed on the principles.

     projects in 2004
     the table below provides the number and share of the transactions which were approved
     and concluded by kbc after adoption of the principles, i.e. the period between february and
     december 2004.

      2004 (feb. to dec.)                       number of transactions       as % of 2004 project-ﬁnance
                                                                                         lending volume
      category a                                                      1                              3%
      category b                                                      9                             65%
      category c                                                      6                             32%

     in the above table, the ‘a’ category project represents one transaction in the oil & gas sector. the
     ‘b’ category projects comprise projects in the energy (mainly power plants) and infrastructure
     sectors (mainly toll roads in europe). the ‘c’ category projects represent the ﬁnancing of wind
     farms and projects within the infrastructure sector involving light construction works. if the reﬁ-
     nancings of existing assets (involving no expansion or construction) - which kbc categorizes as c
     - were included in the above statistics, the number of c projects would rise to 16.
     the aggregate development cost of the above projects is approximately 13 billion euros (exclud-
     ing reﬁnancings).

     although a number of transactions were rejected in 2004, none of these was primarily due to
     environmental or social concerns. any transaction that does not meet or cannot be made to
     comply with the equator principles is turned down without ﬁrst being submitted for approval to
     the credit committee.

     last but not least, the environmental and social standards were improved in at least one project
     through the adoption of the equator principles.
     (cf. www.equator-principles.com/)

appendix iv: sri funds managed by kbc asset management




open-ended bond, cash or mixed funds                                                                                         63
fund                                    description
kbc institutional fund ethical euro     invests in european government bonds issued by sustainable and socially re-
bonds (2002)                            sponsible countries and companies. the sustainability screening is carried out by
                                        kbc am’s sri team, with advice and checks by an independent advisory body of
                                        experts. for both institutional and private investors.
kbc institutional fund global ethical   invests in international bonds and shares issued by sustainable and socially
defensive 1 (2002)                      responsible entities. the screening is carried out by kbc am’s sri team, with
                                        advice and checks by an independent advisory body of experts. for both institu-
                                        tional and private investors.
kbc institutional cash year-end         invests in cash or other liquid assets of other euro-zone banks speciﬁcally geared
(2004)                                  towards the end of the year in which the remaining term to maturity is no more
                                        than 1 year. the banks are screened by kbc am’s sri team, with advice and
                                        checks by an independent advisory body of experts.
open-ended equity funds
fund                                    description
kbc eco fund world (1992)               invests in an international selection companies that make a real effort to protect
                                        the environment. audit and monitoring are carried out by an independent expert
                                        ‘environmental advisory council’. the oldest investment fund in belgium based
                                        on ecological criteria.
kbc eco fund water (2000)               invests in companies active in water distribution and treatment.
kbc eco fund alternative energy         invests in companies active in the ﬁeld of alternative (and therefore ‘clean’)
(2000)                                  energy.
kbc eco fund ethical equity euroland invests in sustainable companies in the euro zone. the sustainability screening
(2001)                               is carried out by kbc am’s sri team, with advice and checks by an independent
                                     advisory body of experts.
kbc institutional fund ethical euro     invests in european shares of sustainable companies. the sustainability screening
equities (2000)                         is carried out by kbc am’s sri team, with advice and checks by an independent
                                        advisory body of experts.
in.flanders index fund                  invests in the 60 largest employers in flanders. the fund is a model for innova-
                                        tive remuneration arrangements: it allows options to be written on this fund,
                                        which can then be distributed to employees of the social proﬁt sector and
                                        unlisted companies.

64    closed-ended or ‘click’ funds
      fund                                        description
      kbc click ethiclick 1 (2000)                invests in a basket of 16 shares of sustainable and socially responsible compa-
                                                  nies.
      kbc click solidarity 1 kom op tegen         invests in a basket of 16 shares of sustainable and socially responsible compa-
      kanker (2001)*                              nies. 3% of any increase in the return is transferred to the kom op tegen kanker
                                                  campaign supporting the research and prevention of cancer. the ﬁrst ethical
                                                  fund to be launched in belgium with a solidarity aspect.
      kbc click solidarity 2 levenslijn-          invests in a basket of 16 shares of sustainable and socially responsible compa-
      kinderfonds (2002)                          nies. 3% of any increase in the return is transferred to the levenslijn-kinderfonds
                                                  organization (promoting road safety for children).
      kbc click solidarity 3 kom op tegen         same as kbc click solidarity 1 kom op tegen kanker
      kanker (2003)
      kbc equimax crc protection fund             invests in a basket of 30 shares of sustainable and socially responsible com-
      1 (2005)                                    panies. the sustainability screening is carried out by kbc am’s sri team, with
                                                  advice and checks by an independent advisory body of experts.

     (cf. http://www.kbcam.be/sustainableinvestment/)

     * the kbc click solidarity 1 kom op tegen kanker fund bears the ethibel excellence label.39 the
     ethibel excellence label is registered in 15 countries of the european union and is a guarantee that
     investments are being made in sustainable companies. the label indicates that the investment fund
     is exclusively composed of companies selected on the basis of ethibel’s comprehensive research and
     evaluation model.
     for more information on ethibel and the ethibel excellence label, surf to www.ethibel.org.




     39 cf. p. 48 (boxed text on sri funds)

65

we want to hear from you!
please send us your feedback regarding this report
and any suggestions for improvement to:

marina kanamori
csr communications ofﬁcer
investor relations ofﬁce (see)
2 havenlaan
b-1080 brussels
belgium
investor.relations@kbc.com




this report refers to non-kbc web sites.
kbc is not liable for any damages arising from the use of these sites.

an electronic version of this report is available for consultation and download
in either html or pdf formats at www.kbc.com.
pdf versions may also be requested by e-mailing
investor.relations@kbc.com, mentioning ‘2004 csr report’ in the subject line.

other information available for download at www.kbc.com:
kbc’s annual and interim reports
kbc’s press releases
kbc presentations


publisher: kbc group nv
registered ofﬁce: kbc group nv – 2 havenlaan – 1080 brussels – belgium
rlp 0403 227 515 – bank account 734-0051374-70 – kbc bank nv, bfic registration no. 26 256. kbc insurance nv, company
authorized for all classes of insurance under code number 0014 (royal decree, 4 july 1979, belgian ofﬁcial gazette, 14 july 1979)


printed on ecf paper.
