     king county                   2011 annual report of
toward a sustainable, prosperous   king county’s climate change,
                                   energy, green building, and
                                   environmental purchasing programs




                                                              june 2012

alternative formats available
206-263-6500 tty relay: 711

     printed on recycled paper. please recycle.
      file: 120626_2468sustainrpt.indd wgab
   kcit gis, visual communications and web unit

toward a sustainable, prosperous king county

        2011 annual report of king county’s
        climate change, energy, green building, and environmental purchasing programs


    table of contents
    executive summary.........................................................................2

                              climate
                              change                                energy
                              program                               program


                             7                                     13
                              green                                 environmental
                              building                              purchasing
                              program                               program


                             19                                     26
    project profiles: solid waste recycling and transfer station........ 32
                      metropool.......................................................... 34
                      brightwater......................................................... 36

    appendix:             climate change cost benefit............................. 38




            kingcounty.gov/climate

executive summary

          toward a sustainable, prosperous king county
          2011 annual report of king county’s
          climate change, energy, green building, and environmental purchasing programs



      background
      the programs described in this report – climate change, energy, green building and
      environmental purchasing – help to meet core objectives of the king county strategic
      plan to reduce climate pollution, prepare for the impacts of climate change, reduce
      the environmental footprint of government operations, and improve the financial
      sustainability of county government.

      king county provides environmentally sustainable services such as transit, farm and
      forest land protection, salmon recovery, flood control, recycling, parks and regional
      trails. as highlighted in this report, the county’s role extends to climate change
      response, energy efficiency and renewable energy, green building and sustainable
      development and environmental purchasing.

      this report, prepared in accordance with king county code 18.50.010, provides a
      single point of reference for the public and decision makers about progress towards
      related environmental goals, challenges and opportunities with these programs, and
      priorities looking forward.


      2011 key accomplishments
      the following are examples of major 2011 accomplishments in king county’s
      climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs.
      information about other 2011 project and program highlights that support the county’s
      environmental sustainability goals can be found throughout this report.

       • king county metro provided transit service to more than 100 million passengers,
         who traveled more than 543 million miles. transit reduces communitywide
         greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by replacing private vehicle trips, reducing traffic
         congestion and supporting efficient land use.

       • king county parks and the water and land resources division continued to
         acquire, protect, restore and provide stewardship for natural lands that now include
         more than 26,000 acres. forests on these lands reduce the severity of local climate
         change impacts and naturally sequester carbon dioxide.

       • the facilities management division completed energy efficiency improvements
         that have resulted in a 19 percent reduction from 2007 levels.


      2        toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                  2011 annual report

• metro transit saved nearly 80,000 gallons of fuel by replacing older diesel buses with
  more energy efficient hybrid buses.

• king county agencies worked on 10 leadership in energy and environmental design
  (leed) projects, 202 projects using the sustainable infrastructure scorecard, and
  diverted from the landfill an average of 80 percent of construction and demolition
  material generated by these projects.

• green building tools and training were provided to project managers, including the
  green operations and maintenance manual and training in life cycle cost assessment.

• king county purchased more than $60 million of environmentally preferable
  products, with cost and durability savings of more than $1.5 million, compared to
  conventional products.

• county government’s electronic waste is now recycled only through e-steward-certified
  vendors, ensuring sustainable practices for more than 68,000 pounds of electronic
  equipment, almost 7,000 pounds of cathode ray tube monitors and 6,300 pounds
  of batteries.

• king county became the first local government in the nation to account for ghg
  emissions associated with the local consumption of goods and services, such as food
  and electronics.



2011 performance snapshot
it is important to look at the county’s 2011 accomplishments in the context of broader
performance information. this includes data about greenhouse gas emissions, energy
usage, and renewable energy at both the community level and from government operations.
additional performance information about green building and environmental purchasing is
included in these chapters of the report.

government operations
• normalized facility energy use related to king county government operations was
  reduced by 5.2 percent between 2007 and 2011, and king county is on track to meeting
  its 10 percent normalized energy use reduction target by 2012.

• 2011 normalized energy use by county vehicles ranged from 0.6 percent below to 6.2
  percent above 2007 levels, depending on the type of normalization method used. the
  2010 king county energy plan target is to achieve a 10 percent normalized net reduction
  in energy use by county vehicles by 2015. the increased energy usage by county
  vehicles is largely attributed to increasing transit service, which has a net positive impact
  on community level energy usage.




toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                   2011 annual report            3

                                                 • king county government used, procured or produced approximately 23 percent of
                                                   its energy from renewable sources in 2011. the county is expected to exceed its 50
                                                   percent renewable energy target in 2012 once the cedar hills regional landfill gas
                                                   processing plant, run by bioenergy washington, and a west point wastewater treatment
                                                   electricity co-generation project are fully operational.

                                                 • king county’s executive recommended 2012 comprehensive plan includes updated
                                                   operational greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets including to reduce emissions
                                                   by at least 15 percent below 2007 levels by 2015. between 2007 and 2011, energy
                                                   related ghg emissions from non-transit sources such as buildings decreased by roughly
                                                   4 percent. however, energy related emissions from overall government operations,
                                                   including transit, increased 1 percent between 2007 and 2011. significant additional
                                                   action will be required to achieve the 2015 target.

                                                 community level
                                                 • in the 2008 king county comprehensive plan, king county adopted the goal to, in
                                                   collaboration with other local governments and partners, reduce countywide emissions
                                                   by 80 percent below 2007 levels by 2050. between 2003 and 2008, local sources of per-
                                                   person greenhouse gas emissions decreased slightly, largely due to reduced driving and
                                                   the increased vehicle fuel efficiency. however, overall, local sources of ghg emissions
                                                   increased 5.5 percent between 2003 and 2008 and the region is not on track to meet
                                                   king county’s long-term target (see bar graph below left).

                                                 • in 2012, for the first time, king county quantified performance information about
                                                   greenhouse gas emissions associated with consumption in king county, including
                                                   from production of goods, food and services imported from outside the region. these
                                                   emissions totaled 55 million metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent – more than twice
                                                   the local sources of emissions that occurred inside the county’s borders in 2008
                                                   (see pie chart below right).


                                                      king county community                          king county community
                                                         geographic based                              consumption based
                                                     greenhouse gas emissions                       greenhouse gas emissions
millions of metric tons of co2 equivalent




                                            25                                                     total: 55 million metric tons co2e

                                            20
                                                                                                                                  personal
                                                                                                          other                   transportation
                                            15
                                                                                                                            16%
                                                                                                                  21%
                                            10                                                                                          home
                                                                                                             8%                 13%     energy
                                                                                           construction
                                             5
                                                                                                              14%               14%
                                             0                                                                                        food
                                                        03                  08                    services              14%

                                                      transportation     industry                                       goods
                                                      buildings          other

                                                 4       toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                     2011 annual report

challenges and opportunities
king county has adopted and is striving to meet aggressive targets for ghg emissions
reductions, energy efficiency and renewable energy, green building and environmental
purchasing. achieving these goals will require up-front investments, which can be
challenging given the reality of tight budgets. at the same time, king county is working to
meet the needs of a growing population and has important priorities to maintain or expand
services, such as public transit, which can sometimes increase the county’s operational
environmental footprint.

despite these challenges, king county is committed to minimizing its environmental impacts
and supporting smart land use, transportation, green building and related efforts in the
region. in terms of government operations, the county is taking important steps to share
resources across agencies to support internal efforts – for example by sharing training,
technical expertise, and developing countywide approaches to implementing energy
efficiency projects and reinvesting energy and resource cost savings. at the community
scale, county actions can help continue and accelerate the recent trend of decreasing per
person sources of ghg emissions.

in addition to the challenge of achieving the county’s goals, the scale of related
environmental changes facing the region is daunting. climate change impacts such as
increasing river flooding, decreasing summer river flows and rising sea levels have the
potential to cause severe and costly impacts to public and private property, ecosystems and
public health.

these new impacts are challenging to plan and prepare for, but promising new
partnerships – for example through the king county-cities climate collaboration – are
indications that the region is stepping up. other new partnerships, for example through king
county’s community solar program, are the type of partnerships that will need to occur for
the region to meet its environmental goals.

additional exciting opportunities are emerging. in 2011 king county became the first
local government in the nation to account for ghg emissions associated with the
local consumption of goods and services, such as food and electronics. this more-
comprehensive picture of our environmental footprint quantifies – and helps king county
and its partners – target future climate solutions. for example, in 2012 the solid waste
division is implementing a “reducing wasted food” pilot project that could potentially serve
as a model for broader food-related efforts.

a key near-term challenge within the county’s energy program is to ensure that two
significant new renewable energy projects become fully operational in 2012: the cedar hills
regional landfill renewable energy project and the west point wastewater treatment plant
electricity co-generation project.




toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                   2011 annual report              5

advances in green building and sustainable infrastructure are tied to integrating sustainability
considerations into early phases of project planning and design, so that projects can
be developed to have a lower overall impact. even with future population growth, green
building practices can help curb emissions through renewable energy, energy and water
efficiency, sustainable material use, diverting demolition material, innovative and adaptable
design, promotion of alternative transportation, passive ventilation, daylighting and efficient
building envelopes. there is a good opportunity to further integrate early planning objectives
in the near term, as the green building and sustainable development ordinance will be
revised and updated in 2013.

it has become increasingly clear to environmental purchasing experts that it can be difficult
to assess the true environmental preferability of the diverse range of products the county
purchases. however, opportunities are expanding to help develop environmental standards
and certifications that not only inform the county’s purchases but also resident and
business choices.


looking forward
• king county will implement the 2012 climate motion, which outlined near-term actions
  to reduce ghg emissions, and complete development of a strategic climate action
  agenda to developed using the organizing framework of the king county strategic plan.

• king county will continue to partner with cities through the king county-cities climate
  collaboration and work with these and other regional partners through the growth
  management planning council to support development and adoption of regional ghg
  emissions reduction targets.

• the county will establish new mechanisms for assessing lifecycle energy and resource
  costs, financing the capital costs of efficiency investments, documenting savings and
  supporting reinvestment efforts.

• county divisions will prioritize adopting a green operations and maintenance manual
  to implement operation practices that will save money and reduce the county’s
  environmental footprint.

• the county will follow recommendations from the 2012 ghg emissions study on king
  county emissions as they relate to county purchasing of goods and services and
  implement targeted approaches to further reductions in ghg in purchasing.

• the county will update its environmental purchasing policy to align with overall
  environmental sustainability goals and other policies.




6       toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                     2011 annual report

  climate change program



background
human sources of climate pollution, such as carbon dioxide and methane, are causing
unprecedented and severe changes in global and local climate systems. this is the
collective opinion of the world’s leading scientists, including the national academies and the
intergovernmental panel on climate change.

in king county, decreasing mountain snowpack, increasing flooding, and rising sea levels
are all evidence that the climate system is changing and is causing significant impacts in the
region. the county faces significant environmental and economic challenges stemming from
climate change; these challenges include stressed and rapidly changing ecosystems, costly
impacts on public and private property and new public health risks.

king county executive dow constantine and the county council are leaders in responding
to these challenges. environmental sustainability is a key goal of king county, as identified
in the 2010 strategic plan. a key objective of this goal is to “reduce climate pollution
and prepare for the impacts of climate change on the environment, human health and
the economy.”

in support of this commitment, the county took action in 2011 and early 2012 to strengthen
its efforts to respond to climate change. efforts include unanimous adoption of the 2012
climate motion which outlines the county’s near-term commitments to help it meet long-
term climate goals, strengthening climate change-related policies as part of the 2012
comprehensive plan update, and beginning work on a new strategic climate action plan
that will focus and guide climate change-related priorities.


performance indicators
several performance indicators are tracking government and regional efforts to respond
to climate change. key indicators include king county community wide sources of ghg
emissions (see the executive summary), as well as the indicators presented in this section
focused on government sources of ghgs, “core” ghgs from buildings, vehicles and solid
waste, and local impacts of climate change.

king county government operations direct greenhouse gas emissions
the 2012 executive transmitted comprehensive plan includes a near-term goal that king
county reduce total ghg emissions from government operations, compared to a 2007
baseline, by at least 15 percent by 2015. preliminary data for 2011 indicates that overall
energy related ghg emissions from government operations are up roughly 1 percent since
2007. however, emissions from non-transit sources such as buildings have decreased by 4
percent since 2007. this reduction is a sign of progress and related to implementation of the
2010 energy plan.

toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                    2011 annual report              7

                                                                the overall rise in operational ghg emissions is largely attributed to increasing transit
                                                                service. ghg emissions from bus diesel usage account for more than half of all energy
                                                                related ghg emissions, and have increased by approximately 5 percent since 2007.
                                                                however, because transit reduces communitywide ghg emissions by replacing private
                                                                vehicle trips, reducing traffic congestion and supporting efficient land use and community
                                                                design, transit has a net beneficial impact on reducing community scale ghg emissions.
                                                                metro estimates that king county transit service reduced community emissions by more
                                                                than twice the direct emissions footprint of the transit vehicle fleet.


                                                                     king county
                                                            core greenhouse gas emissions
                                                                emissions from vehicles and buildings
                                                        20
            millions of metric tons of co2 equivalent




                                                                                                             king county annually tracks a core set of local,
                                                                                                             community scale ghg emissions from buildings,
                                                        15                                                   on road vehicles and solid waste. emissions rose
                                                                                                             roughly 4 percent since 2003, primarily a result of
                                                                                                             population growth. during this same period, per-
                                                        10                                                   person emissions declined roughly 4 percent.


                                                            5

                                                                                                                 transportation
                                                            0                                                    buildings
                                                                     2003          2008         2010



                                                                king county climate change impacts index
                                                                important climate change related shifts in king county’s climate and the physical
                                                                environment have been observed in recent years. for example, between 1962 and 2008 a
                                                                strong trend of decreasing summertime water in king county rivers was observed at all 10
                                                                long-term, unregulated, local river gaging stations. during this same period, there was also
                                                                some evidence that severe storms and floods were occurring more frequently. king county
                                                                is tracking the severity of a variety of climate change related impacts with its “king county
                                                                climate change impacts index.”


                                                                             king county flood, severe storm and coastal storm
                                                                                    related federally declared disasters
                                                        3
number of disasters




                                                        2

                                                        1


                                                        0
                                                            1964         1969        1974        1979        1984        1989         1994        1999         2004       2009
                                                                weather-related federally declared disasters in king county have been occurring more frequently over the last
                                                                decade, and are related to climate change-related risks such increasing flood impacts. note that the frequency of
                                                                natural disasters in king county is affected by many factors beyond climate change - such as where people live and
                                                                work and how prepared for storms they are.

                                                                8           toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                                 2011 annual report

2011 key accomplishments
reducing ghg emissions in county government operations
king county is reducing operational sources of ghg emissions by implementing its 2010
energy plan, the green building and sustainable development policy, and the environmental
purchasing program. see the following chapters of this report for 2011 accomplishments in
these focus areas.

reducing ghg emissions in the king county community as a whole
in addition to reducing its own operational environmental footprint, king county is taking
important action to support resident, business and local government efforts to reduce
climate pollution and prepare for the impacts of climate change:

transit
 • in 2011, king county metro provided transit service to more than 100 million
   passengers, who traveled more than 543 million miles. transit reduces communitywide
   ghg emissions by replacing private vehicle trips, reducing traffic congestion, and
   supporting efficient land use.

• after its first year of operation, the new bus rapid transit
  rapidride a line between federal way and tukwila delivered
  more than 30 percent additional daily bus rides than the regular
  metro route it replaced, while ridership on the rapidride b line
  between bellevue and redmond increased 10 percent in its first
  three months.

• king county partners with employers throughout the county
  to support their employee commute trip reduction programs.
                                                                         new rapidride bus
  between 2007 and 2011, commute trip reduction worksites
  in king county experienced a 7.1 percent reduction in “drive
  alone” rate that resulted in 2.2 million fewer solo vehicle
  trips annually.

bike, walk and van - alternative transportation options
 • parks’ 2011 enhancements of the regional trail system
   included redeveloping two miles of the burke-gilman trail
   through lake forest park, completing 1.2 miles of the east lake
   sammamish trail segment through redmond, and upgrading
   a segment of the foothills trail near enumclaw. based on
   bicycle and pedestrian counts at peak hours, it is estimated that
   more than 20 million trips are made annually on regional trails,
                                                                         newly redeveloped burke-gilman trail
   including an estimated five million trips along five key corridors
   directly managed by king county parks.




toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                   2011 annual report               9

                     • metro offered outreach, technology improvements and incentives to support use of
                       alternative transportation options, including the www.rideshareonline.com website,
                       which saw a 77 percent increase in active registrations. the inmotion program provided
                       direct alternative transportation outreach, encouragement and resources to an estimate
                       23,000 households, while the shift your commute program into gear trained 98 east
                       king county commute trip reduction coordinators on how to encourage and support
                       alternative transportation use at their worksites.

                     • public health – seattle & king county supported seven king county cities in adopting
                       policies to improve biking and walking for more than 359,000 residents through efforts
                       such as comprehensive bicycle and pedestrian plans and complete streets ordinances.
                       public health also partnered with school districts to implement “safe routes to school”
                       programs serving 124,000 king county students, and bicycle and pedestrian trainings
                       now completed for fourth- and fifth-grade students in five king county school districts.

                 recycling and waste reduction
                  • the solid waste division’s waste prevention and recycling program uses education,
                    incentives, pilot programs and partnerships to reduce the generation of waste and
                    to increase recycling. in 2010, about 832,000 tons of recyclable and compostable
                    materials were collected in king county, which is up 2 percent since 2009. recycling
                    helps reduce ghgs created by mining, farming or manufacturing new products. using
                    an environmental protection agency model, recycling in king county is estimated
                    to reduced ghg emissions by an estimated 1.62 million metric tons annually –
                    the equivalent of removing 280,000 passenger cars from the road.

                                       • an innovative example of improving recycling is the linkup program,
                                         which is working to expand markets for recyclable and reusable
                                         materials and eliminate market barriers such as a lack of recycling
                                         infrastructure and poor end-markets. in 2011, linkup focused
                                         on enhancing asphalt shingle, carpet and mattress recycling. for
                                         example, linkup hosted a mattress recycling summit that brought
                                         together partners to learn about mattress recycling opportunities.
                                         since mattress recycling became available in king county, mattresses
                                         delivered directly to the cedar hills regional landfill have decreased
mattress recycling                       by approximately 60 percent.

                     • another innovative effort focused on improving recycling and sustainability best
                       practices is the ecoconsumer public outreach program. this program includes the
                       regular ecoconsumer column in the seattle times as well as numerous tv and radio
                       appearances. nearly 30 public presentations were made in 2011.




                10          toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                  2011 annual report

preparing for climate change impacts
• the king county flood control district is improving
  floodplain management to minimize the impacts of
  flooding. in 2011, the district completed three flood
  protection infrastructure projects, helped raise the
  elevation of seven homes, facilitated relocating five
  chronically flooded houses to higher ground, and
  demolished six other chronically flooded houses on
  land that king county had previously purchased.

• king county parks and the water and land resources
  division (wlrd) continued to acquire, protect, restore
  and provide stewardship for natural lands. these
                                                             a flood control district-funded levee project
  lands reduce the severity of local climate change
  impacts and also naturally sequester carbon dioxide.
  in 2011, king county acquired more than 780 acres of
  natural lands. additionally, parks volunteers provided
  more than 58,000 hours of service, planting more
  than 23,000 native plants and removing invasive
  weeds, while wlrd planted nearly 60,000 plants.
  the county also supported private stewardship
  efforts. for example, 720 privately owned acres were
  enrolled into king conservation district farm or rural
  stewardship plans.

outreach, education, collaboration, training
• in 2011, executive constantine kicked off the
  king county-cities climate collaboration, a partnership
  between the county and its cities to enhance climate
                                                             climate collaboration, left to right:
  change and sustainability efforts. county and city staff   redmond mayor john marchione,
  are partnering on climate change-related projects and      king county executive dow constantine,
  programs, including outreach, coordination, solutions      mercer island councilmember mike grady
  and funding.

• in 2011, through the responding to climate change brownbag series and the
  greentools sustainable cities roundtables, king county led more than 25 educational
  events that reached hundreds of city and county staff on climate-related project and
  program successes and challenges.

• the wastewater treatment division used its new biosolids brand loop as a tool
                  to communicate the benefits of safely and sustainably returning
                  carbon and nutrients to the land through biosolids. loop is a natural
                  soil amendment made from solids extracted during the wastewater
                  treatment process that has been produced for nearly 40 years.




toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                 2011 annual report                 11

challenges and opportunities
the scope and scale of climate change impacts facing the region are daunting. king county
residents, businesses and local governments face diverse and increasingly severe impacts
from rising sea levels, decreased snowpack and increased flooding.

beyond the scale of the direct impacts that king county faces, a key challenge will be to
sustain the level of action and commitment to achieve king county’s greenhouse emissions-
reduction target of at least 80 percent below 2007 levels by 2050 — the amount scientists
tell us is necessary on a global scale to avoid some of the most catastrophic impacts of
climate change.

despite these challenges, exciting opportunities are emerging. the recent ghg emissions in
king county report highlights opportunities for new climate solutions. for example, in 2012
the solid waste division will implement a pilot project to reducing wasted food that could
potentially serve as a model for broader food-related efforts.


looking forward
near-term actions and commitments related to achieving king county’s climate change
goals are outlined in the 2012 king county climate motion and the 2012 strategic climate
action plan. implementing the priorities and strategies identified by these plans is the key
recommendation for king county through 2013.




12      toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                    2011 annual report

     energy program



background
king county has a long history of energy efficiency and energy smart action. the king
county council adopted the county’s energy plan in october 2010 (ordinance 13368),
recommitting the county to aggressive goals for energy savings and renewable energy use.

the energy plan directs all departments and divisions to save energy and to obtain as
much of their energy as practical from renewable resources. divisions are responsible for
using the energy plan strategies to develop specific plans to achieve the county’s goals.
an interdepartmental energy task force coordinates and supports these plans and reports
progress to the executive and county council. during the 2012 update of the king county
comprehensive plan, new mid- and long-term goals for energy efficiency and renewable
energy were proposed to help guide and drive longer-term investments.

king county government’s energy portfolio is                                        2011 king county
composed predominantly of diesel fuel, most of                                      energy sources
which is used by transit vehicles, and electricity,
for which the largest single use is wastewater                             gasoline                             diesel
processing. overall, county government used                  jet fuel 0.1%
                                                           heating oil 0.1%         8.5%              49.1%
3.54 trillion british thermal units (btus)1 in 2011.           steam 0.3%
this is equivalent to the energy use of roughly                                      9.5%
                                                                     natural gas
50,000 homes.
                                                                                             26.0%

departments and their divisions continue to                                       electric                       biogas 4.8%
implement key energy strategies, such as                                                                     green
                                                                                                             electric 1.7%
conducting facility energy assessments, setting
priorities for making energy-saving improvements
and pursuing utility incentives or other financing
for energy projects.                                                                2007 king county
                                                                                    energy sources
the county continues to undertake energy                                                                      diesel
                                                                         gasoline
projects, the number and benefits of which
continue to increase. however, the positive                  jet fuel 0.1%                           42.3%
                                                           heating oil 0.1%           8.5%
impact of these actions has been somewhat
                                                             propane 0.2%
masked by the addition of facilities and services.             steam 2.3%           6.0%                 6.4%
                                                                                                                   biodiesel
                                                                    natural gas
                                                                                              27.3%     6.4%
                                                                                                                  biogas
                                                                                      electric                  green
                                                                                                                electric 0.5%

1
    the energy of one btu is equivalent to approximately
    what is given off by burning one match.



toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                       2011 annual report                   13

                                      performance indicators
                                      the county has three primary near-term energy performance targets:
                                           1. achieve a 10 percent normalized net reduction in energy use in
                                              county buildings and facilities by 2012.
                                           2. achieve a 10 percent normalized net reduction in energy use by
                                              county vehicles by 2015.
                                           3. produce, use or procure renewable energy equal to 50 percent of
                                              total county energy requirements by 2012.

                    king county government operations                               the graphs on this page track progress from 2007
                     normalized energy use in facilities                            through 2011 for the three primary near-term
                       1.5                                                          quantitative targets from the 2010 energy plan.

                                                                                    facilities
                       1.4
                                                                                    normalized facility energy use for 2011 has been
   trillions of btus




                                                                                    reduced 5.2 percent from the baseline year. the
                       1.3                                                          interim target for 2011 is 8 percent below the 2007
                                                                        target
                                                                                    baseline. the biogas scrubbing system at the south
                                                                                    treatment plant experienced a major failure from
                       1.2
                                                                                    december, 2010 through may, 2011. without biogas
                                                                                    for heating the digesters, the natural gas fired
                       1.1                                                          cogeneration turbines were used as a heat source.
                              2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
                                                                                    the extra energy necessary for this operation is
                                     actuals
                                                                                    displayed above. without the scrubber failure,
                                     temporary loss of
                                                                                    energy use would have been 7.9 percent below the
                                     south treatment plant biogas
                                                                                    2007 baseline.

                                                                                    vehicles
             king county government operations                                      more than 80 percent of the energy used in king
                normalized vehicle energy use
                                                                                    county vehicles occurs within metro transit.
                       2.3
                                                                                    normalized vehicle energy use for all other county
                                                                                    fleets has been reduced by 1.8 percent from 2007
                       2.2
                                                                                    levels. metro transit normalizes energy usage by
trillions of btus




                                                                                    three means: vehicle miles, passenger miles, and
                       2.1                                                          boardings which are consistent with national transit
                                                                                    standards. these three normalization methods
                                                                                    on county vehicle energy use are shown in the
                       2.0
                                                                        target      graph. 2011 normalized vehicle energy use for the
                                                                                    county ranges between 0.6 percent below and 6.2
                       1.9
                                                                                    percent above 2007 levels, depending on the dot
                             2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
                                                                                    normalization method. the interim target for 2011
                                         transit vehicle miles
                                                                                    is 5 percent below baseline. the increased energy
                                         transit passenger miles
                                                                                    usage by county vehicles is largely attributed to
                                         transit boardings
                       normalized non-transit fleet energy use is included in and
                                                                                    increasing transit service, which has a net positive
                       consistent across the three normalization methods shown.     impact on community level energy usage.

                                      14         toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                      2011 annual report

renewable energy                                                                   king county government operations
renewable energy production increased with the                                            renewable energy use
startup of the cedar hills regional landfill gas                                             and production
                                                                                   70%
processing plant, run by bioenergy washington,
to sell scrubbed biogas to puget sound energy.                                     60%




                                                           percent of county use
                                                                                   50%
the county energy portfolio is currently at
approximately 23 percent renewable energy.                                         40%                 target

the county is expected to exceed its 50 percent                                    30%
target once the cedar hills facility and a west
                                                                                   20%
point electricity co-generation project are
fully operational.                                                                 10%

                                                                                    0%
                                                                                         2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012
                                                                                               actuals
                                                                                               temporary loss of
                                                                                               south treatment plant biogas
                                                                                               with full operation of
                                                                                               cedar hills biogas facility
2011 key accomplishments                                                                       projected


energy efficiency improvements:
• the facilities management division (fmd) has
  made energy-efficiency improvements resulting in
  a normalized energy reduction of 19 percent from
  2007 levels. total energy costs have been reduced
  by more than $1.7 million for the period 2008-2011,
  mostly as a result of conversion from steam to
  natural gas heating in the downtown courthouse and
  correctional facility. the first two of three phases
  of improvements at the maleng regional justice
  center (mrjc) have resulted in energy reductions
  of 38 percent. green power purchases at the mrjc
                                                             new energy efficient heat exchanger, water piping and
  and chinook building keep the division’s power             controls at the maleng regional justice center (mrjc)
  portfolio at 16 percent renewable energy, though this
  figure has declined slightly from prior years due to the successful energy projects at the
  mrjc. all told, these actions have resulted in reductions in co2 emissions of 49 percent
  since 2007.

• weyerhaeuser king county aquatic center (wkcac) energy efficiency improvements
  began in 2009 with new equipment to condition the pool space and were completed in
  2011 with the installation of energy efficient lighting in the natatorium. the wkcac has
  reduced energy consumption by 16 percent and has collected rebates of $55,570 from
  puget sound energy.



toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                                             2011 annual report       15

                    • home insulation noise program: king county international airport is a strong
                      community partner in mitigating aircraft noise impacts on adjacent communities. based
                      on the federal aviation administration’s part 150 land use and noise compatibility
                      study, the airport has secured airport improvement program grants to supports its
                      home insulation program. qualified homes receive specially designed windows and
                      doors, as well as ventilation and insulation to reduce aircraft noise impacts. a positive
                      secondary benefit of the home insulation noise program continues to be the improved
                      energy efficiency of the homes. the program is estimated to have saved more than 4.5
                      billion btus of energy in 2011, or an average of $250 per household per year. the noise
                      sensitive communities include georgetown, beacon hill and north tukwila. the sound
                      insulation program is scheduled to be completed in 2014.

                                                          fleet improvements
                                                          • transit fleet replacement: in 2011, metro
                                                            transit placed 90 new 40-foot hybrid buses into
                                                            service, saving approximately 59,508 gallons of
                                                            diesel than the buses they replaced. metro also
                                                            introduced 18 new 60-foot hybrids, and replaced
                                                            60 older 60-foot articulated diesel buses with 70
                                                            new hybrid buses that cumulatively consumed
                                                            approximately 20,000 gallons less per year than
                                                            the diesel buses they replaced.
new forty-foot, low-floor daimler/orion hybrid buses
can get up to 5.7mpg                                      • electric vehicles and infrastructure: king county
                                                            department of transportation purchased 25
                                                            electric vehicles and installed 36 electric vehicle
                                                            charging stations at its rideshare van distribution
                                                            center, burien transit center park & ride, and
                                                            king street center. the county plans to install
                                                            up to 13 more charging stations in 2012 and
                                                            continues to collaborate with regional partners to
                                                            promote this emerging technology.

                                                          • other operational transportation initiatives:
                                                            additional energy-saving transportation options
electric fleet vehicles
                                                            including decentralizing the online vehicle
                                                            reservation system, a pilot eco-driver training
                                                            program, and purchasing additional alternative
                                                            fuel light- and medium-duty vehicles to support
                                                             county operations are being pursued.




                  16       toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                   2011 annual report

challenges and opportunities
saving energy remains a top priority for king county’s diverse governmental operations.
significant progress in facilities and operations was made in 2011, as the county is close
to meeting its reduction goals. as for renewable targets, the county continues to pursue
aggressive and proactive efforts to help achieve its 2012 renewable energy targets. with the
cedar hills and west point co-generation projects scheduled to be fully operational in 2012,
the county’s renewable energy production should exceed the stated goals.

the county continues its efforts to achieve 2015 vehicle energy reduction targets but
this continues to be a challenge given the fact that 81 percent of the vehicle energy use
is attributed to metro transit. there are several contributing factors to metro’s increased
fuel consumption, chief among these is the conversion of the fleet to larger buses to
accommodate and increase ridership. additionally, numerous other factors contributed to
this such as, loss of engine performance due to aging, additional energy consuming features
on new buses and conversion of electric trolleybuses to diesel coaches.

financial support, technical and management resources, willingness to try different
approaches and ongoing management support are required by all divisions to achieve
the targets.

king county must continue to focus on reducing energy consumption in its operational
practices; using creative financial mechanisms such as utility incentives, energy savings
performance contracting and low-interest federal bonds to implement energy reduction
efforts during these challenging fiscal times and to keep the county on track.




toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                   2011 annual report           17

looking forward
king county continues to push for continuous improvements in energy efficiency in all areas
of county operations. below are some of the key areas of focus in 2012.

• employee education: the 2010 energy plan provides key strategies to identify energy-
  saving changes in operations and prioritize capital investments that will provide the
  greatest benefit. the county plans to implement an energy efficiency training series
  for operations and project managers in 2012, and begin a countywide resource
  conservation effort to improve employees’ awareness of the goals, strategies and the
  impact of individual actions on the environment and bottom line.

• data systems: managers are expected to support operations staff in monitoring energy
  use and optimizing operations based on detailed knowledge of facility energy use. in
  2012, the county will review existing data systems, processes, and uses to assess
  energy data system needs. the energy task force will develop a data plan with the goal
  of aggregating energy and resource data into one system, and provide staff with the
  training and expectations on using this important information. in order to accomplish this
  effort, the system investment and supporting resources must be made a high priority.

• community collaboration: the county will continue to participate in local, regional
  and national efforts, and collaborate with communities on adding more electric vehicle
  charging stations, installing community solar installations and supporting district
  energy opportunities.

• financial mechanisms: the county will further explore establishing mechanisms for
  financing the upfront capital costs of energy efficiency investments, documenting
  savings through energy accounting and creating incentives for agencies to reinvest
  savings in further energy-saving projects. these steps are key to continuous
  improvement. additionally, integrating these energy expectations into the budget
  process helps to ensure budgets are aligned with the key strategies to improve energy
  efficiency. 2012 budget direction to agencies will include direction for inclusion of
  specific proposals to meet energy efficiency targets. finally, developing future year
  energy cost forecasts and a mechanism to update them annually are also key initiatives.
  to continue this effort, sections must apply this same approach to project and
  operational efforts.

for more information, visit king county’s energy program.




18      toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                  2011 annual report

  green building program



background
the intent of the green building and sustainable development ordinance 16147 is to
ensure that the design, construction, maintenance and operation of any king county-owned
or financed capital project is consistent with the latest green building and sustainable
development practices.

the ordinance requires eligible county projects to be leed gold certified, or to apply the
king county sustainable infrastructure scorecard. the green building team, comprised of
representatives from king county departments, is charged with helping countywide projects
achieve the highest possible standards of green building.

the ordinance also directs the greentools program to provide technical support for the
county’s green building team, as well as to cities and county residents, as appropriate.




performance indicators
   demolition diversion rate from                        completed leed and king county
    king county capital projects                           sustainable infrustructure
100%                                                       scorecards by department
                                                       100%

80%
                                                       80%

60%
                                                       60%


40%                                                    40%


20%                                                    20%


 0%                                                     0%
               2010                    2011                       fmd           dot           dnrp
       on average, king county capital projects that          on average in 2011, departments submitted
       included construction and demolition data              scorecards for more than 90 percent of projects.
       diverted 79 percent of construction materials
       from landfills in 2011.




toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                          2011 annual report                 19

                 king county
                 green building program
                      shoreline               bothell woodinville

                           99              kenmore                                   duvall
                                 5                  405
                                     522       kirkland
                                                                                               203
                                                                    redmond

                                                                             202
                 seattle
                                                          520
         puget                                        bellevue                                     carnation
        sound                             mercer                         sammamish
                                           island

                                                                                                      snoqualmie
                                               405                           issaquah                           north
                                                                   900                                          bend
                                     99         renton
                     burien
                                                                                                                       90
                                                                                            18

       vashon                                167
                 normandy
        island       park
                                             kent                            maple
                                                     covington
                                                                             valley
                                                                                             unincorporated
                                                                                              king county
                                     5
                                                          18
                     federal
                       way                 auburn
                                                                              black
                                                                             diamond


                                                                                   169
                                                                             enumclaw
leed certified buildings
2003 - 2011
     gold or platinum (103)                                                                   410
     certified or silver (102)


3- to 5-star builtgreen™ certified
single-family and multi-family homes
2000 – 2011
      1-100 builtgreen™ homes                                            n
      101-1000 builtgreen™ homes
                                                                                                               department of
      1001-2000 builtgreen™ homes                                                                       natural resources and parks
                                                               0         4               8 miles            solid waste division
      over 2000 builtgreen™ homes                                                                       green building program




20          toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                                                       2011 annual report

          2011 key accomplishments
          internal king county

         green building team assists countywide
         green building and operations efforts                             “one of my top
         in 2011, three distinct green building tools were created          priorities and a
                                                                            key goal in our
2        or updated to assist county staff. first, the king county
                                                                            king county
         green operations and maintenance (o&m) guidelines
    skykomish
                                                                            strategic plan is
         were completed, which will establish a standard for                protecting our
         greening operations and maintenance at all king county             environment
         facilities. this tool will provide guidance and support to         and quality of
         o&m staff in developing sustainable practices. next, a             life for future
         ghg emissions calculator was created in collaboration              generations. we need to continue to
                                                                            push the envelope on saving energy
         with the climate change team as a tool for project
                                                                            and resources in all areas of county
         managers to quantify ghg emission savings from green
                                                                            operations, design and construction.”
         building efforts. this will support project managers in                    - executive dow constantine
         reducing a project’s environmental footprint. finally, nearly
         100 staff were trained to use an updated life-cycle-cost
         analysis tool, which helps project managers consider
         cost effective design alternatives. a variety of additional
         technical trainings were offered at no cost to ensure
         project managers have skills and information on the latest
         green building and operations techniques and innovative
         technologies.

          the 2011 king county green building summit and
          excellence in building green awards ceremony was
          held at the brightwater environmental education and
          community center, with participation from 11 county
                                                                         executive constantine awarded a team from the road
          divisions. more than three dozen employees were honored        services division a 2011 excellence in building green
          by executive constantine for their work maintaining the        award for their work on the southwest 98th street
          county’s position as a national leader in cost-effective and   pedestrian improvements projects.
          sustainable building practices.

          green building activity by king county agencies in 2011 consisted of 10 leed projects
          and 202 projects using the king county sustainable infrastructure scorecard, bringing the
          inventory of completed sustainable infrastructure scorecards to 251. on average, king
          county capital projects diverted 79 percent of construction materials from landfills. salvage
          and deconstruction assistance, including on-site building assessments, was provided on
          31 different king county projects.




          toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                    2011 annual report                 21

                 these are just a few examples of king county green building projects. you can see
                 additional green building accomplishments at the county’s green building team website.


                                                              • little footprint big forest – (left) a parks and
                                                                recreation division challenge to design an overnight
                                                                camping structure re-using a surplus cargo container,
                                                                for use at county open space and forested lands that
                                                                have minimal roads or utilities.

low-impact, eco-friendly cargo camping structure
rendering courtesy of hybrid architechture

                  • rehabilitation of the alpha taxiway – recycled more than 40,000 tons of taxiway
                    concrete and asphalt material from the king county international airport.

                  • public health centers – in collaboration with community partners and the county’s
                    facilities management division, public health will be designing new public health
                    centers. using lean and green principles, center designs are smaller, energy efficient
                    and use sustainable products in construction.

                                                               • transit north base – (left) improvements to an existing
                                                                 two-acre green roof, along with retrofits of transit base
                                                                 heating, ventilating and air conditioning systems to
   north
   base
                                                    bus
                                                                 improve energy efficiency.
                                                    garage
                                                               • renton consolidated office and repair facility –
   green
   roof                                                          the “j” building will undergo a roof replacement
                                                                 project and energy efficiency improvements to the
                                                                 existing 15,000 square foot facility. the goal is to
renovation of metro transit’s north base includes                achieve leed gold certification. construction began
green roof and energy efficiency upgrades
                                                                 in april 2012.

                  • barton combined sewer overflow (cso) – (below) construction of green stormwater
                    infrastructure
                    facilities such
                    as bioretention
                    swales will achieve
                    cso control and
                    provide up to two
                    million gallons of
                    volume reduction                 bioretention
                                                                  underdrain                  glacial till soils
                    and 14.6 million                                            combined
                                                                                 sewer         (over 15’ depth)

                    gallons of peak flow
                    reduction per day.                             deep infiltration     advance outwash soils



                                                                                               groundwater (deeper than shown here)

                                                    green stormwater infrastrcuture features

                 22        toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                                   2011 annual report

king county community
the dnrp’s green building program – greentools – supports internal king county agencies,
cities, the building community and the public in designing buildings and structures that have
fewer impacts on the environment, are energy efficient and use recycled materials. in 2011,
greentools won public sector leadership awards from cascadia green building council
and built green of king and snohomish counties.

sustainable cities program
in 2011, greentools delivered 12 roundtables, five technical trainings,
two tours and the greentools government confluence, which was
held in conjunction with the 2011 built green conference and was a
programming highlight. at this event, the winner of the little footprint
big forest contest cargo-container design competition was announced
to an audience of 155 conference attendees. also at this event, several
cities signed the king county-cities climate collaboration pledge,            greentools government confluence
                                                                              co-hosted by city of issaquah
adding momentum to this new partnership focused on climate change
solutions. at the end of 2011, king county and nine cities had formally
committed to collaborate on this work.

construction and demolition recycling program supports
green jobs
a deconstruction crew lead was hired under the department of
community and human services’ youthsource program. the crew lead
manages a rotating deconstruction crew of three to seven young adults
between the ages of 18 and 24 who are working to earn their ged or
diploma credentials. each group of program participants goes through
safety and equipment training, as well as training in basic work practices.
the crew then works together to entirely remove a house, diverting the
majority of materials for reuse and recycling. this federally-funded work
                                                                              youthsource crew removing
training program provides crew services to king county at no cost to the      drywall as part of a residential
project. the crew takes about a month to deconstruct a 1,500-square           deconstruction project.
foot house, and was kept busy in 2011, removing four houses located on
floodplains for the water and land resources division.

                                        greentools launched the cleanbin program in 2011 to
                                        recognize jobsites that demonstrated best practices
                                        for separating construction and demolition (c&d)
                                        garbage from recyclable materials. this means, at a
                                        minimum, always having two containers at the job
site – one for materials that can be effectively recycled, and another container for the c&d
materials for which there are not currently reuse or recycling markets. two jobsites in king
county were recognized in 2011:




toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                    2011 annual report               23

               • st. elizabeth hospital – this project, managed by sellen construction,
                 had an overall diversion rate of 99 percent.
               • zhome – this project was managed by ichijo usa co., ltd with an
                 overall diversion rate of 92 percent.

                  green building assistance provided to innovative projects
                  in collaboration with wlrd and wtd the solid waste division awarded the final green
                  building grants and provided technical support to two developments completed in 2011.
                  located next to one another in issaquah, the zhome and ywca village developments are
                  each significant for different reasons. the greentools program worked with community
                                                              partners to develop the nation’s first zero-energy,
                                                              carbon neutral multifamily community in the
                                                              zhome development - the highest 5-star rated
                                                              built green project ever certified. it received the
                                                              forest stewardship council’s project of the year
                                                              award, and was king county’s first salmon safe
                                                              and epa water sense certified project. the ywca
                                                              village provides 146 units of affordable housing in
                                                              a transit-oriented, low impact development that
                                                              features green materials and numerous energy
                                                              efficiency measures. the residential buildings
ywca family village and zhome delivers equitable access to    in the ywca village earned built green 5-star
green building for issaquah residents.                        certification, while the commercial buildings and
                                                              community center were awarded leed gold.

              in further support of equity and social justice in king county, greentools has joined with
              habitat for humanity and miller hull partnership on the immediate house of the future
              project. the project kicked off in 2011 with a workshop attended by over 60 local experts
              who focused on four major topics: construction, energy, program and site, and prioritizing
              repeatable solutions for near-term habitat for humanity projects. the immediate house of
              the future is also a recipient of king county’s final leed grant funds. it will be completed
              in 2012 on the grounds of the seattle center before moving to its final home in the hope vi
              neighborhood of rainier vista.


              in 2011, two more recipients of the county’s green building grants earned green certification.
              pond lily, a wet lab at the mercer slough environmental education center, received five-
              star certification from built green. in 2011, leed grant recipient kenmore city hall received
              leed gold certification.




              24       toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                       2011 annual report

challenges and opportunities
an ongoing challenge is the need for better quantitative data. to effectively monitor progress
and performance measures, county agencies need a streamlined and consistent database
that contains comprehensive project tracking information.

king county can continue its national leadership in public sector green building and
operation efforts with the renewal of green building and sustainable development
ordinance in 2013. developing policy content will begin in 2012.

green building practices should continue to be mainstreamed into county actions, such
as the countywide capital project program, budget direction and the project information
center database. division database systems can be modified to include or expand their
sustainability criteria for more efficient tracking.


looking forward
• division management should continue to actively support and incentivize project
  managers to implement sustainability practices to the greatest extent possible in all their
  capital and operating projects.

• continue to develop a framework for documenting and reinvesting energy, resource,
  and financial savings resulting from division-led initiatives that reduce the county’s
  environmental footprint, which can help to incentivize continuous improvement.

• county divisions should prioritize adopting a green o&m manual to implement operation
  practices that will save king county funding.

• link operations and capital budgets in one fund to better evaluate life cycle cost
  alternatives and pursue truly sustainable buildings and infrastructure.

• look forward and plan for more innovative green building or operations projects such as
  pursuing the living building challenge.

for more information, visit king county’s green building program.




toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                   2011 annual report          25

 environmental purchasing program



background
king county’s environmentally preferable products purchasing policy (kcc 18.20),
originally established in 1989, was updated in 2011 to include revisions for paper
reduction and purchase of 100 percent recycled paper, electronics recycling and reporting
requirements and directs county agencies to buy environmentally preferable products
“whenever practicable.”

“environmentally preferable purchasing” (epp) is defined by the environmental protection
agency as products and services “having a lesser or reduced effect on human health and the
environment when compared with competing products that serve the same purpose. this
comparison may consider raw materials acquisition, production, manufacturing, packaging,
distribution, reuse, operation, maintenance, or disposal of the product.”

the department of executive services’ environmental purchasing program is responsible
for implementing this policy and offers county employees information and technical
assistance to help them find economical and effective alternative products that meet
environmental requirements.

in the past year, king county agencies purchased $60 million worth of environmentally
preferable products, saving $1.54 million compared to the cost of conventional products.
the savings are typically found in reduced initial purchase cost and avoided replacement
cost due to durability. oftentimes, there are even more savings through less maintenance,
reduced energy and water use, or reduced greenhouse-gas emissions. these savings are
quantified to the greatest extent possible, and are included in this report.




26      toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                  2011 annual report

performance indicators
greenhouse gas emissions – operations
purchasing goods and services, most significantly construction and other services,
account for 270,000 metric tons of king county emissions, or approximately 30 percent
of the county’s direct emissions. the new study, “greenhouse gas emissions in king
county” changes the way the county looks at its carbon footprint and will help inform
future environmental purchasing decisions.


                                               greenhouse gas emissions from
                                             king county government operations
                                                      total: 725,000 (in metric tons co2e)

                                                                                          fossil fuels
                                                                                            (primarily from gas
                                                                                              and diesel for transit)
                                      purchasing                              182,000
                           (primarily associated
                             with construction,               270,000
                                  but also from
                            purchase of goods                                       56,000      electricity
                               and other capital)                                              (primarily from
                                                                                               wastewater treatment)
                                                                        217,000


                                                                        methane
                                                                 (primarily from landfills)




copy paper
purchases of copy paper by county agencies were reduced by 9.5 percent between 2010
and 2011 while the purchase of 100 percent recycled paper increased by12.5 percent.


                                                              king county
                                                          copy paper purchases
                                             25,000


                                             20,000
                       cases of copy paper




                                             15,000


                                             10,000


                                              5,000


                                                 0
                                                       2007    2008       2009       2010       2011
                                                            recycled content of copy paper
                                                              30%          40%                100%


toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                                              2011 annual report            27

                 2011 key accomplishments
                 copy paper
                        ordinance 17074, which took effect in january 2012, requires a 20 percent reduction
                           in paper consumption by 2013 over 2010 figures, plus double-sided printing and
                               increased use of 100 percent recycled content copy paper. this new policy and
                               a new paper contract in 2011 will help spur the purchase of more 100 percent
                               recycled-content copy paper. the county achieved savings of $118,265 last
                               year by purchasing fewer cases of paper, and receiving better pricing under the
                               new copy paper contract.

                 the paper policy is supported by both the king county executive and county council, and it
                 will help county agencies meet the strategic goals for environmental sustainability. if county
                 agencies convert their remaining purchases of copy paper to 100 percent recycled content,
                 an estimated 6,026 more trees would be left standing, greenhouse gas emissions would be
                 slashed by 306 tons and 2.75 million gallons of wastewater and 88 tons of solid waste would
                 not be produced annually by paper manufacturers. these figures are provided by the paper
                 calculator, an estimating tool provided by the nonprofit environmental paper network.

                 electronics recycling
                                                          in 2011, king county became just the second county
                                                          in the nation to earn the “e-stewards enterprise”
                                                          designation from the basel action network’s (ban)
                                                          standard for responsible recycling and reuse of electronic
                                                          equipment. this designation signifies that all county
                                                          agencies recycle electronic waste, such as computer
                                                          monitors, tvs and cell phones in an environmentally
                                                          responsible manner. electronic waste, or “e-waste,” is of
                                                          particular concern if disposed of improperly because it
                                                          contains a variety of heavy metals and other toxins that
electronics recycling operation                           can leach into the environment.

                                  last year, the county council passed legislation (ordinance 17085) requiring
                                  ban’s e-stewards® certification, or equivalent, of contracting vendors, to ensure
                                  that e-waste recycling is held to the highest environmental standards. the
                                  current contractor is a certified e-stewards® recycler, reaching this elite status in
                                  2011. county agencies recycled 68,099 pounds of electronic equipment, 6,820
                                  pounds of cathode ray tube monitors and 1,253 lcd monitors, 14,447 pounds
                                  of televisions and 6,356 pounds of batteries through this contract in 2011.




                 28         toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                        2011 annual report

lighting
the energy task force completed the 2012 lighting
implementation plan in response to ordinance 16769 that was
issued to ensure compliance with new 2012 federal energy-
efficiency lighting standards. the plan is a guide for king
county agencies on creating plans to replace or retrofit lighting
fixtures with more energy-efficient lamps and ballasts, to take
advantage of utility rebates ahead of federal phase-out laws, and
                                                                       taxiway led lighs
to shield outdoor lighting to prevent outdoor light pollution from
county facilities. the plan also summarizes efforts to acquire
energy-efficient lamps with reduced mercury, and recycle lamps
containing mercury.

county agencies, including facilities management division,
transit division and parks and recreation, have completed
several projects at various facilities, including at the component
supply center and the weyerhaeuser king county aquatic
center upgrading to more efficient fluorescent lamps and lighting
controls. the airport, marine and transit divisions installed light-
emitting diodes (leds) for over 320 taxiway lights and 13 signs,
a trial light at pier 50, and bus headlamps, respectively. leds are
long lasting and energy efficient, which far outweigh their initial
cost. many more energy efficient lighting upgrades and the use
of leds, are planned for 2012 at several maintenance facilities.       pier 50 led lighting

king county procurement and contract services worked with the state of washington
on a new contract for lamps and ballasts, awarded in june 2011, meeting the new 2012
federal energy-efficiency requirements. in addition to price, the bids were evaluated on
several non-cost environmental factors, including long-life lamps and reduced mercury and
                                       lead, referencing mercury limits set by the european
                                       union’s restriction of hazardous substances
                                       directive, as there are no current federal limits.

                                          king county has been recycling mercury-containing
                                          fluorescent lamps from its own facilities since 2000.
                                          in the past year, king county recycled thousands of
                                          lamps, including 40,938 compact, straight and u-tube
                                          fluorescent lamps; 2,806 high-intensity discharge
                                          lamps and 3,717 pounds of ballasts.
lighting upgrades to the paint booth at
the component supply center




toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                     2011 annual report           29

outreach
king county exchanges practical information with other environmentally preferable
purchasing practitioners and offers its experience in support of the planning, policy-
development, and procurement-education activities of local jurisdictions and other
organizations. in 2011, program personnel participated in the following activities:

• national association of counties (naco) green government
  initiative - appointed to serve on green purchasing task force;

• underwriters laboratories (ul) environment – participated in the annual ul council
  meeting in chicago as one of the few government officials invited, to discuss the future
  of environmental standard setting, certification and transparency;

• green products roundtable – participated in a two-day workshop as an
  invited government participant to discuss tools to bring clarity to the green
  products marketplace;

• naco webinar “green purchasing 2.0: no compromising on cost and performance” –
  panel speaker;

• municipal collaboration for sustainable purchasing (canada) peer exchange
  teleconference – speaker on metrics and reporting systems for sustainable purchasing;

• city and county of denver – sustainable adviser for epp and networking;

• buyer staff trainings – training sessions for environmental purchasing policy and
  program; and
                                                                                  member
• responsible purchasing network steering committee.




30      toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                    2011 annual report

challenges and opportunities
a major challenge to expanding the purchase of additional categories of environmentally
preferable products is the lack of consensus-based standards and independent, third-
party certifications for many products. “greenwashing,” or false claims of environmental
preferability, of products available in the marketplace, is another issue that must
be considered.

king county addresses these challenges by participating in the public process for
consensus-based standards and referencing these environmental standards and third-
party certifications, where applicable, when specifying many products such as paper,
“green” cleaners, energy efficient equipment and sustainable carpet. every year, county
agencies purchase more “green” certified products, such as epeat® registered computers,
green seal certified cleaners, energy star equipment and forest stewardship council-
certified paper.

in addition, continued support and priority for epp is needed to ensure that the county’s
sustainability goals are met and that it is integrated fully with other environmental programs.
consistent messaging at all levels of management and continued work with other
jurisdictions and national organizations are opportunities to expand the program and learn
about other successful policies and programs.


looking forward
• implement paper and electronics recycling legislation passed in 2011;

• use recommendations from the 2012 ghg emissions study on king county
  geographical emissions as they relate to county purchasing of goods and services and
  implement targeted approaches to further reductions in ghg’s in purchasing;

• establish a contract for sustainable flooring products and installation - work with the
  city of seattle and u.s. communities on a national contract for carpet and other flooring;

• continue partnerships with responsible purchasing network and naco green
  purchasing taskforce, including acquiring a summer intern to assist with green
  purchasing efforts; and

• update epp policy to align with overall environmental sustainability goals and
  other policies.

for more information, visit king county’s environmental purchasing program.




toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                    2011 annual report           31

project profile: solid waste recycling &transfer station

                 reducing footprint, expanding services, saving energy and building green




            transfer stations are the public face of the solid waste system. in 2011, transfer facilities
            received 796,188 tons of garbage through 738,566 customer visits. the king county
            solid waste division (swd) is in the midst of modernizing its half-century-old transfer
            station network to meet the needs of its customers, while addressing potential impacts
            of climate change. the new transfer stations will play an important role in increasing
            regional recycling. using an e.p.a. model, it is estimated that recycling and composting
            in king county reduce ghg emissions by approximately 1.62 million metric tons
            annually – the equivalent of removing 280,000 passenger cars from the road.

            the swd has continuously illustrated cutting-edge environmentally sustainable
            practices. for example, the shoreline recycling and transfer station was king county’s
            first leed platinum project and the first industrial project in the world to earn leed
            platinum certification. through sustainable design, the facility exceeded community
            expectations by offering more recycling services and improving the site’s ecology –
                                                   with projections of reducing annual water needs
                                                   by 57 percent and energy costs by 50 percent.
                                                   this project is a model for the community to
                                                   experience leed buildings in an industrial context
                                                   while acting as a living laboratory of innovation.

                                                             improvements to the houghton transfer station
                                                             were completed in early 2011, improving safety
                                                             and efficiency with less impact to neighbors, and
                                                             awarded “project of the year” by the american
                                                             public works association. almost $300,000 in
                                                             savings came from reusing onsite materials and
                                                             less demolition and disposal costs. houghton
                                                             was the pilot project for the county’s sustainable

 francis gaspay, project manager, receives ‘project of the
 year award’ by american public works association for
 houghton transfer station improvements project




            32         toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                           2011 annual report

infrastructure scorecard, achieving a gold rating level, and serving as a tool to effectively
document and communicate sustainable components between the contractor and
consultants.

the bow lake recycling and transfer
station handles more than a third of king
county’s solid waste. the new facility
is one of the region’s most sustainable
waste-handling facilities, and will be
ready to accept garbage in 2012. it is
slated to achieve leed gold, designed
to use 63 percent less energy and 59
percent less water. efficiencies will cut
truck trips to the landfill by one third.

this station will be the first to house        bow lake recycling and transfer station
a material processing and recyclable
collection facility along with waste transfer operations. recyclable materials will be
separated for shipment to off-site recycling facilities.

three new facilities are being designed and planned. the objective is to site transfer stations
strategically to benefit customers, incorporate equity and social justice, minimize negative
environmental impacts, optimize energy efficiency and reduce ghg emissions.

“we have made sustainability a central goal for the redevelopment of our transfer stations,”
says kevin kiernan, king county solid waste division director. “not only will the new
stations save energy and water and provide a safer and healthier work environment, but they
will also achieve dramatically reduced operating costs.”




toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                     2011 annual report             33

project profile: metropool

           all electric | zero emission




      metro transit rideshare operates the largest public commuter van program in the
      country with over 1,200 vans in revenue service. in 2011 the program provided over 3.1
      million passenger trips, reduced over 20,000 metric tons of co2 and eliminated 49.9
      million vehicles miles.

      metropool launched as a pilot program in 2011 with 20 all electric, zero emission (ev)
      nissan leafs. employers in support of this project installed level 2 (240 volt) charging
      stations that allow the metropool vehicle to be fully charged in approximately seven
      hours if the battery is completely empty. the volunteer driver can also choose to charge
      the vehicle at home as the program encourages unlimited personal use to the groups’
      approved drivers to promote ev use.

      the first metropools began operation in partnership with seattle children’s and amgen.
      another travels to the fairmont hotel in seattle. driver joanne day says, “we love the
      leaf. can’t say enough great things about it and metropool! it’s such a fun car to drive.
      we wanted to create a metropool to have the positive impact of taking multiple cars off
      the road and switch to the zero emission leaf, but now that we’re driving it …. we love
      it for so many more reasons.”




      34        toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                  2011 annual report

 the department of transportation is installing 49 level 2 charging stations as public
 infrastructure so ev drivers become comfortable with charging outside their home, travel
 further and decrease “range anxiety.” the stations target a variety of users, including
 commuters during the day, event and retail parking into the evening and overnight residential
 use. some of these charging stations support five king county fleet and several metropool
 evs at king street center, fauntleroy ferry dock and some park & rides.




   metro transit introduced
            metropool to its
  customers to improve the
 community’s environment.
customers have embraced
 the new service and thank
us for another “great mode
         of transportation.”




 toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                  2011 annual report          35

project profile: brightwater

                a new clean-water treatment facility




                                                          in addition to providing enough
                                                          wastewater treatment capacity to protect
                                                          public health, the environment and the
                                                          economy in our growing region over the
                                                          next several decades, the brightwater
                                                          treatment plant incorporates numerous
                                                          sustainable design and building practices
                                                          into the new facility.
 brightwater treatment plant

           building brightwater reduced impervious surface on the 114-acre site by about
           50 percent. alongside the new plant is an innovative stormwater treatment system
           that includes multiple stages of filtration through wetlands and improves the quality of
           stormwater flowing to little bear creek.

           facilities were built using recycled or green building materials such as flyash concrete,
           and design features maximize the use of natural light in work spaces. there is also
           substantial native landscape planting around facility buildings, as well as an adjacent
           environmental education and community center on site pursuing leed’s platinum
           level for design.

           brightwater features 70 acres of open space and enhanced habitat, including 43 acres
           on the north portion of the site that has been transformed from an underused,
           environmentally damaged site into a community amenity with open space and trails and
           improved habitat.




           36         toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                  2011 annual report

king county planted more than 22,000 plants including
5,000 seedling trees using only native plant species that
have been grown and purchased through the king county
plant salvage and parks nurseries, and reused more than
200 trees and root wads cleared from the site during an
earlier road expansion project in stream and pond salmon
habitat reconstruction.

crews also daylighted creeks, restored habitat and
constructed more than four acres of additional enhanced
                                                                      brightwater environmental education and
emergent and forested wetland habitat
                                                                      community center

the brightwater design team was led by king county
staff and made up of both staff and consultants including
world-renowned team members. hargreaves associates
provided site planning and landscape architecture design.
mithun, a local architecture firm and international leader
in environmentally sustainable architecture, designed
brightwater’s facilities as well as the environmental education/
community center. together, king county and our consultants
created a world class facility that will protect the puget sound
region for generations to come.
                                                                      brightwater habitat restoration




toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                       2011 annual report              37

appendix

           climate change cost benefit


      king county ordinance 2012-0049 requires this report include information about all
      expenses associated with the climate change program and a cost-benefit analysis of
      the program.


      approach and cost of climate change program
      the 2008 king county comprehensive plan established a long-term ghg emissions
      reduction goal and includes policies calling for actions to assess and reduce climate
      pollution and prepare for the impacts of climate change. the king county strategic plan’s
      environmental sustainability goal and objectives also include a focus on reducing climate
      pollution and preparing for the impacts of climate change on the environment, human
      health, and economy. the county’s climate change program is led out of the department of
      natural resources and parks (dnrp), where there are currently one full time and one term
      limited staff position. the 2012 budget for these two positions is $190,275 including salary
      and benefits.

      the actions needed to carry out climate-related comprehensive plan policies and strategic
      plan goals and objectives intersect with the roles and work of multiple departments and
      divisions in king county. in order to integrate actions and pool technical resources across
      county agencies, these dnrp climate program staff work closely with climate focused
      teams supporting development and implementation of county directives related to climate
      change. the interdisciplinary climate teams bring together additional county staff focused
      on complementary tasks, such as implementing the energy plan, the green building and
      sustainable development policy and the environmental purchasing program.

      the county also pools resources for climate-related technical assessments (e.g., ghg
      emissions inventories), public outreach, and program development with cities through the
      sustainable cities roundtable, king county-cities climate collaboration, and through
      professional associations like climate communities and iclei-local governments for
      sustainability. membership in these types of organizations gives king county staff ready
      access to information on local government approaches to reducing climate pollution and
      preparing for climate changes, federal and state grant programs, and changing regulatory
      requirements. dues for these organizations were approximately $15,000 in 2011.


      benefits of climate change program
      supporting implementation of a diverse range of climate change-related projects and
      programs, such as those highlighted in this report, have direct climate change-related
      benefits and also other benefits such as reducing water pollution, creating new local green
      jobs, and enhancing residents’ quality of life. specific examples of benefits include:



      38        toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                 2011 annual report

• helping secure additional revenue to support related county projects and programs.
  examples include two grants that run through 2012: in partnership with the national
  wildlife federation, king county was awarded a $135,346 grant from the united
  states forest service to implement the urban and community forestry climate
  preparedness and response project, developing tools for private landowners to learn
  about the relationship between climate change and their forests and to connect them
  to resources to support forest stewardship. additionally, king county was awarded a
  $6.2 million energy efficiency and conservation block grant from the department of
  energy which prioritizes projects that reduce ghg emissions. king county is using
  this grant to support 23 projects, such as energy efficiency retrofits of county facilities,
  electric vehicle infrastructure installations and planning efforts, and paying for energy
  efficiency components of affordable housing projects. climate related staff were directly
  responsible for helping secure, administer and implement these and other external
  revenue sources.

• increasing efficiency of county operations. significant cost savings and new revenue
  sources have been achieved through climate related projects that reduce ghg
  emissions by minimizing energy, waste and resource expenditures and by creating
  new resources such as renewable energy. for example, the facilities management
  division (fmd) has implemented various energy efficiency projects that reduced
  their ghg emissions by almost half from 2007 to 2011. with these projects, fmd’s
  energy costs were also reduced by more than $1.7 million annually between 2008 and
  2011. similar accomplishments and cost savings have been accomplished by other
  king county divisions.

• mitigating future climate change impacts. a key benefit of the climate change program
  relates to minimizing and avoiding climate change risks by integrating climate change
  science into the planning and design of diverse projects and programs. for example, the
  wastewater treatment division has been integrating sea level rise data into wastewater
  infrastructure design and operations. while it is hard to quantify the financial value
  of making these forward making decisions, it is likely significant. for example, the
  washington state department of ecology’s “impacts of climate change on washington’s
  economy” concluded that if ghg emissions are not reduced, and proactive steps to
  minimize impacts are not taken, the annual washington state price tag of climate change
  impacts will be at least $3.8 billion by 2020.

there are other, less-quantifiable benefits related to the climate change program: county
council and executive leadership on the issue, improving relations with king county
cities through regional collaboration, improving the quality of life and health of our
residents, helping residents and businesses save money on energy and resource costs,
supporting community and business environmental and climate efforts, and achieving other
environmental sustainability related objectives. the overall conclusion is that the financial
and environmental benefits of this program significantly outweigh its costs.




toward a sustainable, prosperous king county                    2011 annual report          39

