2013 annual report of king county’s
climate change, energy,
green building and
environmental purchasing
programs




                                      june 2014

alternative formats available.
please call 206-477-4700 or tty: 711.
printed on recycled paper. please recycle.
file: 1406_3736w_kcsustainrpt.indd

2013 annual report of king county’s
climate change, energy, green building
and environmental purchasing programs


june 2014




table of contents
introduction........................................................................................................... 1

goal area 1: transportation and land use............................................... 5

goal area 2: energy and green building................................................. 17

goal area 3: forests and agriculture....................................................... 27

goal area 4: consumption and materials management...................35

goal area 5: preparing for climate change impacts.........................47

appendix.............................................................................................................53




kingcounty.gov/climate


king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs                             iii

iv   king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

introduction

king county places a high priority on reducing the environmental footprint of county
operations and supporting efforts in the broader community to improve environmental
sustainability. the county is also committed to monitoring environmental outcomes relative
to its goals and targets, being transparent about results, and using this information to
inform course corrections.

king county code (kcc 18.50.010) requires annual reporting on the county’s climate
change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs. this report is
intended to satisfy this reporting requirement and provide performance information relative
to related goals and targets as well as challenges, opportunities and recommendations.

the county’s overarching climate goal is to partner with its residents, businesses, local
governments and other partners to reduce countywide greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by
at least 80 percent below 2007 levels by 2050. in 2012, the king county executive and
king county council collaborated to develop and adopt a strategic climate action plan
(scap). the scap synthesizes and focuses king county’s most critical goals, objectives,
and strategies to reduce ghg emissions and prepare for the impacts of climate change. an
updated plan is now being developed and will be transmitted to the king county council by
june 2015. this update will also formally combine and integrate the king county energy
plan and the scap.

the scap reflects king county’s longstanding commitments to environmental sustainability
and economic prosperity. it builds upon diverse climate change and sustainability related
commitment and is organized around five goal areas: transportation and land use, energy
and green building, forests and agriculture, consumption and materials management, and
preparing for climate change impacts.

beginning with the 2012 report, progress has been reported using the framework of the
five major goal areas for the scap, and summarizing information related to both county
operations and service to the broader community. using this framework helps organize
reporting on these diverse but related topics.




king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs   1

    2013 performance snapshot – how are we doing?
    overarching ghg emissions reduction targets1: king county’s latest assessment of ghg
    emissions documented a per capita decline in core ghg emissions for the average king
    county resident, driven primarily by declines in per-person vehicle travel and building energy
    use. however, total overall ghg emissions in king county continued to increase. while
    progress is being made after years of continued growth in emissions, the region is currently
    not on track to meet its long-term ghg reduction targets. as it relates to climate pollution
    from king county government operations, total annual greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions
    related to energy (fossil fuels and electricity) decreased approximately 5.5 percent between
    2007 and 2013.

    during this period, the county’s facility related ghg emissions have fallen by roughly
    18 percent. total ghg emissions from county vehicles have remained flat during this period.
    while significant progress has been made to make the county’s fleets more efficient, increased
    transit service offset the reduction in total ghg emissions from county vehicles. it is
    important to note that increased transit service plays a significant role in reducing community-
    scale ghg emissions. ghg reduction benefits from increased transit are estimated to be
    approximately 4 times the direct ghg footprint of metro transit’s operations. by decreasing
    congestion, reducing car trips, and allowing more efficient land use.

    transportation and land use: in 2013, king county metro transit had more than 122 million
    annual boardings on transit and vanpools, and ridership on all public transportation services in
    king county hit an all-time record high of 148.2 million boardings. transit vehicle energy use
    per passenger capacity has improved by approximately 7 percent since 2007.

    energy and green building: the recent success of king county’s energy and green building
    efforts continued in 2013. currently, the equivalent of 54.9 percent of king county
    government’s total energy requirements are being met by the generation or consumption of
    renewable energy, exceeding the county’s 50 percent renewable energy target. king county
    also achieved an 8.5 percent normalized energy use reduction for facilities between 2007
    and 2013. in 2013, 98 percent of king county capital projects either pursued leadership in
    energy and environmental design (leed) certification or utilized a sustainable infrastructure
    scorecard that guides assessment of energy and resource efficient alternatives. at the
    community level, the county advanced work on regional green building codes in partnership
    with cities and the building community. in december 2013, king county approved a
    significant update to its green building ordinance, that raises the bar for performance for
    all county infrastructure and buildings and integrated new green building commitments for
    affordable housing.

    forests and agriculture: in 2013, king county made continued progress in adding to
    conservation acreage through the open space and forest land current use taxation programs,
    agricultural land preservation, conservation easements, and forest planning and stewardship.
    highlights included the purchase of the 200 acre tall chief property in the snoqualmie valley,
    which will bring high quality agricultural soils back into production and prevent conversion to
    development; implementation of forest stewardship plans on king county parks, including
    at the danville-georgetown forest; and restoration of the maury island marine park, including

2              king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

planting more than 100,000 native trees and shrubs. in august 2013, king county voters
approved the 2014-2019 king county parks, trails, and open space replacement levy by
70 percent, which will help support implementation of the strategic climate action plan
forestry and trail-related commitments.

consumption and materials management: king county residents and businesses continued to
recycle or compost more than half of all waste, a significant achievement. it’s estimated that
this recycling reduced ghg emissions by more than 1.3 million metric tons of carbon dioxide
equivalent, or the same as removing more than 200,000 passenger vehicles from the road.
king county supported these achievements through diverse solid waste and recycling-related
policies, planning and infrastructure investments, including through its recycle more: it’s
easy to do campaign and the food: too good to waste outreach programs. king county also
made significant progress at reducing operational resource related impacts. for example, king
county reduced copy paper usage by 21 percent between 2010 and 2013, achieving savings of
approximately $209,860 over that period.

preparing for climate change impacts: the county has developed programs and projects to
help reduce the impacts of floods, support farm and forest owner action to address climate
change impacts, and begin to prepare the region for the effects of climate change on stormwa-
ter, public health, and emergency response. however, much work remains to tackle the signif-
icant impacts of climate change in king county. 2013 highlights included completion of the
largest in-river flood protection project since establishment of the king county flood district in
2007, factoring climate change into emergency management planning for the first time, and
the wastewater treatment division’s making significant progress in evaluating and reducing sea
level rise impacts to wastewater-related infrastructure.

these are just some of the highlights provided in this report. the “strategic climate action
plan – 2013 progress report” snapshot on the next page provides a visual overview of
progress toward the five goal areas of the scap, followed by a more detailed assessment for
each goal area.

king county is required by council ordinance 17270 to conduct a comprehensive update of
the scap by june 30, 2015. ordinance requirements for the update include work to further
identify community level actions the county can take to reduce climate pollution and prepare
for the impacts of climate change, and direction to formally combine and integrate the king
county energy plan into the scap.

looking forward to 2014 and 2015, the county is increasing collaborative work with cities to
establish a shared, countywide target and measurement framework for reducing greenhouse
gas emissions, and engaging cities through the king county-cities climate collaboration to
commit to specific actions to reduce community-scale greenhouse gas emissions. the county
is working hard to both “walk the talk” to become more sustainable in its operations as well as
to partner with businesses, cities, utilities, and the public to help achieve the deep reductions
in community-level greenhouse gas emissions that need to be made.
1
    for additional details about progress toward king county’s greenhouse gas emissions targets, please see king county’s
    greenhouse gas emissions inventories (community level) at http://www.kingcounty.gov/environment/climate/climate-
    change-resources/emissions-inventories.aspx and the kingstat climate protection webpage (government operations) at
    http://your.kingcounty.gov/dnrp/measures/performance/en-climate-protection.aspx.

king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs                             3

strategic climate action plan 2013 progress report
this progress report is a summary of the goals of king county’s 2012 strategic climate action plan. while it
provides a general indication of progress, see each chapter of the 2013 sustainability report for performance
details, accomplishments, and related challenges and opportunities.

      goal area                    county services                                 county operations

                        king county shall partner with its                king county shall reduce total
      overarching       residents, businesses, local                      greenhouse gas emissions from
    climate change      governments and other partners to                 government operations, compared
        targets         reduce countywide greenhouse gas                  to a 2007 baseline, by at least
                        emissions by at least 80 percent                  15 percent by 2015, 25 percent by
                        below 2007 levels by 2050.                        2020, and 50 percent by 2030.


                        king county will reduce the need for              king county will increase the
                        driving and provide and encourage                 efficiency of its vehicle fleets and
    transportation      the use of sustainable transportation             minimize their greenhouse gas
    and land use        choices such as public transit,                   emissions.
                        alternative technology vehicles,
                        ridesharing, walking and bicycling.


                        king county will help reduce energy               king county will reduce energy
     energy and         use by its residents, business and                used in government operations.
    green building      other partners and will support
                        development of increasing amounts
                        of local renewable energy.

                        king county will support healthy,                 king county will acquire, manage
                        productive farms and privately                    and restore its parks and other
     forests and        owned forests that maximize                       natural lands in ways that maximize
     agriculture        biological carbon storage, promote                biological carbon storage and are
                        public health, and are resilient to               resilient to changing climate
                        changing climate conditions.                      conditions.


                        king county will encourage and                    king county will minimize
                        support behaviors, purchasing, and                operational resource use, maximize
     consumption        waste management strategies that                  reuse and recycling, and choose
     and materials      account for and minimize the                      products and services that have low
     management         life-cycle impacts of consumption                 environmental impacts.
                        and materials.


                        king county will work with local                  king county will plan and prepare
     preparing for      cities and other partners to prepare              for the likely impacts of climate
    climate change      for the effects of climate change on              change on county-owned facilities,
        impacts         the environment, human health and                 infrastructure and natural resources.
                        the economy.



             key meeting or
                 approaching goal
                                                   opportunity
                                                   to improve
                                                                         significant work
                                                                         necessary

4                         king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

goal area 1
transportation and land use

background
transportation accounts for nearly half of all ghg emissions produced in king county.
managing growth and providing transportation options in our region can increase the
use of public transportation, reduce ghg emissions from single occupancy vehicle
usage and traffic congestion, and create more walkable, transit-supportive urban
communities. in 2010, the puget sound regional council (psrc) set regional
transportation and environmental goals in the transportation 2040 plan. to meet the
goals of the transportation 2040 plan, public transportation must serve the travel needs
of approximately twice as many people in 2040 as in 2010. to serve that many additional
people, the region needs to provide a wide range of transportation options including bus,
vanpool, carpool, carshare, bikeshare, bicycling and walking.

king county government influences transportation-related ghg emissions by providing
public transit, commuter vans and ridesharing services and supporting walking and
bicycling alternatives – choices that eliminate or shorten private vehicle trips, mitigate
traffic congestion, and support efficient land use. metro transit is the region’s largest transit
system with 122.2 million boardings on more than 215 bus routes and commuter vans.

the county also has an extensive regional trails system with over 175 miles of trails which
provide recreational and transportation options. king county’s growth management and
land-use regulations encourage efficient land-use patterns which provide opportunities for
walking and bicycling. king county also operates an extensive vehicle fleet that supports
government operations. the county is continually working to reduce ghg emissions and
is phasing in more fuel efficient and alternative fueled vehicles. king county’s strategic
plan and scap set the direction for our actions on climate change. these plans include
strategies to focus transportation resources to support density and growth and to enhance
bicycle and pedestrian infrastructure as alternative transportation options, and to better
connect regional trails to the bus, train and ferry networks in the region. progress toward
these strategies will also serve the county’s scap, transportation and land use goals.

progress was made in several areas during 2013 toward the long-term goals of the scap
and county strategic plan. metro transit ridership has recovered to pre-recession levels
with over 122.2 million boardings on transit and commuter vans. overall ridership in the
county, including sound transit express operated by metro transit, community transit
express, link, sounder, king county commuter van program, accessible services,
and passenger-only ferries, set a record with over 148.2 million rides on all public
transportation services. ridership growth is attributed to a combination of growing


king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs     5

                                             employment and service improvements, including rapidride. metro transit has also
                                             become more efficient through efforts such as service restructuring and increased use of
                                             orca cards. other programs and actions such as the addition of vans and electric cars
                                             to the commuter van program and bike facility investments will all support a continued
                                             reduction in the drive-alone rate. meanwhile, significant advancements in fuel efficiency
                                             and new technologies are beginning to reduce net fuel consumption for king county buses,
                                             fleets, and commuters.

                                             county services
                                             climate action plan goal s.1
                                             king county will reduce the need for driving and provide and encourage the use of
                                             sustainable transportation choices such as public transit, alternative technology vehicles,
                                             ridesharing, walking and bicycling.

                                             performance measure 1
                                             annual passenger boardings on metro transit services
                                             metro transit measures its success in meeting the goals of psrc’s transportation 2040
                                             plan and king county’s climate and sustainability goals by the following target, which
                                             identifies three milestones to track growth in annual boardings between 2010 and 2040.

                                             target 1
                                             consistent with the psrc’s transportation 2040 regional transportation plan’s projection
                                             that boardings on transit services in the region will double by 2040, king county metro
                                             transit will strive to achieve the following targets:
                                             •     127 million passenger boardings by 2015
                                             •     142 million passenger boardings by 2020
                                             •     225 million passenger boardings by 2040


                                                                                                                       2013 status
                               annual transit and vanpool boardings                                                    passenger boarding targets were revised
                        140
                                                                                                              target   to include commuter van boardings.
                                                                                                               127
                                      122                                        122.2
                        120                      114.9           115.9   118.9                                         ridership on all public transportation
                              112.9                      112.4
                                                                                                                       services in king county is on the
boardings in millions




                        100
                                                                                                                       rise. metro transit’s 2013 transit and
                        80
                                                                                                                       commuter van ridership, which accounted
                                                                                         data not available




                                                                                                                       for more than 80 percent of all boardings
                        60                                                                                             in king county, was up 2.8 percent to
                                                                                                                       122.2 million. if the current ridership
                        40
                                                                                                                       trends continue, it appears that metro
                        20                                                                                             transit is on track to meet the 2015 goal
                                                                                                                       for annual passenger boardings.
                         0
                              2007    2008       2009    2010    2011    2012    2013    2014                 2015




6                                                        king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

ridership on all transit services in king county, including sound transit express operated
by metro transit, community transit express, link, sounder, king county commuter van
program, accessible services and passenger–only ferries, set a record at 148.2 million
boardings – a 3.4 percent increase over 2012.

performance measure 2
percentage of commuters in king county using different transportation modes including
driving alone, transit, biking, and walking, as measured by the washington state commute
trip reduction survey

target 2
achieve a reduction in the drive-alone rate of 10 percent below 2011 levels by 2015; the
washington state commute trip reduction board will define additional targets for 2020.

2013 status
after making significant progress
                                                   reduction in drive alone commuting 2007-2015
toward this target in 2011, king                  (as measured by the washington state commute trip reduction survey)
county worksites dipped slightly during             60%
                                                                                                                driv
the 2013/14 survey cycle. with the                                                                                   e al
                                                                                                                         one
                                                    50%
exception of bike/walk, all non-drive-
alone mode shares were either down                  40%
slightly or remained flat. between
2007 and 2013, there was a 2 percent                30%

reduction in the drive-alone rate.                                                                                 transi
                                                                                                                            t
                                                    20%
the transit mode share increased for
                                                                                                                   rideshare
a period but has returned to 2007
                                                    10%
levels, accounting for 20 percent of all                          other
                                                                                                                     bike/walk
commute trips. currently, survey data is             0%
                                                              2007/08        2009/10        2011/12       2013/14*      2015/16 target
available for only 75 percent of worksites
                                                          * 2013/14 data based on approximately 75% of ctr worksites reporting.
with the remainder to survey by the end                     final results expected q1 2015.
of 2014. two of the region’s largest
employers, microsoft and the university
of washington, have yet to submit survey
data and should have a positive impact
on the drive-alone rate and transit usage
totals when their survey data is included
in this analysis.




king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs                                          7

                                      2013 key accomplishments
                                      bus ridership in regional growth centers
                                      metro transit bus service focuses on urban centers and exemplifies how transit and efficient
                                      land use are mutually reinforcing. in spring 2013, metro transit provided 10,545 bus trips
                                      each weekday to, from, through, or between regional growth centers or manufacturing/
                                      industrial centers, as designated in the region’s growth plan. this made up 97 percent of
                                      metro transit’s daily directly operated, non-custom, scheduled trips. virtually all of metro
                                      transit’s bus trips serve one of these centers.


                                      rapidride
                                       during 2013, ridership growth on rapidride continued to outpace the overall transit
                                       system. compared to 2012, the four in-service rapidride lines experienced a combined
                                       growth of 13.8 percent, while the system-wide growth was 2.8 percent. when comparing
                                                                              rapidride ridership to predecessor routes that
                              average weekday ridership                       served the same corridor, there was a combined
                                        on rapidride                          growth of 36 percent, with individual lines ranging
                         10
                                                                              from 20 – 58 percent growth. reliability, measured
                                                                              by the ability to deliver the promised headway
                         80
boardings in thousands




                                                                              times between coaches, has been high, with all
                                                                              lines meeting their 80 percent goal. the b line
                         60                                                   – between bellevue and redmond – consistently
                                                                              exceeds 85 percent headway adherence. ridership
                         40                                                   growth is attributed to rapidride’s high service
                                                                              frequency, increased reliability, and enhanced
                         20
                                                                              passenger amenities at stations and on the buses.
                                                                              the final two rapidride lines will go into service
                                                                              in 2014 – the e line between shoreline and
                          0
                              a line      b line     c line     d line        downtown seattle in february and the f line
                                  predecessor routes           2013           between burien and renton in june.


                                      commuter van program
                                      metro transit’s commuter van program is the nation’s largest publicly owned and operated
                                      rideshare commuter van program. in 2013, the program provided more than 3.5 million
                                      passenger trips, reduced approximately 21,000 metric tons of ghg emissions and
                                      eliminated over 53 million vehicle miles traveled from puget sound roads — significant
                                      traffic and ghg emission reduction achievements. between 2012 and 2013, passenger
                                      trips increased 3 percent, and the number of vans in service grew to 1,365 which now
                                      exceeds the number of buses in service during peak hours.




8                                             king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

five new all-electric nissan leafs were                                      monthly commuter vans ridership 2012-13
                                                                           350
added to the metropool fleet in late
                                                                                                        monthly
2013, for a total of 25 vehicles. this                                     300
specialized fleet saved more than 10,000




                                                  ridership in thousands
gallons of gas per year over traditional                                   250
                                                                                     12 month rolling average
gas-powered commuter vans and                                                        commuter van ridership
                                                                           200
eliminated 232 metric tons of tailpipe
emissions.                                                                 150


                                                                           100
commute trip reduction
the commute trip reduction (ctr)                  50

program continues to be a key element of
                                                   0
the region’s transportation strategy. metro                       2012                                               2013

transit and local partners have strong
outreach efforts and partnerships with major institutions, cities, employers, and other
organizations to encourage alternatives to driving alone to work. employer transit benefit
programs have become ever more important to moving employees throughout the region.
employer programs now account for 65 percent of orca fare revenue. through these
efforts, employees at the more than 500 ctr–affected worksites (regulated by the state’s
ctr law) remove nearly 15,000 cars from the area’s roads each week.


ctr and regional growth centers                                                  performance of commute trip reduction
commute trip reduction worksites located                                                  worksites in 2013-14
within the 17 regional growth centers
                                                                                                                in regional
in king county continue to outperform                                                                             growth       not
sites located outside the regional growth                                                                     centers (rgcs) in rgcs
centers. worksites inside regional growth                                 all drive alone rate                    39.6%      72.6%
                                                                  king county
centers in king county continued to                                 worksites % change 2007-2013                  -12.2%     +9.4%
progress and see reductions in both their
drive-alone rate and vehicle miles traveled                                                                       49.4%
                                                                              city of drive alone rate                        71.3%
per employee. however, sites outside the                                     bellevue % change 2007-2013          -12.8%      +7.1%
regional growth centers reversed their
trend of reducing drive-alone trips and                                          city of drive alone rate         29.2%      56.2%
now have drive-alone rates higher than the                                       seattle
                                                                                         % change 2007-2013       -5.8%      +13.8%
2007 baseline. transit ridership at the
ctr sites in the regional growth centers                                               goal: 10% reduction in drive-alone rate
is significantly higher than at sites outside
the regional growth centers. one third
of all commute trips to sites in regional
growth centers are made using transit
compared to only 5.5 percent outside the
regional growth centers.



king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs                                       9

     in motion
     metro transit partners with local communities to encourage residents to use healthier travel
     options like the bus, carpooling, bicycling and walking through the in motion program. in
     2013, the in motion team took on two projects to improve program effectiveness: a complete
     evaluation of the program and development of a unique approach to working with multifamily
     residences. key recommendations from the program evaluation included updating the program
     brand and use of technology to be more contemporary, deepening engagement with limited
     english population (lep) communities, expanding the role of champions/community advocates,
     and implementing a legacy survey component to track long term change in travel behavior.

     in partnership with the seattle department of transportation, a multifamily project will
     test varied levels of property manager involvement at six buildings in the south lake union
     and bitter lake neighborhoods. these projects will be implemented in spring 2014. three
     neighborhood-level in motion projects are also planned for 2014: one along the e line and
     two more in the burien/tukwila and renton neighborhoods. these projects will apply several of
     the recommendations from the program review and will feature online interactive maps, more
     effective engagement with lep households, and a branding refresh of program materials and
     the website. the in motion program will also serve as the centerpiece of metro transit’s i-405
     “moving communities to action” trip reduction campaign in 2014, in partnership with local
     jurisdictions along the corridor.


     county operations
     climate action plan goal o.1
     king county will increase the efficiency of its vehicle fleets and minimize their ghg emissions.

     performance measure 1
     energy use by county vehicles

     target 1
     in its vehicle operations, king county shall reduce normalized net energy use, compared to a
     2007 baseline, by at least 10 percent by 2015.

     2013 status
     net vehicle fleet energy consumption decreased by 3.3 percent between 2007 and 2013.
     significant reductions in fuel use were achieved in a number of areas. most notable are the
     reductions in fuel use for the county’s passenger vehicle and light truck fleets. total fuel use by
     the county’s general fleet declined 12 percent between 2007 and 2013 due to the continued
     replacement of older cars and trucks with more fuel efficient hybrids and other alternative fueled
     and advanced technology vehicles; rightsizing vehicles and engines; reducing the overall size of
     the fleet; retention and reassignment of some of the most fuel efficient vehicles; and expansion
     of the daily rental (motor pool) dispatch system. metro transit’s fleet fuel use increased 4
     percent from 2007 to 2013 as transit service hours increased. however, when normalizing fuel
     use for increased ridership, metro transit saw a 3 percent reduction in total fuel use from 2007
     to 2013. fuel consumption by the solid waste fleet continues to decline as a result of the
     ability to optimize semi-trailer hauling weights from the transfer stations to the landfill.

10                king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

2013 key accomplishments
hybrid fleet expansion
metro transit took delivery of 43 60-foot articulated hybrid buses in 2013. by the end
of 2013, approximately 52 percent of metro transit’s bus fleet was composed of diesel-
electric hybrid buses. the new diesel-electric hybrid buses are approximately 30 percent
more energy and ghg efficient than the diesel buses that were replaced.

in addition to the purchase of hybrid buses, metro transit is also purchasing hybrid support
vehicles. in 2013, metro transit purchased four hybrid vehicles and since 2007, metro
transit has purchased a total of 59 hybrid vehicles; this is 18 percent of all support vehicle
purchases.


carrying more people more efficiently
the average fuel efficiency (miles per gallon) of metro transit’s bus fleet has remained
relatively steady in recent years. this is mainly because even though older diesel buses
have been replaced by newer, more fuel-efficient diesel-electric hybrids, 40-foot, high-floor
coaches have been replaced by 60-foot low-floor articulated coaches that consume more
fuel on a per-vehicle basis, offsetting the hybrids’ efficiency gains.

fortunately, the 60-foot buses carry about one third more passengers than the 40-foot
coaches and greatly increase the overall ridership capacity necessary to achieve metro
transit’s ridership growth targets. when evaluated in terms of passenger capacity rather
than vehicle miles, fleet fuel efficiency improved by approximately 7 percent since 2007.


consistent fleet standards
king county fleet managers continue to work together in developing and implementing
uniform standards for light-duty vehicles in order to minimize lifecycle costs. the standards
for the various types of business needs include service intervals, optimum and maximum
lifecycle and new vehicle purchases. in 2013, the group also explored joint purchasing
opportunities for biodiesel and arranged to have presentations on compressed natural gas
and liquefied petroleum gas from industry experts to determine the current state of these
alternative fuels and assess the extent to which either fuel might be suitable for the various
applications in the county’s light-duty fleets. the goal is to provide the most cost effective
solution for providing the large variety of county services while reducing the carbon
footprint of the county’s light-duty fleet.


light-duty hybrid vehicle purchases
of the 205 light-duty vehicles purchased by fleet administration and solid waste divisions
in 2013, 78 were hybrid vehicles, or 38 percent of the total light-duty vehicles purchased
for the year. thirteen of the 78 replaced existing hybrids and 65, or 62 percent, replaced
regular internal combustion engine vehicles.




king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs   11

                  employee outreach and commute trip reduction programs
                  as part of ongoing efforts to educate employees, king county employee transportation
                  program (etp) employees, along with commute trip reduction employees, visited 10
                  primary county worksites to promote eco-driver concepts and alternative commute options.
                  simple changes in driving habits can reduce fuel consumption by as much as 15 percent.

                  in 2013, etp employees conducted the ctr survey at 11 ctr-affected king county
                  worksites. survey results showed that king county employees continue to utilize
                  alternatives to driving alone at a high rate: 63 percent of king county employees at
                  surveyed locations reduced drive-alone trips by taking transit, sharing a ride, biking,
                  walking or telecommuting. at downtown seattle worksites, use of alternative modes is even
                  higher, with over 80 percent of employees opting to not drive alone and 60 percent of
                  downtown employees using transit.


                  northeast novelty hill road project
                   king county road projects improve mobility as land-use patterns evolve, and incorporate
                   sustainable design features to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the northeast novelty
                   hill road project incorporated a variety of sustainable design features as part of a major
                                                    arterial corridor improvement project to improve mobility
                                                    and reduce congestion east of the city of redmond. this
                                                    project includes roundabouts, wildlife habitat mitigation,
                                                    reuse of materials, and low impact development features
                                                    including pervious pavement, porous sidewalks and
                                                    shoulders, and bio-retention swales. the project also
                                                    includes pedestrian and non-motorized transportation
                                                    improvements. there were no additional costs associated
                                                    with achieving the targeted platinum level using the
                                                    king county sustainable infrastructure scorecard. the
                                                    project estimates over 25,000 metric tons in greenhouse
196th ave. ne at perrigo park of the                gas emission savings, avoids energy use associated with
novelty hill road project showing                   stoplights and reduces fuel use from traffic idling at
porous asphalt shoulders                            red lights.


                  regional trails system expansion
                  in early 2013, king county secured ownership of 15.6 miles of the eastside rail corridor,
                  preserving the former rail line for future use as a multi-use corridor including regional trail
                  and transportations uses, as well as for other public uses and connecting communities
                  from renton to woodinville and redmond. in june, the newly developed 2.2-mile issaquah
                  segment of the east lake sammamish trail opened to the public, providing a multi-use
                  path for trail users of all ages and abilities. additionally, planning and design continues on
                  the renton, seatac and burien segments of the 16-mile lake to sound trail. construction
                  is anticipated to begin in early 2015.




12                         king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

                                                                                                                                   project profile:




                                                                                                                                                                       south kirkland transit oriented development
metro transit’s new three-
story garage on the
bellevue-kirkland border
utilized the sustainable
infrastructure scorecard
and opened in september
2013. a neighboring built
green mixed-use housing
project is scheduled
for completion in 2014.
together, the garage and
housing make up a transit-
oriented development
with holistic green building
strategies, successfully
concentrating housing and     south kirkland transit oriented development project.
a transit hub to reduce
the need to drive or own a vehicle. the 242-unit housing development uses the evergreen
sustainable development standard and will include 61 affordable units for occupants
whose incomes are at 30, 40 or 60 percent of the king county median income. the
garage has seven electric vehicle spaces with charging stations and two rows of bike racks.
additional sustainable achievements include the use of permeable pavement, low impact
development, water efficient irrigation, energy efficient elevators and lighting, and cement
substitutes. the park-and-ride serves various metro and sound transit routes.




challenges & opportunities
funding shortfalls
to be consistent with our region’s long range
                                                                                                                 metro transit service needs
transportation plan, metro transit will need to
                                                                estimated annual service hours (millions)




                                                                                                            7
provide approximately twice as much public                                                                                                                            lan
                                                                                                                                                                  040p
transportation service in 2040 as it did in 2010.                                                                                                               c2
                                                                                                                                                             psr
                                                                                                            6

the region’s long-term transportation plan – psrc’s
                                                                                                            5
transportation 2040 – is the source of king county’s                                                                                                         system growth
transit service targets (shown in red on the graph)                                                                                                          sustain system
                                                                                                            4
and is based on this premise. to date, no funding
                                                                                                                                                             current budget
has been identified for this growth in transit service,
                                                                                                            3
nor have revenues been identified to fund the                                                                     16% cut = 550,000 annual service hours.
                                                                                                                  cuts start in 2014 with 150,000 hours.
immediate service priorities identified in metro’s                                                          2
transit service guidelines. these needs (shown in
green) would require approximately 10 percent more                                                          1
                                                                                                                2015      2020        2025        2030      2035      2040
service than metro transit provided in 2012.

king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs                                                                                  13

     for more than five years, metro transit has taken extraordinary actions to preserve bus
     service while experiencing a $1.2 billion shortfall in sales tax revenue caused by the
     recession. metro transit cut more than 100 staff positions, improved operating efficiency,
     raised fares five times, dug into reserve funds, and took many other steps to save or raise
     about $800 million from 2009 through 2013. however, without additional tools to close
     the large, ongoing budget gap, service levels must be reduced to balance the budget.

     currently, metro transit is planning to cut up to 550,000 hours in annual service, with
     service reductions beginning in fall 2014 and continuing into 2015. overall, metro transit
     expects to reduce service by 16 percent. this reduction is due to an annual budget shortfall
     of $75 million attributable to falling sales tax revenues – metro transit’s largest source of
     funding. sales tax revenues have grown in recent years but is still below inflation adjusted
     2008 revenues.



     looking forward
     updating and expanding transportation equipment
     in addition to tackling the funding challenge, the county faces the pressing need to expand
     types and quantities of transportation equipment. there is not a “one size fits all” solution
     to the variety of business needs and vehicle and equipment solutions for the county’s
     fleets. while electric vehicles may work in certain circumstances, the vast expanse of the
     county service area prohibits widespread use because of current technology limitations. the
     county will continue to search for the best solutions to effectively meet its specific business
     needs.

     for metro transit, the vision for a future fleet is one driven by clean electric energy. as a
     transition toward this vision, metro transit will utilize electric trolleys and diesel-electric
     hybrid buses. this will support the transition toward a truly all electric transit bus as the
     battery propulsion technology matures. metro transit has numerous projects under way
     to help enhance the efficiency of fleet vehicles, reduce emissions and test innovative
     technologies, as highlighted below.
     •   trolley fleet replacement – metro transit was awarded a contract in summer 2013
         for the purchase of a new fleet of electric trolley buses. the replacement trolley buses
         will have off-wire capability provided by an on-board electric energy system and will
         be more efficient than current dc-powered vehicles. the result will be a zero emission
         trolley bus system that can operate without interruptions due to construction projects,
         reducing fuel consumption and ghg emissions relative to the existing trolley fleet
         which frequently cannot be used on weekends when construction often occurs.




14           king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

•   diesel bus replacement – metro transit is continuing to acquire diesel-electric hybrid
    buses to replace the aging diesel fleet. a total of 43 60-foot low floor hybrid coaches
    were delivered in 2013 to serve the new rapidride lines e and f. these hybrid buses
    are up to 30 percent more fuel efficient than the diesels they replace. metro transit
    has a contract to purchase an additional 120 hybrid coaches (both 35- and 40-foot
    coaches) to replace existing diesel coaches beginning in 2014.
•   battery bus pilot project – metro transit is at the forefront of public transportation
    technology with its all electric, zero-emissions heavy duty transit bus pilot program.
    initial bids received for the $5 million federally funded battery powered bus project
    in 2012 were rejected due to technological limitations on travel range and charging,
    and the project was re-bid in 2013. a contract should be awarded in mid-2014 with
    expected delivery in 2014-2015. if successful, battery-powered buses may become the
    transit fleet of the future.
•   electric vehicle subcomponents – metro transit is initiating the use of electric
    subcomponents on transit vehicles by replacing components that are traditionally
    driven off belts and gears from the engine, such as cooling fans. electric engine fan
    cooling systems are expected to improve fuel efficiency on coaches by up to 5 percent.
    additional benefits associated with these upgrades include better reliability, lower
    emissions, easier maintenance, and improved bus performance.
•   eco-driving/connect – metro transit will test onboard telematics and operational
    monitoring systems to promote gentler acceleration, braking, turning and reduced idling
    in a limited number of hybrid coaches in 2014. such techniques have been shown to
    reduce fuel use by approximately 6 percent.

as metro transit moves ahead to upgrade the fleet, it will use the adopted strategic plan
for public transportation to guide potential investments in new services. demand for metro
transit’s services is growing even as service reductions are planned. metro transit will strive
to configure its services to attract the maximum gains in ridership to ultimately reduce ghg
emissions in king county.




king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs   15

16   king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

goal area 2
energy and green building

background
residential, commercial and industrial buildings account for approximately 50 percent of
community scale ghg emissions generated in king county. the county is continuing to
reduce the impacts of its buildings and facilities through such actions as: more efficient
operation of existing buildings; efficient design and construction of new facilities; meeting
energy needs with renewable resources resulting from county operations; and taking
advantage of cost-effective opportunities to generate renewable energy. energy continues to
be a major cost to the county, and reducing this expense will contribute to king county’s
ability to maintain critical services.

king county has set aggressive energy efficiency and sustainable development goals in
the 2010 energy plan (ordinance 13368), the 2012 scap, and 2013 green building
ordinance (ordinance 17709). in addition, king county’s strategic plan includes
objectives to minimize its operational environmental footprint, limit costs to support
county services, and plan for long-term sustainability. advancing energy, green building
and sustainable development goals ensure progress toward achieving the objectives and
strategies in the king county strategic plan.

on a communitywide level, the king county greentools program continues to collaborate
with regional residential, construction and city stakeholders to increase green building
activity in the private sector. the greentools program has provided substantial support
through technical assistance to city jurisdictions and non-profit partners, in addition
to convening these groups through the regional code collaboration and roundtable
lecture series.

county services
climate action plan goal s.2
king county will help reduce energy use by county residents and by business and other
partners and will support development of increasing amounts of local renewable energy.


performance measure 1
percentage of energy produced, used, or procured by the county that is renewable energy

target 1
produce, use or procure renewable energy equal to at least 50 percent of total county net
energy requirements on an ongoing basis.


king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs   17

                2013 status
                year-end renewable energy generation and use
                at the end of 2013, the county was exceeding its 50 percent renewable energy goal, with
                an estimated 52.4 percent and more than 1.98 million of british thermal units (mmbtu) of
                the county government’s energy needs being produced, used or procured through renewable
                sources.

                key contributors to the county’s success with renewables continue to be the cedar hills
                regional landfill bioenergy washington (bew) plant and the wastewater treatment division
                (wtd), whose renewable energy generation efforts included beginning full operations at the
                west point treatment plant cogeneration facility. net renewable energy generation was down
                compared to the previous year, due to a pipe break and resulting two-week shutdown of bew
                in december, and an extended shutdown of the south treatment plant gas scrubber caused by
                both mechanical and digester issues. these shutdowns highlight the challenges of generating
                renewable energy from biogas, given the inconsistent nature of the gas feedstock, and the
                complicated processes required to purify gas for beneficial uses.


                performance measure 2
                percentage of residential housing development in king county that is built green or
                leed-certified

                target 2
                the 2012 scap indicated that a residential green building target would be developed as
                part of king county’s 2013 green building and sustainable development ordinance. king
                county’s updated green building policy was adopted in december 2013 and focused on green
                building standards for government owned facilities and infrastructure. a new residential green
                building target is currently in development - to include built green, evergreen sustainable
                development and leed residential certification standards - and will be included in the 2015
                scap update.

                2013 status
                in 2013, 20 percent of new single-family and multi-family homes combined were constructed
                to the built green 3-5 star level of certification.



     u.s. green building council (usgbc) response to king county
     adopting new green building ordinance
     best in class: king county, wa leads by platinum example
     “exceptional leadership is derived from exceptional people and the worlds they choose to
     create. county executive constantine, his staff, and our colleagues at the cascadia green
     building council have been setting a high bar for sustainability leadership in the pacific
     northwest for years, and this latest action is in keeping with their unwavering commitment
     to a future that benefits every citizen in the county.”
            – rick fedrizzi, usgbc president, ceo and founding chairman

18                        king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

2013 key accomplishments
2013 government confluence
the highlight of this year’s program was the semi-annual greentools government
confluence co-sponsored by the cascadia green building council. topics ranged from
rooftop gardening to resiliency impacts and sustainable transit. the confluence was
produced in conjunction with the living future conference, giving attendees access to
presenters from outside the region and north america. the confluence also provided
continuing education credits for architects, engineers and green building experts via the
american institute of architects, american planning association, the u.s. green building
council (usgbc) and the living future institute. the may 15 confluence was combined
with the living future unconference, bringing collaboration through partnership with the
cascadia green building council. regional, state, national and international leaders came
together with government employees and elected officials with the goal of kick-starting or
enhancing their green building initiatives. the 2013 gathering proved to be the largest
confluence to date, with some 300 people representing 31 cities, five counties, five states,
the district of columbia, as well as international participants from canada, germany,
mexico, and the netherlands. executive constantine was the keynote speaker for this event.


providing green building assistance to diverse audiences
the king county greentools program developed its first vietnamese-language materials
with a green remodel guide. the piece was specifically developed to address the needs
of the vietnamese community with custom graphics and information tailored to serve a
growing audience. outreach efforts included a sustainable cities roundtable featuring vu
lee, director of the vietnamese friendship association, and distributing 4,000 guides in
28 locations throughout king county.

greentools also provided technical assistance to new senior housing projects in normandy
park and redmond. the greenworks project in normandy park is comprised of 10
townhomes built in the early 1970s. the project is anticipating a solar array for the
community center, rain gardens for the site and two whole house remodels. redmond
senior housing, owned by the city of redmond, consists of 75 units of affordable senior
housing plus a commercial tenant space.

king county greentools produced a detailed workshop with national green building leader
and universal design expert sim van der ryn, a senior himself at the age of 85, who
brought his unique perspective to a small group of interested industry, government and
community leaders.


regional code collaboration
the regional code collaboration is a multi-jurisdictional group of planners and code
officials from both within and outside king county that have come together to develop
and update green codes to advance sustainability and green building practices. it consists
of over 40 members representing 12 cities and three counties. in 2013, the greentools
program convened the regional code collaboration with the city of seattle to continue the

king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs   19

                               momentum started in 2012. the cities of issaquah, seattle and shoreline were the first to
                               successfully pass their code packages. king county legislated the development of a cutting-
                               edge demonstration ordinance for the living building challenge, which was unveiled in
                               2013 and included in the newly passed green building ordinance.


                               west point cogeneration
                               by year-end 2013, the cogeneration system at the west point wastewater treatment plant
                               was in full operation. the 2.3-megawatt system is anticipated to generate more than 17
                               million kilowatt hours of electricity each year, in addition to providing valuable heat for the
                               treatment plant. moving to full operation of the cogeneration plant was a multi-year effort,
                               dating back to the decommissioning of the former, outdated cogeneration plant in 2007.
                               the electricity from the west point cogeneration plant is sold to seattle city light, and is
                               marketed as green energy. the heat from the cogeneration system is used to heat the plant
                               and digesters, offsetting energy used to generate heat from propane or direct biogas use.



                               county operations
                               climate action plan goal o.2

                               king county will reduce the amount of energy used in government operations.


                                  king county government operations
                                   normalized energy use in facilities
                         1.5




                         1.4
     trillions of btus




                         1.3                                                           target



                         1.2




                         1.1
                                 2007     2008      2009     2010      2011     2012       2013




                               performance measure 1
                               energy use at county facilities

                               target 1
                               king county will reduce normalized net energy use from government operations in its
                               buildings and facilities, as compared to a 2007 baseline, by at least 10 percent by 2012,
                               at least 15 percent by 2015, and 20 percent by 2020.


20                                      king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

2013 status
king county achieved an 8.5 percent normalized energy use reduction between 2007
and 2013. raw energy use was down over 13 percent in tracked facilities, which was
normalized to the lower figure due to milder weather. departments and divisions across
county government continue to pursue energy efficiency investments that demonstrate
notable energy reductions. specifically, the metro transit and wastewater treatment divisions
have been investing millions of dollars in efficient mechanical and lighting systems that are
producing energy and costs savings. investments are continuing in 2014, and are focused on
achieving a clear path toward meeting the 15 percent energy use reduction target by 2015,
and the 20 percent reduction goal by 2020.

2013 key accomplishments


new 2013 green building ordinance adopted
the metropolitan king county council approved an update to the green building ordinance
that includes improvements to meet long-term county goals. the ordinance establishes
minimum performance requirements for energy, emissions, stormwater management, and
construction and demolition materials diversion, while raising the certification goal for
capital projects to platinum using the leed and sustainable infrastructure scorecard rating
systems. it also supports flexibility by allowing alternative green building rating systems, such
as built green and living building challenge.

in support of equity and social justice efforts, department of community and human
services (dchs) staff worked with affordable housing stakeholders to include county funded
affordable housing projects in the new ordinance. this will recognize the green building
achievements the stakeholders and staff have accomplished using the evergreen sustainable
development standard, an existing green building practice for equitable access to improved
public health, air quality, and walkable communities for homeless and low-income residents.


green community initiative
king county worked with the washington state housing finance commission (wshfc)
to establish a green community initiative that facilitates access to qualified energy
conservation bonds (qecbs) for community businesses, governments and non-profit
organizations. the qecbs are a federal buy-down of interest rates for project bond
financing, thereby offering extremely attractive interest rates for energy and other
environmentally-beneficial projects. the green community initiative framework established
between king county and wshfc also served as a template for kitsap county’s green
community initiative.


green building compliance
green building activity by king county agencies in 2013 consisted of seven leed projects
and 280 projects using the king county sustainable infrastructure scorecard. this
represents 98 percent of all capital projects, which is an improvement over the 92.5 percent
compliance in 2012.

king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs     21

                  energy efficiency facility renovations
                  many king county facilities tackled energy saving retrofits in 2013. examples include:
                  south treatment plant lighting
                  the south treatment plant began a comprehensive lighting retrofit project that is replacing
                  over 4,000 of the plant’s lamps with led and induction lighting technologies. the resulting
                  lamps will save on energy while reducing maintenance costs. the two-phase project will
                  be completed in 2014 and is on track to reduce electricity use by over 800,000 kwh
                  and $60,000 per year, while bringing in over $260,000 of rebate money from puget
                  sound energy.

                                                                    downtown seattle transit tunnel
                                                                    lighting upgrades
                                                                    metro transit’s lighting efficiency program
                                                                    began in 2012, targeting various transit
                                                                    bases, support facilities and downtown
                                                                    seattle transit tunnel (dstt) stations. in
                                                                    2013, 11 lighting upgrade projects were
                                                                    completed at all five dstt stations, resulting
                                                                    in estimated annual savings of more than
                                                                    477,000 kwh, $30,000 in utility costs and
                                                                    260 metric tons of avoided ghg emissions.
                                                                    in addition, metro transit received over
                                                                    $99,000 in energy conservation incentives
energy efficient lighting upgrades in the dstt –                    from seattle city light for these upgrades.
westlake station
                                                                    the lighting efficiency program will continue
                                                                    in 2014 at the dstt, transit facilities and
                                                                    park-and-ride facilities.

                  energy awareness campaign
                  for the second year in a row, king county conducted a fall energy awareness effort, to
                  educate employees on actions they can take to contribute to reduction efforts. three
                  trainings were offered to county employees focused on energy conservation. these trainings
                  provide resources and examples to support employees to meet the county’s energy targets.
                  attendees learned about energy auditing and assessments, low cost energy and water
                  saving actions, cost effective energy investments and king county’s green operations
                  and maintenance guidelines handbook. in addition, three monthly newsletters were
                  published, and hundreds of employees attended energy awareness events. more than 1,300
                  employees took a pledge to reduce their energy use. the fall energy awareness effort will
                  be an annual event to engage employees in conservation activities at the beginning of each
                  heating season.




22                        king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

                                                                                   project profile:




                                                                                                      metro transit north base bus garage
                                                                                                                      ventilation project
metro transit replaced seven bus
garage ventilation fans and related
equipment at the north base
transit facility in 2013. this project
is projected to save approximately
2 million kwh per year, equivalent to
over $116,000 in annual savings. in
addition, metro transit received over
$450,000 in incentive payments
from seattle city light for this
project. project elements that
support energy efficiency goals
included air quality monitoring
systems to bring in the proper
amount of fresh air, high-efficiency
lighting in the fan rooms and
variable speed fan motor starters.
an integral project element was
installation of controls to ensure fans
come on when certain atmospheric
conditions require them (i.e., when
nitrous oxide and carbon monoxide        installing new ventilation fans at the metro transit
                                         north base garage.
gas levels require ventilation). this is
a major contributing factor to the reduced electricity requirement, as the fans run when
needed, rather than on a timer, which results in to less run time and less energy use.



partnership with built green
in an effort to increase the number of projects using green-building rating systems, king
county greentools has partnered with the master builders association’s built green
program for many years. it is estimated that by the end of 2017, residential construction
units will exceed pre-recession levels, and 35 percent of all new construction could
be built green, leed, evergreen or living building certified. built green is one of the
only regional rating systems in the country to have certifications for retrofits, whole
house remodels and new construction. partnership efforts in 2013 included an annual
conference, held at the brightwater education center, providing education to developers
and builders, opening the zhome stewardship center, and further development of a carbon
neutral standard called emerald star.




king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs                               23

                                                                 maleng regional justice center
                                                                 executive constantine, district court chief
                                                                 presiding judge corinna harn, and other local
                                                                 leaders formally opened newly renovated space
                                                                 in the maleng regional justice center in kent in
                                                                 november. the $8.2 million remodeling project
                                                                 delivered five new courtrooms and support space
                                                                 for the king county district court. it also added
                                                                 a new security screening area and a reconfigured
                                                                 rotunda. the improvements made in the new
                                                                 district court area of the building make it the
                                                                 first king county-owned courthouse eligible
dignitaries at the grand opening event of                        for leed platinum certification. some of the
maleng regional justice center                                   green building attributes include: 96 percent
                                                                 construction and demolition diversion rate from
                    landfills; water efficiency fixtures and appliances reduce water use by 30 percent; energy
                    efficient lighting systems reduce energy loads by 35 percent; 100 percent led lighting
                    in the courtrooms; 100 percent green power through puget sound energy; low or no
                    volatile organic compound-emitting materials; and 50 percent of the wood used is forest
                    stewardship council certified. these green building measures minimize king county’s
                    operational environmental footprint and reduces operations and utility costs from lower
                    energy and water bills. these improvements also increase the longevity of the facility and
                    reduce maintenance needs.


                   challenges & opportunities
                   energy conservation goal
                   the county is continuing to make investments and take actions toward meeting its
                   15 percent energy reduction goal by 2015. the goal is attainable, and raw energy use in
                   2013 is down over 13 percent since 2007 at facilities being tracked. county divisions
                   are assessing and planning the actions that will be needed to achieve the 15 percent and
                   20 percent reduction goals.

                   county employees began meeting in 2013 to address access to funding for energy
                   efficiency projects. as part of the 2015-2016 budget cycle, a framework has been
                   established for departments and divisions to propose projects and access 10-year loans
                   that will be paid back from utility savings. this approach is intended to help overcome the
                   financial barrier for project implementation, by helping to fund projects that can pay for
                   themselves in 10 years or less. also by the end of 2013, by leveraging a utility grant, a
                   comprehensive and customized building operator certification training series was put in
                   place. this eight-day training program, to take place in 2014, will educate more than 40
                   county employees on specific energy efficiency opportunities in buildings.




24                         king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

looking forward
continued growth in renewables production
in 2014, the west point cogeneration plant will have its first full year of operation, which
will contribute to the county’s renewable energy efforts. the south treatment plant is
focused on ensuring the gas scrubbing system remains operational, to maximize renewable
energy output. as of early 2014, king county received a $525,000 grant from the state
of washington department of commerce for installing a 104 kilowatt photovoltaic array on
the roof of the weyerhaeuser king county aquatic center. this array will be among the 10
largest systems in the state, and the largest with panels and inverters manufactured within
the state.


project information center database
the office of performance, strategy and budget is working on expanding the countywide
capital project information center database to include green building performance
measurement criteria. this will streamline reporting requirements and increase the ability
for comprehensive data collection, analysis and use in optimizing design decisions in future
projects.


life cycle cost analysis
refinements were made to a life cycle cost analysis (lcca) tool as a resource to county
and city employees to assist and determine cost effective energy and green building
investments. further improvements will be made to the lcca tool and trainings will be
provided to employees.


operational savings
king county is committed to reducing energy and resource use within its portfolio of
facilities, vehicles, and through the services it provides. the county has aggressive policies
and guidelines mandating energy and resource reductions, and employees are carefully
monitoring progress. in 2014, the county will be working with all available sources of
energy and resource consumption data to pinpoint operational enhancement opportunities
which will reduce resource use and operating costs throughout its facilities.


upcoming projects
future green building and energy efficiency projects include:
•   children and family justice center – this project will include a newly constructed
    courthouse, juvenile detention facility and a parking structure at the existing youth
    service center. the project established high energy conservation and green building
    goals in the facility performance standards during its procurement process.




king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs   25

     •   energy efficiency – king county received a $500,000 washington state energy
         efficiency grant to partially fund a mechanical system energy efficiency project at the
         weyerhaeuser king county aquatic center, and a lighting retrofit project at the west
         point treatment plant.
     •   lake to sound trail – segment b of the trail project includes building 1.5 miles of
         10- to 12-foot-wide trail on the east shoulder of des moines memorial drive and
         connecting the cities of seatac and burien. some of the green building strategies in the
         design phase are pervious asphalt paving, a goal of diverting 95 percent of construction
         and demolition materials, treating 75 percent of stormwater through low impact
         development techniques, and using high recycled-content or renewable materials.




26           king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

goal area 3
forests and agriculture

background
king county’s forests and farms provide significant environmental, social, and economic
benefits. forests and farms offer important recreational opportunities, improve air quality,
and provide food, water and cover for endangered salmon, wildlife and people. these same
forests and farms provide employment in wood, paper, recreation, tourism, fishing and
agricultural industries. healthy forests and sustainable farms can also help reduce local
climate change impacts while reducing local sources of ghg emissions.

this goal area directly ties to the kcsp objective “reduce climate pollution” as well as the
objective to “encourage sustainable agriculture and forestry.” it also directly relates to king
county’s open space plan (2010), which provides the policy framework for the county’s
acquisition, development, stewardship, management, and funding of king county’s open
space system.

king county has taken significant action to encourage sustainable land management
practices and to help permanently protect privately-owned forest and agricultural lands
through tax incentives, conservation easements, preservation programs, and public
education and outreach. the county is also demonstrating leadership through careful
stewardship of county owned lands.

th county increased conservation acreage through the open space and forestland current
use taxation programs, agricultural land preservation, conservation easements, and forest
planning and stewardship throughout 2013.


county services
climate action plan goal s.3
king county will support healthy, productive farms and privately owned forests that
maximize biological carbon storage, promote public health, and are resilient to changing
climate conditions.

performance measure 1
privately owned rural2 acreage that has stewardship plans or is enrolled in open
space (rcw 84.34) and forestland (rcw 84.33) designated current use taxation
incentive programs

2
    for this report, “rural” refers to all rural-zoned and agriculture-zoned land in king county, including on vashon island but
    excluding the forest production district. an additional 200,000 acres of commercial timberlands in the forest production
    district are designated forestland for current use taxation.

king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs                                    27

     target 1
     500 additional acres per year of privately owned rural acreage that has stewardship plans or
     is enrolled in current use taxation incentive programs

     2013 status
     in 2013, 660 new acres were enrolled in open space and forest land designated current
     use taxation incentive programs or completed stewardship plans, exceeding the annual
     target. at the end of 2013, there were approximately 65,600 rural acres enrolled in these
     programs, which provide significant property tax incentives to encourage landowners to
     voluntarily conserve, protect and manage open space and forestland.


     performance measure 2
     privately owned forestlands permanently conserved through easements that remove the
     development rights

     target 2
     200,000 forest acres permanently conserved through easements that remove the
     development rights by 2016

     2013 status
     in 2013, king county conserved an additional 550 acres of forested land in rural zones
     of king county near the boundaries of the forest production district. the 550 acres of
     newly conserved forestland resulted from a total of five transactions: four fee purchases
     totaling 450 acres and one transfer of development rights (tdr) easement purchase on an
     additional 100 acres.

     there are now more than 142,100 acres of forestland protected through king county’s
     tdr program. since 2004, public tdr transactions have protected more than 96,000
     acres and private transactions have protected nearly 46,000 acres. fee purchases of an
     additional 15,500 acres of forestlands bring the total to nearly 158,000 acres of forest
     lands permanently conserved.


     performance measure 3
     king county agricultural lands permanently conserved through easements that remove the
     development rights

     target 3
     in 2014, the water and land resources division (wlrd) will continue to collaborate
     with the king county agriculture commission to develop targets for the number of
     acres preserved in the farmland preservation program. under the county’s new food
     economy initiative, wlrd will also partner with the commission and develop appropriate
     partnerships to increase agricultural production.




28           king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

2013 status
the farmland preservation program began in 1979 when the voters of king county
approved an initiative authorizing the county to preserve rapidly diminishing farmland
by purchasing conservation easements. during the 1980s, king county acquired the
development rights on 12,600 acres of high quality farmland within its boundaries. the
county has continued to purchase development rights on select properties and by the
end of 2013 approximately 13,500 acres had been permanently protected through this
program. wlrd also supports farming in king county by assisting with drainage, flood
risk reduction, marketing, cost share for resource improvement practices, and other issues
affecting farm productivity. the division will continue to evaluate how best to encourage
increased agricultural production.




in december 2013, king county acquired nearly 200 acres of rich snoqualmie valley farmland – an
abandoned golf course known as the “tall chief” property. this fertile land that was recently threatened
with development will be returned to farming, helping sequester carbon in soil, creating more jobs for rural
residents, supporting a more robust local food supply, and ensuring an even stronger “wall against sprawl.”


2013 key accomplishments
forest stewardship courses and workshops
over 100 forest landowners expanded their forest management skills in county-sponsored
trainings and seminars in 2013. opportunities ranged from forest stewardship planning
classes, to demonstrations of silvicultural techniques, wildlife habitat enhancement, timber
harvest planning, and forestry economic development forums. a summer 2013 forestry
economic development twilight tour on vashon island highlighted the use of locally-grown
and locally milled wood on the island. additionally, in 2013, the county partnered with the
cascade harvest coalition to create a puget sound grown website, complete with mobile
app and gis map connections, to promote local forest products and connect wood users
and forest landowners.


king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs                29

                                            firewise communities
                                            well-managed forests with sufficient growing space for
                                            trees are not only healthier and more drought tolerant,
                                            they are less susceptible to wildfire. the county
                                            promotes firewise practices for healthy forests – such
                                            as allowing for sufficient growing space for trees and
                                            creating fire-adapted space around homes. in king
                                            county, 14 communities covering more than 7,000
                                            acres have completed firewise community fire safety
                                            plans for their homes and wooded areas. in 2013, the
                                            county worked with communities near carnation, north
                                            bend and black diamond to complete projects that
                                            demonstrate techniques for reducing hazardous fuels
                                            buildup near homes.


                                            wildfire fuels reduction project near north bend.
                                            by removing the limbs from the lower 10-15 feet of
                                            the trunk, residents can help prevent wildfire along
                                            the ground from moving up into the tree canopy.
                                            these lower limbs are often dead or dying. when
                                            possible, after branches are cut, they are chipped
                                            into a carbon-storing mulch that is returned to the
                                            forest or home landscape.



     farmers markets and sustainable agriculture
     in 2013, there were 41 active farmers markets in king county with estimated sales
     of approximately $30 million. same market sales remained steady (increased about 1
     percent) between 2012 and 2013. king county supports this success through the ongoing
     farmers market forum.


     county operations
     climate action plan goal o.3:
     king county will acquire, manage and restore its parks and other natural lands in ways that
     maximize biological carbon storage and are resilient to changing climate conditions.

     performance measure 1
     percentage of king county parks forested sites over 200 acres in size that have developed
     and are implementing forest stewardship plans

     target 1
     100 percent by 2025




30           king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

2013 status
on track; 21 percent of king county parks forested sites over 200 acres are now
implementing forest stewardship plans, including the danville-georgetown open space
forest, highlighted in the 2013 key accomplishments section on the next page.

performance measure 2
number of native trees and shrubs planted in restoration of king county parks forestlands

target 2
a combined total of 30,000 native trees and shrubs per year

2013 status
parks’ volunteers planted 22,202 native trees and shrubs at 16 sites in 2013. the water
and land resources division planted an additional 104,336 plants and shrubs as part of
its restoration efforts. overall, in 2013 more than 126,500 trees and shrubs were planted
on king county parks lands.



2013 key accomplishments
forest assessment
in 2013, king county parks in partnership with the united states forest service and
forterra completed a four-year forest assessment, known as flat – forest landscape
assessment tool – on over 24,000 acres of king county managed forestlands. parks
employees collected field data that describe current forest conditions at over 180 king
county parks’ sites. this project establishes a permanent database of forest conditions.
the baseline data is used to develop more detailed forest stewardship plans, such as at
danville-georgetown open space (see below accomplishment), and provides guidance
that will help direct the stewardship and management of parks’ forests and allow for more
efficient and productive use of restoration and stewardship resources. the project was
funded by the forest service through the american recovery and reinvestment act.



danville-georgetown forest
stewardship plan
the danville-georgetown forest stewardship
plan was adopted in 2013 for this 334-
acre open space site east of maple valley
that is dominated by 35-year old douglas-fir
plantations. in the summer of 2013, 120 acres
were thinned to accelerate development of late
seral, “old growth” forest conditions. the long-
term goal is to maintain forest health through
adaptive practices that promote plant and
ecosystem diversity.                                     forest health thinning at the
                                                         danville-georgetown forest

king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs   31

                  loop biosolids
                  one way that king county supports healthy, productive farms and forests that help
                  maximize biological carbon storage is with loop biosolids, an organic product extracted
                  during the wastewater treatment process. as a soil amendment and replacement for
                  synthetic fertilizer, loop returns nutrients and carbon-rich organic matter to the soil,
                  both improving soil health and growing plants faster. king county estimates that in 2013
                  approximately 39,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent of ghg emissions were
                  reduced through the land application of loop biosolids. as a result of the loop program,
                  in conjunction with its energy efficiency and renewable energy efforts, king county’s
                  wastewater treatment division is now almost 70 percent ghg neutral in its operations.


                  forest restoration volunteer program
                  in 2013, more than 8,300 volunteers gave over 59,000 hours of service during 330
                  scheduled events that helped restore critical lands and improved over six miles of trails.
                  volunteers planted 22,202 native trees and shrubs at 16 sites and removed 574 cubic
                  yards of noxious and invasive weeds, including blackberries, scot’s broom, ivy, tansy
                  ragwort, knotweed, loosestrife, butterfly bush, thistle, reed canary grass and poison hemlock
                  from 33 sites during 76 events.


                  parks and open space levy
                  in august 2013, king county voters approved by 70 percent the 2014-19 king county
                  parks, trails, and open space replacement levy, which supports operations and
                  maintenance of the parks division’s 200 parks, 175 miles of regional trails and 26,000
                  acres of open space while investing in the future through open space acquisitions,
                  construction of regional trails and trailhead facilities, major infrastructure repair, and
                  community and corporate partnerships.


                  maury island marine park – restoration project
                                                  king county parks and washington department of natural
                                                  resources are involved with a major restoration project
                                                  of the maury island marine park. this project was made
                                                  possible by a puget sound corps – special obligation bond
                                                  jobs package. this site has been home to huge areas of
                                                  invasive weeds since it was acquired in 1994. during 2013,
                                                  washington conservation corps crews spent over 12,000
                                                  hours clearing and grubbing approximately 37 acres of
                                                  invasive blackberries and scot’s broom. crews have planted
                                                  over 60,000 native trees and shrubs representing more than
                                                  two dozen different species. this project is reclaiming an old
                                                  mine site and protects over a mile of puget sound shoreline.

restoration at the maury island marine park



32                        king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

                                                                                         project profile:




                                                                                                            vashon island “island center”
in 2013 the friends of
island center forest
completed a multi-year
project funded by parks’
community partnership
and grants program -
construction of a new
“forest cathedral” shelter
and educational interpretive
signage about forests and
carbon sequestration.
the douglas-fir posts
and beams of the timber-
frame structure come
from vashon forests and
were milled at the vashon        vashon island center forest – cathedral shelter and
forest stewards’ sawmill.        carbon sequestration
the grant also funded a
series of 18 interpretive signs throughout the forest, including one that highlights a carbon
sequestration restoration project in which the soil at a former landfill “borrow pit” was
restored using a mix of mulch and biosolids. the project was part of a study between
king county and the university of washington. the study could have wide ranging
application toward sequestering more carbon in soil and vegetation.



challenges & opportunities
preparing land managers for climate change
over time, forest landowners will be challenged to adapt land management strategies to
changes in climate. as the effects of climate change become better understood, it will be
important to educate owners of small lot forestlands to adapt land management priorities
and actions to changing conditions.


forest stewardship with tribes
in 2013, a new program provided forest stewardship training for tribal members. wlrd
employees will continue to seek partnerships with local tribes to expand opportunities for
integrating traditional land management practices into forestry education and outreach.




king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs                33

     looking forward
     developing new partnerships
     for the past 10 years, king county parks has successfully developed corporate and
     community partnerships that help improve parks, trails, and recreation amenities. from
     volunteer habitat restoration work parties to protecting new open space lands, the division
     continues to develop diverse types of partnerships. on the horizon are exciting new
     partnership opportunities that will allow for more forest restoration – for example in 2014
     king county parks will partner with forterra’s carbon capturing companies program and
     the university of washington’s school of environmental and forest sciences - collaborative
     efforts that will help accelerate progress toward king county’s forest restoration and ghg
     emissions reduction commitments.


     updating performance measures and targets
     in updating king county’s 2015 scap, employees from the wlr and parks divisions will
     improve the usability and value of the forests and agriculture goal area performance
     measures. for example, king county will work to adopt next step targets for forest
     conservation as well as consider new targets related to restoration.




34           king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

goal area 4
consumption and
materials management

background
the purchase, use, and disposal of goods and services by king county residents,
businesses, and governments are associated with significant ghg emissions. these
emissions can occur at all stages of a product’s life cycle, from resource extraction,
farming, manufacturing, processing, transportation, sale, use, and disposal.

according to a 2012 county emissions inventory, purchasing goods and services accounts
for 270,000 metric tons, or about 42 percent, of the county’s operations-related ghg
emissions of 643,000 metric tons. these emissions can be reduced by purchasing
“environmentally preferable products.” recycled content, low toxic, resource efficient,
and more durable products all have a lesser or reduced impact on the environment. the
purchase and reuse of these products avoids resource extraction and consumption, and
ultimately disposal, of new materials which decreases ghg emissions.

king county provides an extensive number of services that support county residents and
businesses in choosing sustainable products, reducing the amount they purchase, reusing
goods when possible, and recycling following their use. the county operates a system of
transfer stations that offer a variety of recycling options, partners with cities who contract
for residential and commercial collection in many areas of the county, sponsors programs
that increase recycled content in goods consumed within the county, and conducts
outreach campaigns to promote best practices.

internally, the environmentally preferable purchasing program provides county personnel
with information and technical assistance to help them identify, evaluate, and purchase
economical and effective environmentally preferable products and services, while the
greentools program works with king county projects on deconstruction, salvage and reuse,
construction debris recycling, and specification of green building materials.


county services
climate action plan goal s.4
king county will encourage and support behaviors, purchasing, and waste management
strategies that account for and minimize the life-cycle impacts of consumption
and materials.




king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs   35

                                   performance measure 1
                                   recycling rates in king county solid waste service area

                                   target 1
                                   by 2020, 70 percent recycling rate of all                     percentage of waste
                                   municipal solid waste                                        recycled or composted
                                   2012 status                                           100%

                                   overall recycling rates remained the same
                                                                                          80%
                                   as 2011 at 52 percent. data for 2013 is not
                                   available at the time of printing due to state         60%
                                                                                                    50%          52%         52%
                                   reporting requirements and timelines.
                                                                                          40%
                                   while the county has a variety of programs
                                                                                       20%
                                   that contribute to the success of recycling, a
                                   number of other factors play a role, such as
                                                                                        0%
                                   ongoing efforts by the private sector to collect            2010        2011       2012
                                   and process waste, and, more fundamentally,
                                   the daily consumption and disposal habits of the population based primarily on economic
                                   factors. in order to reach a 70 percent recycling rate, potential implementation of new
                                   policies, regulations, programs, technologies and facilities that serve the region may
                                   be needed.


          pounds of waste disposed per week                                    target 2:
                       30
                                                                               by 2030, zero waste (no landfilling) of resources
                                                                               that have economic value for reuse, resale
                       25                                                      or recycling.
                                                                  target
     pounds per week




                       20                                                      2012 status
                                                                               zero waste of resources (zwr) is a materials
                       15                                         target       management philosophy to minimize disposal of
                                                                               material that can be put back into the economy as
                       10
                                                                               a feedstock and re-consumed, providing jobs and
                       5                                                       purpose for an end user. zwr does not mean zero
                                                                               garbage, as there will always be some portion of
                       0                                                       the waste stream that requires waste management.
                            2010            2011           2012
                                                                               the solid waste division tracks this target in
                             non-residential        residential
                                                                               two ways:



                                   •   residential/non-residential waste prevention goals – in 2012, 21.9 pounds of waste
                                       per week were generated per capita. this is the same figure reported the previous year
                                       and continues to trend toward meeting the comprehensive solid waste management
                                       plan goal of 20.4 pounds per week by 2020. waste generated per employee in 2012



36                                         king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

    in king county was 50.8 pounds per week, which is also a reduction compared to
    the previous reporting period, but this surpasses the comprehensive solid waste
    management plan goal of 58 pounds per week.
•   residential/non-residential disposal goals - in 2012, residents disposed of 13.4
    pounds of waste per week, which is a modest reduction compared to the previous
    reporting period and surpasses the comprehensive solid waste management plan goal
    of 14.2 pounds per week by 2020. in king county businesses, the amount of waste
    disposed per week, per employee in 2012 was 18.6 pounds, which is also a reduction
    compared to the previous reporting period and surpasses the comprehensive solid
    waste management plan goal of 22.9 pounds per week. the downward trends here and
    the above non-residential waste prevention per employee figure is most likely attributed
    to strong and continued effort in the business sector to extensive cost cutting efforts
    given the state of the economy.
•   note - a reduction in these goals in this case is a positive result – less waste generated.



2013 key accomplishments
recycle more. it’s easy to do
“recycle more. it’s easy to do” is a regional education campaign focused on increasing
residential recycling rates, particularly in areas of the county with lower recycling rates.

it is estimated that in 2013 more than 866,000 tons of recyclables were collected in
king county from residents and businesses, including 9,500 tons from transfer stations.
according to environmental protection agency (epa) modeling, this represents ghg
emission reductions equivalent to 1.3 million metric ton equivalents of carbon dioxide.
this is the equivalent of removing annual emissions from 207,415 passenger vehicles or
conserving 118,589,445 gallons of gasoline per epa’s waste reduction model.



food: too good to waste
the ghg emissions of food production and consumption are significant, on par with
emissions associated with building energy usage, and yet americans waste a quarter of all
the food they purchase. the average single-family household in king county throws away
390 pounds of food each year. in fall 2013, king county launched “food: too good to
waste,” a countywide education campaign aimed at reducing the amount of residential
food waste. the campaign was designed through a collaboration between the epa, king
county, and more than 25 other government partners. king county piloted the campaign
in 2012 with a local elementary school. more recent approaches included online videos
that combined cooking and grocery shopping tips with food waste prevention strategies in
partnership with a local grocery store; an advertising and media campaign to drive video
views; and expanded web resources.




king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs   37

     county operations
     climate action plan goal o.4:
     king county will minimize operational resource use, maximize reuse and recycling, and
     choose products and services that have low environmental impacts.

     performance measure 1
     total amount of copy paper purchased

     target 1
     20 percent reduction in copy paper                                    copy paper purchases
     usage by 2013 compared to 2010                                   20




                                                 thousands of cases
     2013 status                                                           15%
                                                                      15             19%
     the 2013 target has been exceeded                                                       24%
                                                                                                       28%
     (kcc 18.20.040). overall, use is down
                                                                      10
     more than 21 percent since 2010. in
     2013, king county agencies purchased                              5
     14,177 cases of white, recycled
     content copy paper. this represents                               0
                                                                           2010     2011     2012      2013
     a slight reduction of one percent over
                                                                             100% recycled      30% recycled
     2012 consumption.

     in addition, the county has achieved savings of $209,860 over the past three years, as
     a result of waste reduction efforts, including default double-sided copying, electronic
     documents in lieu of paper copies and other paper conservation strategies. this savings
     reflects the increased cost of purchasing 100 percent recycled content copy paper which is
     currently more expensive than 30 percent recycled content paper.

     performance measure 2
     percentage of 100 percent recycled content copy paper purchased

     target 2
     100 percent compliance by all county agencies

     2013 status
     approximately 28 percent of copy paper purchases comply with the goal to use only 100
     percent recycled content copy paper. this number is slowly, but steadily rising, up from
     25 percent last year. the remaining 72 percent of purchases contain 30 percent post-
     consumer recycled fiber.




38           king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

2013 key accomplishments
paystubs for employees using direct deposit are now paperless and only available online


    paperless direct deposit
    in november, payroll went completely paperless. no longer, will any paper pay stubs be
    printed unless requested and will only be available online. although more than 90 percent
    of county employees had their pay deposited directly into a bank account, around
    80 percent of those employees still received a paper paystub.
    beyond the environmental impact of printing paper paystubs, the county will save more
    than $120,000 a year in printing and distribution of more than 10,000 paper paystubs
    every two weeks.




materials diversion on county projects
on average, of those projects that reported in 2013, king county capital projects diverted
64 percent of construction materials from landfills. this is lower than the 77 percent
average in 2012. examples of projects with high diversion rates are:
•   countyline levee setback project – recycled 45,000 yards of fill and 3500 tons of
    material, diverting 75 percent of construction and demolition (c&d) materials.
•   countywide hot mix asphalt (hma) overlay project diverted
    95 percent of c&d materials primarily including old asphalt.
•   reddington levee setback and extension project diverted
    95 percent of c&d materials including soil, concrete,
    asphalt, and park structures.
•   flood zone hazard reduction home buyouts program
    diverted 81 percent of c&d materials.
•   west point waste-to-energy project recycled 426 tons of
    concrete, metal and co-mingled matter diverting over 75
    percent of c&d materials.
•   removal of hangar 5 project recycled approximately
    200 tons of material, with a savings of almost $500,000
    compared to standard demolition.




                                                                          hangar 5, king county international airport




king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs                    39

                  salvage and deconstruction assistance program &
                  flood hazard reduction home buyouts
                  the greentools program provided salvage and deconstruction assistance (including onsite
                  building assessments) to over 20 king county projects. most notably, the river and
                  floodplain management section of wlrd continued its ongoing project to reduce flood
                  damages by removing at-risk homes from floodplain areas. many of these homes were
                  removed using salvage and deconstruction methods instead of traditional demolition.
                  deconstruction makes materials available to be salvaged and reused, reducing the need for
                  new materials to be produced.


                  electronics recycling
                  king county is a designated “e-stewards enterprise” through the basel action network’s
                  standard for responsible recycling and reuse of electronic equipment. the county recycles
                  all of its electronic waste, or “e-waste” with a certified e-stewards® recycler consistent
                  with county code (kcc 18.20). e-waste is of particular concern if disposed of improperly
                  because it contains a variety of heavy metals and other toxins that can leach into the
                  environment. in 2013, king county recycled approximately 137,300 pounds of electronic
                             equipment with certified e-stewards recyclers. this included computers, servers,
                             monitors, televisions, printers, phones, cell phones, copiers, fax machines and
                             miscellaneous office electronics.


                  recycled asphalt shingles (ras) in paving
                  post-consumer asphalt roofing shingles are valuable and represent a key waste diversion
                  opportunity. it is becoming increasingly common throughout the united states to use ras
                  in hot mix asphalt (hma) pavements. king county road services division’s materials
                  lab completed the third and final year of pavement performance testing on the southeast
                  416th street shingles in paving demonstration project — a controlled experimental study
                  of the use of ras in hma conducted in partnership with the king county solid waste
                  division (swd). results showed that the pavement containing ras is performing as well as
                  the traditional pavement. king county road services division is now developing updated
                                              specifications for use in its own projects.

                                                in 2013, the swd used nearly 10,000 tons of hma containing
                                                3 percent ras at the new bow lake recycling and transfer
                                                station. the swd also maintains an asphalt work order
                                                contract, under which hma containing ras is used for all
                                                pavement work at its recycling and transfer stations and at the
                                                cedar hills regional landfill. at the state level, 2013 saw the
                                                approval and use of the first mix design for hot mix asphalt
                                                containing ras, which met the washington state department
solid waste division staff highlights green     of transportation’s general special provisions for that material.
features such as recycled asphalt shingles
(ras) in pavement during tour of bow lake
recycling and transfer station



40                        king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

                                                                                     project profile:




                                                                                                        metro transit receives apta
                                                                                                                 gold recognition
metro transit was a founding signatory of the
american public transportation association (apta)
sustainability commitment program and has put in
place a comprehensive sustainability program to reduce
its environmental footprint. in 2013, metro transit was
awarded with gold-level recognition from apta for
significant reductions in areas such as energy, water use
and waste. metro transit was recognized for significant
improvements to decrease waste generation and increase
the amount of waste that was reused or recycled. from
2003-11 (the period measured for atpa’s 2013 award)
metro transit reduced solid waste generation by 34 percent and increased
the amount of waste diverted from landfills by 11 percent.




                                                                                         project profile:




                                                                                                                     furniture reuse lean event
imagine a football field, including the end zones, overflowing with office chairs, desks,
partitions, tables, filing cabinets, shelving, and binders, innumerable binders, that king
county no longer needs. these items had accumulated from moves, consolidations, and
downsizing over several years, and much of this mountain of surplus furniture and more
was stored in a rented warehouse space at harbor island near downtown seattle.

since this was an unsustainable process, king county facilities management division,
fleet administration division surplus program and the solid waste division embarked on
a “lean” project. the result: a dramatic
increase in the amount of office furniture
and supplies being reused, or recycled
with 51 truckloads removed from the
warehouse, and most items going to
local nonprofits for redistribution. at
the lean-required 90-day report out,
harbor island was empty, saving rental
costs, local nonprofits had new furniture,
landfill disposal was reduced, and a
streamlined process was established for
future furniture surplus and office moves.
                                           furniture stockpile at harbor island warehouse
                                           before lean event




king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs                            41

  bow lake recycling and transfer station
project profile:
                   the new bow lake recycling and transfer station was completed in 2013, with an
                   expanded recycling area. this single station receives about one third of the county’s total
                   garbage tonnage for transfer to the landfill, and is now on track to double the amount of
                   recycling that takes place in the transfer station system.

                   the design of the new station incorporates many new features, including:

                   •   two pre-load compactors to improve operational efficiency and decrease the number
                       of transfer trailer truck trips required to and from the station;

                   •   sustainable building design features, such as solar panels and energy-efficient lighting,
                       that will result in lower life-cycle costs than conventional building design;

                   •   multiple gutters channel rainwater from the roof into two underground 15,000-gallon
                       vaults. the rainwater is used in washing down station floors and equipment;

                   •   asphalt paving contains recycled asphalt shingles – locally sourced through the swd’s
                       linkup program;

                   •   green building materials are incorporated throughout the facility including 90 percent
                       of wood used is certified by the forest stewardship council; and

                   •   98 percent of c&d materials were diverted from landfills.

                   the bow lake recycling and transfer station achieved leed platinum certification and
                   received the 2013 northwest construction consumer council’s green project of the year
                                                                           award for achievement in
                                                                           sustainability. the project
                                                                           was completed on schedule
                                                                           and under budget, while
                                                                           maintaining a stellar safety
                                                                           record. with the completion
                                                                           of a new scale facility and
                                                                           recycling area, a grand opening
                                                                           celebration was held in
                                                                           october.




                   aerial photo of new bow lake recycling and transfer station




 42                                   king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

    binderpalooza
    in august 2013, facilities management division led a county-wide effort to round up all
    of the gently used binders that could be found for donation to seattle communities in
                                                           schools’ annual “stuff the bus”
                                                           program which supplied the binders
                                                           to kids in need who were going back
                                                           to school. for the binders which
                                                           weren’t gently-used, arrangements
                                                           were made with atwork, a work
                                                           training program in issaquah, for
                                                           them to take small quantities of
                                                           binders, on an on-going basis, for
                                                           manual disassembly and recycling of
                                                           the cardboard and metal. they now
    more than 200 boxes of binders were delivered
                                                           take all of our binders at no cost.
    to the stuff the bus campaign




challenges & opportunities
collaborative efforts to achieve zero waste
achieving a 70 percent recycling rate and zero waste of resources will take a collaborative
effort on the part of the county, the cities, and the private solid waste and recycling
companies. it is likely that a combination of efforts will be required to encourage the
desired behaviors:
•   making sure that adequate public and/or private infrastructure is in place (e.g., building
    new transfer stations; materials recycling facilities capacity/capabilities);
•   continued education and promotion;
•   incentives, such as grants and recycling fees at transfer stations; and
•   mandates or bans on disposal of certain materials such as those with a high value or are
    easily recyclable.



100 percent paper compliance
achieving 100 percent compliance of the purchase of 100 percent recycled content copy
paper remains a challenge. the cost of 100 percent recycled content is approximately 15
to 20 percent more than 30 percent recycled content paper, which limits agencies full
participation in this effort. when factoring in 20 percent copy paper reductions achieved,
the county is able to offset the additional cost of the higher recycled percentage of paper,
which results in an overall cost savings.




king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs   43

     the environmental defense fund paper calculator estimates that if the county converted
     the remaining purchases to 100 percent recycled content copy paper, instead of 30 percent
     content; the resulting environmental impact would conserve the equivalent of 4,560 trees,
     2.13 million gallons of water and approximately 197 tons of co2 annually.


     new green building ordinance
     the 2013 green building ordinance includes minimum performance requirements for
     diverting construction and demolition material from landfills for county owned capital
     projects. performance will be phased in with an 80 percent diversion rate by 2016, and an
     85 percent diversion rate by 2025, in order to meet the king county comprehensive plan’s
     goals of achieving zero waste of resources by 2030. in addition, the new green building
     policy will include reporting criteria to track use of environmentally preferred products and
     c&d diversion performance. better data collection will help identify where improvements
     can be made.


     looking forward
     there are many efforts planned for 2014 and beyond to increase waste diversion, to reduce
     ghg emissions associated with consumption, and to ensure compliance with internal
     policies, including:


     material resource recovery at transfer stations
     the solid waste division will test recovery methods and evaluate feasibility of targeting
     additional materials for diversion that have previously been disposed. initial materials
     include high value resources, including wood, metal and cardboard. lessons learned
     will be used to standardize operational practices across the system, where applicable, to
     significantly increase diversion.


     recycled paper compliance
     additional strategies will be implemented to increase the purchase of 100 percent recycled
     content paper by county agencies, including quarterly compliance reporting by departments
     to the executive’s office, and incentives/directives for compliance. metro transit added the
     purchase of 100 percent recycled content copy paper as a specific target in its first ever
     sustainability plan (released in april 2014) and its sustainability program coordinator
     is working with individual sections to provide education and outreach on both decreasing
     paper use and increasing purchases of 100 percent recycled content paper.




44           king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

sustainable purchasing leadership council founding membership
                                   king county became a founding member of this
                                   organization in 2013. employees from procurement and
                                   contract services are active in this national nonprofit,
                                   serving on
                                   the strategic
                                   advisory
                                   committee that
advises the board of directors, and participating
in the 2014 inaugural annual meeting to be
held in washington, d.c. in may. the upcoming
work programs of the council, which include
guiding principles, landscape scan, action plans,
metrics, and a leadership standard, will elevate
and recognize the work of public and private        sustainable purchasing leadership council founder’s
institutions in sustainable purchasing.             summit meeting, washington d.c.



west coast climate and materials management forum –
government purchasing workgroup
king county participates in this epa-led workgroup focusing on governments purchasing
for climate protection. in 2014, the workgroup will develop a toolkit for use by other
jurisdictions to assist them in identifying high impact
areas through ghg and supply chain inventories, and
identify ways to reduce these impacts.




king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs           45

46   king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

goal area 5
preparing for climate change impacts

background
across the globe, climate change is having serious impacts; sea levels are rising, heat
waves and droughts are occurring more frequently and for longer periods, glaciers are
melting, and climate-related natural disasters are causing significant environmental, public
health and economic impacts.

in the pacific northwest, scientists have documented warming temperatures, increasing
ocean acidity, declining glacial area and spring snowpack, and changing streamflows.
these long-term changes are consistent with those observed globally as a result of human-
caused climate change. in the coming decades, short-term natural climate variability
will continue to affect our weather and climate, but cannot distract us from planning for
important long-term trends.

according to the american association for advancement of science’s recent summary
report, “we are at risk of pushing our climate system toward abrupt, unpredictable, and
potentially irreversible changes with highly damaging impacts. earth’s climate is on a path
to warm beyond the range of what has been experienced over the past millions of years.”
king county faces significant environmental and economic challenges stemming from
climate change, including stressed and changing ecosystems, costly impacts on public and
private property, and new public health risks.

county efforts to prepare for climate change directly tie to the kcsp objective “prepare
for the effects of climate change on the environment, human health, and the economy.”
this work also relates to diverse county policies focused on preparing for climate change
impacts, as summarized in king county’s comprehensive plan, including policies to
partner with others to address the impacts of climate change, and to reduce the impacts of
climate change on public and private infrastructure, the natural environment, and public
health.

the county has developed programs and projects to help reduce the impacts of floods,
support farm and forest owner action to address climate change impacts, and begin to
prepare the region for the effects of climate change on stormwater, public health, and
emergency response. these efforts promote equity and social justice by helping those who
are most vulnerable to climate change impacts. king county is also working to plan and
prepare for the likely impacts of climate change on county-owned facilities, infrastructure
and natural resources.




king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs   47

     much of king county’s focus in 2013 was on strategies to reduce ghg emissions. king
     county continues to take incremental steps to incorporate climate change information into
     relevant projects and programs. however, significant work remains to follow through on the
     scap goals related to preparing for climate change impacts.


     county services
     climate action plan goal s.5
     king county will work with local cities and other partners to prepare for the effects of
     climate change on the environment, human health and the economy.

     performance measure 1
     number of king county homes at risk of flooding or river channel migration

     target 1
     targets are being developed as part of river corridor plans scheduled to be completed on
     individual river segments between 2014 and 2016.

     2013 status
     there were 3,820 homes in king county that were within mapped 100 year river
     floodplains, channel migration zones or historic river channel meander belts in 2012,
     which was the first year that this performance measure was tracked. of the 3,820 homes,
     171 were classified by the federal emergency management agency as repetitive loss
     structures based on the frequency and magnitude of flood insurance claims. efforts such
     as the purchase or elevation of repetitively damaged homes will help decrease the number
     of structures at risk. however, there is the potential for the number of homes at risk to
     increase in some king county cities where regulations may allow for development in flood
     and channel migration hazard areas. over the long term, climate change could also affect
     the number of homes in flood areas.



     2013 key accomplishments
     manage flood risks
     as service provider to the king county flood control district between 2007 and 2013,
     king county completed the following actions to reduce the risk of flooding and channel
     migration:
     •   acquired 160 parcels totaling 356 acres;
     •   demolished 160 at-risk structures and relocated 17 structures outside the
         flood hazard area;
     •   elevated 54 homes, three agricultural structures and supported the construction of
         26 farm pads to increase community resiliency to flooding; and
     •   completed 76 construction projects, ranging from small repair to major levee setbacks.




48           king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

                                                                                      project profile:




                                                                                                            reddington levee
                                                                                                             setback project
in 2013, king county completed the largest in-river
flood protection project since the 2007 creation of
the king county flood control district. the new,
mile-long levee along the western bank of the green
river was completed on time and within budget. the
levee protects thousands of auburn residents, more
than 300 residential properties and 275 commercial
properties with a combined value of $680 million,
plus several major transportation corridors. the $17
million project involved excavating enough soil to
fill 80,000 full-sized pickup trucks, installing nearly
4,300 feet of drainage pipe, placing 340 logs and
48,000 tons of rock and planting more than 18,000
native trees and shrubs to stabilize soil and provide
habitat for fish and wildlife.                                           reddington levee setback project



emergency management
climate change is being factored into hazard and vulnerability assessments as part of
the update to the king county regional hazard mitigation plan. representatives from
54 different cities, schools, fire districts, hospitals and utility districts are collaborating
with king county’s office of emergency management and tetra tech, incorporated – the
contractor leading the hazard assessment and plan development. each hazard in the plan –
such as flooding, severe weather and fire – will include a section on how it may be affected
by climate change. the hazard assessments and particular vulnerabilities identified in the
plan will ultimately be used to inform other aspects of emergency management planning,
such as the comprehensive emergency management plan.


county operations
goal o.5
king county will plan and prepare for the likely impacts of climate change on county-
owned facilities, infrastructure and natural resources.

performance measure 1
number of key facilities and natural resource assets and programs assessed for vulnerability
to climate change impacts

target 1
a target will be established as part of the 2015 scap update.




king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs                   49

                  2013 status
                  king county will plan and prepare for the likely impacts of climate change on county-
                  owned facilities, infrastructure and natural resources.

                  performance measure 2
                  number of key facilities and natural resource assets and programs vulnerable to climate
                  change impacts that implement a plan for reducing likely impacts

                  target 1
                  a target will be established as part of the 2015 scap update.

                  2013 status
                  king county is working to document key facilities and programs that are vulnerable to
                  climate change impacts and develop targets for reducing likely impacts. performance
                  measures and targets related to this work will be formalized as part of the 2015
                  scap update.


                  2013 key accomplishments
                  sea-level rise impacts to wastewater treatment infrastructure
                  in 2013, wtd’s climate change program assessed its conveyance system and performed a
                  hydraulic analysis of sea-level rise impacts on essential facilities in the conveyance system.
                  this assessment included measuring and quantifying the current impact of saltwater
                  intrusion into the conveyance system. the evaluations looked at both the potential for
                  structural flooding of the facility and the increased level of saltwater intrusion into the
                  conveyance system through outfalls. the analysis indicated that 20 facilities are at risk of
                  saltwater inflow because their weir elevations are lower than the highest predicted tides.

                                                             wtd has also completed an assessment of on-
                                                             site flooding from sea-level rise to the west point
                                                             treatment plant located on puget sound. the
                                                             assessment concluded that west point is adequately
                                                             protected against flooding from sea-level rise, both
                                                             now and in the foreseeable future, because of the
                                                             past construction of large landscaped walls and
                                                             earthen berms around the plant.

                                                             the barton pump station in west seattle is
                                                             being upgraded to protect puget sound and the
                                                             surrounding environment from sewer overflows.
                                                             the project has incorporated likely sea-level rise
                                                             impacts into its design.
this photo shows just minor damage of the construction
site as a result of a record high tide. damage would
have been much worse if the construction crew hadn’t
accounted for sea-level rise. work started again within
hours and there was no loss of equipment.


50                        king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

coastal wetland restoration
the water and land resources division considers climate change impacts in habitat
assessments, environmental review of land use, and in species and habitat recovery efforts.
for example, as part of the cove creek shoreline restoration project on vashon island,
saltwater wetlands are being constructed to include topographic variability to ensure proper
function at multiple tidal elevations, which also provides resiliency as sea level rises.




before                                                           after
the dockton heights shoreline restoration project on vashon island, mostly completed during 2013, removed
creosote pilings, shoreline armoring and fill from a marine shoreline. the project was designed to have the
necessary resiliency to withstand sea-level rise.



challenges & opportunities
the challenge of unprecedented changes
the rate and magnitude of climate change impacts facing the puget sound region
is daunting. changes already observed, such as increasing temperatures, decreasing
snowpack, and acidifying waters in the puget sound, are cause for alarm. there is
reason to be optimistic that global sources of ghg emissions will be curtailed and the
most serious impacts will be averted. if they are not, the region will need to respond to
increasingly drastic changes and impacts to its environment, economy, and public health.


creating resilience
many actions that help reduce ghg emissions – such as king county’s efforts to provide
transportation choices, support development of local, renewable energy, and encourage
healthy forests – also foster communities that are more resilient in the face of climate
change-related risks and impacts. for example, in the case of severe weather, healthy
forests can help reduce the impacts of stormwater runoff and flooding, while transportation
and energy alternatives can allow for decreased community impacts and faster recovery.
king county is working to help implement preparedness strategies that have the dual
climate change benefits of reducing ghg emissions and also supporting resilient, healthy
communities.

king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs           51

     looking forward
     wastewater treatment division and river flooding
     in 2014, wtd is assessing the potential impacts from possible increased river flooding on
     key facilities and transportation infrastructure that support the operation of wtd’s facilities
     and conveyance system.

     the division is developing strategies for reducing the risks and mitigating future impacts
     from sea level rise and river flooding. the division also performs a vulnerability assessment
     of wastewater facilities and conveyance systems during project planning so design teams
     can consider reducing the risk associated with future sea-level rise.


     assessing new impacts: stormwater and puget sound ocean acidification
     scientists, governments, businesses and the public are recognizing that the era of human-
     caused climate change has arrived, and are taking new steps to reduce these impacts. king
     county is exploring new collaborative partnerships with, for example, king county’s cities,
     the federal government, and non-profit foundations and organizations. for example, in
     2013 king county partnered with epa scientists to begin assessing climate change impacts
     on future rainfall patterns and future stormwater management needs. in addition, as part of
     the 2014 budget, the king county council directed the water and land resources division
     to begin monitoring ocean acidification in puget sound, in cooperation with several federal
     agencies and the washington state department of ecology.


     mainstreaming climate change preparedness
     the county and its partners are working to incorporate climate change considerations early
     into program and project designs. the goal is that these efforts are less “retrofits” and
     more everyday business. although climate change preparedness is an emerging field, an
     early focus on prevention can be the most effective and efficient solution. this is why king
     county is committed to planning and preparing for the likely impacts of climate change on
     county-owned facilities, infrastructure and natural resources.


     measuring success
     as king county works to implement climate change preparedness actions, it will be critical
     to measure their effectiveness. however, measuring effectiveness of prevention-focused
     actions is challenging, especially in light of the uncertainty of climate change impacts. the
     performance measures related to this goal area of the scap, in conjunction with the new
     environmental, health and economic impacts of climate change indicators, are the early
     stages of effective climate change preparedness performance management. several related
     efforts – king county’s participation as a pilot sustainability tools for assessing and rating
     communities (star) community, the king county flood hazard management plan update,
     and the 2015 scap update – mean that there will be significant near-term progress toward
     measuring the impacts of these efforts.




52           king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs

appendix

king county ordinance 17270 requires this report include information about all expenses
associated with the climate change program and a cost-benefit analysis of the program.



approach and cost of climate change program
the king county comprehensive plan includes policies directing king county to reduce
greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions, prepare for climate change impacts, assess this work,
and collaborate with others on solutions. king county’s strategic plan includes the
objective to “reduce climate pollution and prepare for the impacts of climate change on the
environment, human health, and economy.”

in 2012, king county adopted its strategic climate action plan (scap), was submitted to
the county council by executive dow constantine in response to ordinance 17270. the
plan synthesizes and focuses king county’s most critical goals, objectives, and strategies
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and prepare for the effects of climate change. the
comprehensive plan, strategic plan, and scap guide king county’s efforts as they relate to
climate change.

the county’s climate change efforts are led out of the department of natural resources
and parks (dnrp). the 2013 expenditure for the one employee position focused on
climate change was approximately $115,000.

the actions needed to carry out climate-related comprehensive plan, strategic plan and
scap goals and objectives intersect with the roles and work of multiple departments and
divisions in king county. in order to integrate actions and pool technical resources across
county agencies, the climate program employee works closely with several climate-focused
teams supporting development and implementation of county directives related to climate
change. these interdisciplinary teams bring together additional county employees focused
on complementary tasks, such as those implementing the energy plan, the green building
and sustainable development program, the environmental purchasing program, and those
in forestry and agriculture programs.

the county also pools resources for climate-related technical assessments (e.g., ghg
emissions inventories), public outreach, and program development with cities through
the sustainable cities roundtable, king county-cities climate collaboration, and through
professional associations such as climate communities and iclei-local governments for




king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs   53

     sustainability. membership in these types of organizations gives king county employees
     ready access to information on local government approaches to reducing climate pollution
     and preparing for climate changes, federal and state grant programs, and changing
     regulatory requirements. dues for these organizations were approximately $25,000 in
     2013.



     benefits of climate change program
     supporting implementation of a climate change-related projects and programs, such as
     those highlighted in this report, have direct climate-related benefits, as well as other
     benefits, such as reducing water pollution, creating new local green jobs, and enhancing
     residents’ quality of life. specific financial benefits include:
     •   helping secure revenue to support related county projects and programs.
         for example, in 2013, king county received a $500,000 washington state energy
         efficiency grant to partially fund a mechanical system energy efficiency project at the
         weyerhaeuser king county aquatic center and a lighting retrofit project at the west
         point treatment plant.
     •   increasing efficiency of county operations. significant cost savings and new revenue
         sources have been achieved through climate related projects that reduce ghg
         emissions by minimizing energy, waste and resource expenditures and by creating new
         resources such as renewable energy. for example, king county has reduced energy use
         in government-owned facilities by nearly 10 percent since 2007, and in doing so has
         reduced operational resource costs by approximately $2.6 million annually through
         related projects.
     •   mitigating future climate change impacts. a key benefit relates to minimizing and
         avoiding climate change risks by integrating climate change science into the planning
         and design of diverse projects and programs. for example, the wastewater treatment
         division has been integrating data about sea level rise into wastewater infrastructure
         design and operations. the financial value of making these decisions is likely
         significant. for example, the washington state department of ecology’s “impacts of
         climate change on washington’s economy” concluded that if ghg emissions are not
         reduced, and proactive steps to minimize impacts are not taken, the annual washington
         state price tag of climate change impacts will be at least $3.8 billion by 2020.

     there are other less-quantifiable benefits related to climate solutions: county council and
     executive leadership on the issue, improving relations with king county cities through
     regional collaboration, improving the quality of life and health of our residents, helping
     residents and businesses save money on energy and resource costs, supporting community
     and business environmental and climate efforts, and achieving other environmental
     sustainability related objectives.




54           king county’s 2013 climate change, energy, green building and environmental purchasing programs
