                                          annual report 2014
                                                                                                                                                 company information




                                                                                                                                                                  ››
                                 growth
                                                           future


                     potential



                                                                    leoni – the quality connection.

                                                                    the leoni group operates worldwide, providing wires, optical fibers,
                                                                    cables and cable systems as well as related services for applications
                                                                    in the automotive sector and other industries. the company employs
                                                                    about 68,000 people in 31 countries. leoni develops and manufactures
                                                                    technically sophisticated products for the motor vehicle industry –
                                                                    ranging from the single-core cable through to the complete wiring
the quality connection                                              system with integrated electronics. the product range also encompasses
                                                                    wires and strands as well as optical fibers, standardised cables, special,
                                                                    hybrid and optical cables as well as completely assembled systems
                                                                    for customers in different industrial markets. products specifically for
                                                                    application in environmentally friendly technologies are meanwhile
                                                                    gaining in significance. the company also benefits with its products and
                                                                    services from the worldwide trends of globalisation, industrialisation &
                                                                    automation, environmental awareness & shortage of resources, mobility,
                                                                    urbanisation and demographic change.

                                                                             company information




                                                                                              ››
leoni – the quality connection.

the leoni group operates worldwide, providing wires, optical fibers,
cables and cable systems as well as related services for applications
in the automotive sector and other industries. the company employs
about 68,000 people in 31 countries. leoni develops and manufactures
technically sophisticated products for the motor vehicle industry –
ranging from the single-core cable through to the complete wiring
system with integrated electronics. the product range also encompasses
wires and strands as well as optical fibers, standardised cables, special,
hybrid and optical cables as well as completely assembled systems
for customers in different industrial markets. products specifically for
application in environmentally friendly technologies are meanwhile
gaining in significance. the company also benefits with its products and
services from the worldwide trends of globalisation, industrialisation &
automation, environmental awareness & shortage of resources, mobility,
urbanisation and demographic change.

                                company information

                                                  keeping them

                                 promoting them



 gaining them

                training them




talents

                                                                             |   3




                    shareholders’ letter                                 4
company information
                    supervisory board report                             9
                    supervisory board and management board              17
                    leoni 2014 – news from around the world             20
                    main topic: talents                                22
                    corporate governance report and statement           32
                    the leoni share                                     39


financial report
group management report                                                 47
                    principles of the group                             49
                    business and underlying conditions                  53
                    reports by division / segment report                57
                    business report                                     70
                    other indicators                                    83
                    sustainability report                               93
                    risk and opportunity report                         98
                    supplementary report                               112
                    forecast                                           112
                    compensation report                                118
                    disclosures pursuant to art. 315 (4)
                    of the german commercial code                      128


consolidated financial statements                                      131
                    consolidated income statement                      133
                    consolidated statement of comprehensive income     134
                    consolidated statement of cash flows               135
                    consolidated statement of financial position       136
                    consolidated statement of changes in equity        137
                    notes                                              138
                    scope of consolidation                             208
                    independent auditor’s report                       210
                    responsibility statement                           212


additional information                                                 213
                    extract from the financial statement of leoni ag   215
                    appropriation of profits                           217
                    ten-year overview                                  218
                    un global compact index                            220
                    glossary                                           222
                    index of key words                                 224

4 |   www.leoni.com




                                        shareholders’ letter


                                        as projected, leoni entered its next growth phase in 2014, albeit not quite so smoothly.
                                        we met our targets in terms of sales: both our core automotive business and our industrial
                                        business as the second mainstay made gains, thanks to which consolidated sales rose
                                        moderately to € 4.1 billion in the past year. earnings before interest and taxes (ebit) were
                                        up 12 percent to € 182.5 million in 2014. we had originally projected a stronger gain to
                                        more than € 200 million, but had to adjust our full-year forecast in october. in particular,
                                        the ramping up of a major, highly complex project at a mexican facility of our wiring
                                        systems division, which incurred substantially greater-than-budgeted initial costs in
                                        the summer months, held us back significantly. but there was also an adverse effect on
                                        earnings in the wire & cable solutions division due to unexpectedly weak business with
                                        the petrochemical industry.
                      dr klaus probst

                                        on the whole, however, 2014 was a satisfactory year for leoni. firstly, consolidated
                                        earnings after taxes rose to € 115.1 million. we thus have a solid basis on which to propose
                                        to you an increase in the dividend to € 1.20 per share at the annual general meeting – in
                                        keeping with our policy to pay out about one third of consolidated net income.


                                        secondly, we bolstered the foundations for our future growth in both divisions even more
                                        in 2014: the wiring systems division increased its global sales of wiring systems and cable
                                        harnesses to customers in the car and commercial vehicle industry. at the same time we
                                        launched an above-average large number of new and follow-on projects, which required
                                        heavy pre-production spending and which will provide the full sales and earnings benefit
                                        in the next two years. several new contracts we obtained to supply various customers and
                                        vehicle categories additionally underpin our plan for growth. alongside follow-on orders
                                        from our existing customers, we also gained further customers, for instance from among
                                        the european commercial vehicle and the chinese car industries.


                                        in the wire & cable solutions division, business involving automotive cables as well as
                                        cables and systems for numerous other, strategically important industrial sectors also
                                        grew in 2014. as projected, this included sales increases particularly in asia and the amer-
                                        icas. order receipts, which again exceeded the amount of executed business, included
                                        numerous, significant new orders from the automotive, medical technology and robotics
                                        industries, among others. based on the increasing degree of capacity utilisation and
                                        on our ‘wcs on excellence’ performance enhancement programme with multifaceted
                                        measures to improve profitability, the division’s earnings, which already rose strongly in
                                        2014, are expected to continue to significantly outpace the growth in sales in the next
                                        two years as well.

                                                                                                shareholders’ letter    |   5




both divisions stepped up their commitment overseas during the period under report,
with the aim of meeting the medium-term target of an even split in sales among the three
most important economic regions of europe, the americas and asia. this objective is also
reflected in our most significant capital investment projects: based on the good demand
and order situation, we expanded our capacity to produce automotive cables and wiring
systems in both china and mexico. in china we also set up a new wiring systems facility
and a plant to manufacture special industrial cables. the new plant of the wire & cable
solutions division in india, which, alongside automotive cables, meanwhile also manufac-
tures petrochemical plant control cables, was also expanded. both divisions are planning
additional new facilities and capacity expansion in asia and the americas in 2015.


we are investing heavily in germany too. in 2014, we started work on enlarging and
updating our wiring systems headquarters in kitzingen to enable us in the future to
provide our staff with a state-of-the-art, creative work environment. an extensive capex
project in the wire & cable solutions division will start in germany in 2015: the ‘factory
of the future’ at our long-established facility in roth. this involves setting up a modern
facility for developing and manufacturing high-quality cables and conductors that meet
the latest standards in terms of technology and factory architecture.


the larger amount of business, the complex new product start-ups and the work dedi-
cated to our future growth called for significant expansion of our worldwide team. at the
end of 2014, leoni employed a total of 67,988 people, 6,397 more than one year earlier.
they worked with skill and commitment towards the success of our business. on behalf
of the entire management board, i thank all staff members for their commitment and the
results achieved.


employees embody our most important potential. to be able to hold the course on
which we have embarked it is therefore important to be a globally attractive employer
for motivated, skilled and talented people in the future as well. the special topic entitled
‘from talent to success’ starting on page 22 of this annual report illustrates what we are        main topic: talents
                                                                                                  ›› page 22
doing to gain talented people for our company; how we train them, promote them and
plan to retain them at leoni over the long term.


a course important to future success was also set in 2014 with respect to leoni’s mana­
gement board team. my colleague dr frank hiller, who has been a member of leoni’s
management board since april 2014, took over charge of the wire & cable solutions
division from me already in july of last year. he has familiarised himself well with the task
and has taken significant steps for the division’s profitable growth with an optimised
organisational structure as well as the ‘wcs on excellence’ programme. following my
decision to retire and leave the company in the middle of this year, the supervisory board
appointed my colleague of many years and cfo dieter bellé to succeed me as president
& ceo. the appointment to this position from inside the company can be seen as a sign

6 |   www.leoni.com




                      of continuity and confidence of the supervisory board in the entire leoni management
                      board. i will hand over my office to mr bellé at the annual general meeting on 7 may and
                      am convinced that he, together with his management board colleagues, will successfully
                      take the leoni group forward.


                      major challenges will have to be mastered in the years ahead. as already communicated,
                      leoni is to grow significantly in terms of both sales and earnings. specifically, we have
                      budgeted for 2015 a sales increase to roughly € 4.3 billion and improvement in ebit to
                      more than € 200 million. from today‘s perspective, sales will increase to € 5 billion in 2016,
                      with significant widening of the ebit margin to 7 percent. the conditions in our produc-
                      tion network, structures and organisation as well as among our team of employees to
                      meet these targets were established in the preceding years and especially in 2014.


                      in closing, i would like to thank my management board colleagues, the supervisory board
                      and all members of staff for their constructive collaboration over the past 18 years and
                      wish them and the company as a whole all the best in the years ahead.


                      also on behalf of my colleagues, i thank you, esteemed shareholders, for your confidence
                      in our work and hope that you will remain loyal to the company in the future, too.




                      dr klaus probst
                      president & ceo

                                                                                                       |   7




company information

providing all stakeholders with timely, regular and transparent information
has high priority at leoni. this applies also and especially to shareholders
and financial market professionals. in the past year, our ir work was
commended with 1st place among the mdax companies in the ‚investors’
darling’ rankings. a large majority of the analysts who monitor our company
rated the leoni share as a buy at the end of 2014.




           9 supervisory board report




                        17 supervisory board and
                           management board                               20 l eoni 2014 – news
                                                                               from around the world

8 |   www.leoni.com




                  22 main topic: talents
                                                                      39 the leoni share


                                           32 corporate governance report
                                             and statement

                                                                          company information   | supervisory board report   |   9




supervisory board report



the supervisory board of leoni ag again in fiscal 2014 dealt in depth with the situation
and performance of the group of companies. it conscientiously and diligently fulfilled
its duties in accordance with statutory requirements, the provisions of the company’s
articles of association, the german corporate governance code (‘code’) and its rules of
procedure, at all times standing at the management board’s side, providing advice as
well as assisting and monitoring its work.


constructive collaboration
the deliberations between the management board and the supervisory board were at all
times constructive, open and defined by mutual trust. a key foundation for this was the
fact that the management board regularly, promptly and comprehensively informed the                 dr werner rupp

supervisory board about all matters pertinent to leoni concerning strategy and planning
as well as the group’s operating performance including its risk situation, risk manage-
ment and compliance. deviation in business performance from the prepared planning
and targets was explained in detail. the management board also at all times involved the
supervisory board immediately and early in decisions of material importance.


to fulfil its duties, the supervisory board was provided with detailed written manage-
ment board reports in advance of its meetings. all topics, especially transactions requir-
ing consent, were thoroughly discussed during the supervisory board’s meetings. the
management board and supervisory board also at all times kept in close touch outside
their scheduled meetings. among other activity for instance, the chairmen of the two
boards consulted on matters requiring agreement at short notice, both regularly on
a fixed day every month and also as warranted by events. the entire supervisory board
was comprehensively informed of the content of these discussions during its next meet-
ing at the latest. there were no conflicts of interest involving supervisory board members
in relation to exercise of their office during the period under report.


main topics of discussion by the supervisory board
the supervisory board held five regular meetings during the 2014 financial year,
specifically on 24 march, 8 may, 24 july, 18 september and 4 december. the meeting
on 18 september 2014 was held in wroclaw, poland together with a tour of leoni’s
kobierzyce plant. the visit provided a deeper insight into the production of automotive
cables. additional three separate meetings of the shareholder representatives on
the supervisory board took place on 8 may, 5 august and 4 december. the employee
representatives held a preliminary discussion prior to each regular meeting. the super­
visory board had a quorum on each occasion. one member excused his absence
from one meeting. the supervisory board had a quorum on each occasion. all members
of the management board attended each of the meetings so far as these did not cover
topics requiring that they absent themselves.

10 |   www.leoni.com




                       the topics that were discussed during the regular meetings included financial, capital
                       investment and human resource planning, the operating targets, the effectiveness of
                       risk management as well as current trends in the economy and the business. it became
                       evident that the sustained, strong demand for cables and wiring systems from the
                       worldwide automotive industry and the perceptible recovery of the industrial sectors in
                       europe of strategic importance to leoni were exerting the expected positive effect.
                       it also became clear that exceptional costs related to new product start-ups would weigh
                       on earnings, which in october 2014 required a correction of the earnings forecast for the
                       year as a whole. the increasingly difficult geopolitical situation, which did not, however,
                       discernibly impact on leoni’s business, was also discussed on each occasion. other
                       recurring topics of the supervisory board meetings included the good order situation
                       in both divisions, the numerous new product start-ups in the wiring systems division
                       as well as the ‘wcs on excellence’ programme to boost profitability in the wire & cable
                       solutions division.


                       apart from these regular topics, the supervisory board dealt in depth with the annual
                       financial statements for fiscal 2013 of leoni ag and the group during its meeting on
                       24 march 2014. after comprehensive deliberation, the board approved both sets of
                       statements without any objections.


                       the 2014 compensation for management board members in accordance with the existing
                       system and the system applicable from 2015 was also an important topic during the
                       supervisory board’s meetings. the board discussed and endorsed it.


                       during its meeting on 8 may 2014, the supervisory board furthermore discussed leoni’s
                       corporate governance and decided to align the presentation in table format of the
                       compensation for management board members in the compensation report with the
                       reference tables suggested in the code for better comparability with other companies
                       and to publish this for the first time in the 2014 annual report.


                       the financial planning and strategy of the leoni group was a key item on the agenda for
                       the meeting on 24 july 2014, which were thoroughly discussed. during its meeting on
                       18 september 2014, the supervisory board dealt with the consent for further new plants
                       and approved both implementation of the ‘factory of the future’ project at the facility in
                       roth and construction of a new facility to produce automotive cables in northern china.
                       the board also deliberated on growth strategies in asia. it was furthermore decided to
                       update the process for regularly reviewing the efficiency of the supervisory board’s work,
                       which was presented to an outside specialist in july 2014 for evaluation, in line with the
                       latter’s suggestions. the supervisory board also analysed the impact of various economic
                       scenarios on the future performance of the leoni group and discussed the trend
                       in compensation for management board members, also in comparison with other
                       mdax companies.

                                                                         company information   | supervisory board report   |   11




presentation by the management board of its business planning for 2015 as well as the
medium-term planning from 2016 through to 2019 was a focal point of the meeting on
4 december 2014. the supervisory board approved the planning following detailed
discussion. other agenda items included update of the declaration pertaining to the
code pursuant to article 161 of the german public companies act as well as presentation
of the findings of the review of the supervisory board’s work.


during four regular meetings the supervisory board met partially without members of
the management board in order to discuss various personnel matters. in its meeting
on 24 march 2014 the supervisory board decided to extend the terms of office and the
employments contracts of management board member dr klaus probst until 30 june
2015 as well as those of management board members dieter bellé and dr andreas brand
until 31 december 2019, in each case commencing on 1 january 2015. the extension in
the case of dr andreas brand was done earlier to have continuity in the wiring systems
division, which he is in charge of, and to ensure furtherance of the adopted long-term
strategy.


during the meetings on 24 july and 18 september 2014 the board discussed the process
for nominating the successor to the chairman of the management board in detail and
determined the corresponding procedure. after considering all outside and internal
candidates, the board decided in its meeting on 4 december to appoint dieter bellé to
success the incumbent chairman of the management board, dr klaus probst, who will, in
line with his own wish, retire from the management board of leoni ag upon close of the
annual general meeting scheduled for 7 may 2015. dieter bellé will assume the office of
management board chairman, and hence of president & ceo, after the annual general
meeting scheduled for 7 may 2015 in addition to his duties as chief financial officer and
labour director.


the supervisory board of leoni ag has, regardless of introduction of any legal require-
ments, set itself the objective of responding as soon as possible to the recommendations
of the code regarding diversity and to facilitate appropriate participation of women on
the board. this was consequently discussed frequently on the supervisory board. with
wilhelm wessels having retired from the supervisory board on 31 december 2014, axel
markus succeeded him from 1 january 2015 as substitute member for the shareholder
representative side. the search for a female candidate qualified for leoni’s supervisory
board began at the same time. this person was found with dr ulrike friese-dormann to
join the shareholder side. she is to be proposed as a new supervisory board member at
the annual general meeting scheduled for 7 may 2015.

12 |   www.leoni.com




                       composition of the supervisory board of leoni ag – objectives and
                       status of implementation
                       the supervisory board of leoni ag aims for a composition that ensures qualified
                       supervision of and advice for the management board of leoni ag. candidates are to be
                       proposed for election to the supervisory board who are able to successfully perform the
                       duties of a supervisory board member of an industrial group that operates internationally
                       on the basis of their experience, specialist knowledge, independence, commitment,
                       integrity and personality. the selection of candidates should furthermore consider, in
                       the interest of successful collaboration on the board as a whole, that there is sufficient
                       diversity also with respect to differing career backgrounds, professional expertise
                       and experience.


                       the rules of procedure for the supervisory board stipulate that all shareholder repre-
                       sentatives should be independent in line with sections 5.4.1 and 5.4.2 of the code. in
                       particular, they are not to be in any personal or business relationship with leoni ag, its
                       corporate bodies, a controlling shareholder or an affiliated company, which may provide
                       the basis for material and not merely temporary conflict of interests. at least one super-
                       visory board member is to be independent as defined by article 100 (5) of the german
                       public companies act. the supervisory board members shall not exercise directorships or
                       similar positions or advisory tasks for important competitors of the leoni group.


                       the rules of procedure for the supervisory board provide that only candidates
                       who, at the time of their election, are not older than 75 years are to be proposed for
                       election as a member of the supervisory board. all supervisory board members fulfil
                       the above mentioned requirements. another target is, although not required by law as
                       of yet, that there is a minimum 30 percent proportion of female members. on the share-
                       holder side, this requirement will be met after the annual general meeting scheduled for
                       7 may 2015 provided the planned proposal for nomination is approved.


                       apart from these general requirements, there is also to be specialist professional know­
                       ledge among the members on the shareholder side:


                           at least one member is to have corporate globalisation experience, industrial
                       ■   


                           knowledge in the regions and markets of importance to leoni as well as expertise in
                           the automotive (supply) industry. these requirements are fulfilled by several members.


                           at least one independent member of the supervisory board is to have specialist
                       ■   


                           expertise in the respective areas of accounting (financial expert) and more profound
                           knowledge in the areas of international company law, compliance, risk management,
                           competition law as well as m&a. these requirements are fulfilled and even

                                                                           company information   | supervisory board report   |   13




    will be underscored by the planned proposal for nomination, provided this is approved
    at the annual general meeting scheduled for 7 may 2015.


the supervisory board is keen to further enhance its expertise in recruitment and
personnel development, especially in making appointments to supervisory board and
management board positions. the primary objectives pursued in the past three years
involved in-depth consideration of both internal and outside candidates for management
board positions and also the current search for a female candidate to join the supervisory
board, in order thereby to further develop the experience and expertise of the supervisory
board members in this area. with a view to the new elections to the supervisory board
to be held in 2017, the task is to further optimise this know-how.


networked information applications are, to an ever increasing extent, becoming a crucial
prerequisite for the competitiveness of companies that operate globally. this specialist
expertise on the board, which is pertinent to competitiveness, is to be further enhanced
by the time of the next regular elections to the supervisory board in 2017.


work of the committees
the supervisory board of leoni ag formed separate audit, personnel, nomination and
strategy committees. in addition there is the arbitration committee in compliance with
article 27 (3) of germany’s co-determination act. these governance bodies prepare the
topics to be addressed by the entire supervisory board and the resolutions on which the
board is to vote during its meetings.


    the audit committee met a total of four times during the past financial year, on each
■   


    occasion together with the management board. it dealt in depth with the 2013 financial
    statements and consolidated financial statements, the management reports and the
    auditor’s report. in addition, it prepared for nomination of the auditors for the 2014
    financial year and dealt in detail with the upcoming quarterly reports as well as the
    half-year report. other topics involved the effectiveness of risk management and
    of the internal control system, compliance and internal auditing as well as implemen-
    tation of improvement measures, which stemmed from an external audit of the risk
    management system. the committee also sought information on accounts receivable
    management at leoni as well as accounting provision for product liability risks and
    carried out a self-evaluation.


    the personnel committee held three meetings in the past financial year, during
■   


    which the focal topics were the extension of the contracts of management board
    members, the succession for the management board chairmanship, the compensation
    for management board members and the system for this compensation.

14 |   www.leoni.com




                                             ■   the nomination committee met on three occasions during the year under report,
                                                     of which once with the personnel committee to support the latter in planning for
                                                     the succession to the management board chairmanship. its principal task was the
                                                     successful search for a suitable female successor to join leoni’s supervisory board in
                                                     order, on the shareholder side, to be early in conforming to the code recommendations
                                                     and announced legislation concerning the proportion of women.

                                             ■      the strategy committee met twice, on both occasions together with the management
                                                  board. it dealt in depth with the strategy of the leoni group and of the individual
                                                  business divisions. it also discussed such key strategic projects as the opportunities for
                                                  further automation in the wiring systems division.

                                             ■      convening of the arbitration committee pursuant to article 27 (3) of germany’s
                                                  codetermination act was not required in the past financial year.


                 declaration of conformity   corporate governance and declaration of conformity
                 ›› page 38
                                             again in 2014, the supervisory board dealt in detail with corporate governance at leoni,
                                             taking the code as its guide. the declaration of conformity pursuant to article 161 of
                                             the german public companies act was updated in december 2014. with one exception,
                                             leoni fulfilled all the recommendations and suggestions of the code in its current version.
                                             this involves a stipulation for management board compensation, which recommends,
                                             among other things, that when determining the compensation for management board
                                             members, the level of compensation relative to that for senior management and the
                                             workforce as a whole, also over time, should be taken into consideration. the supervisory
                                             board does not deem such an arrangement to be expedient in leoni’s case. details
                                             concerning this decision can be viewed in the current declaration of conformity.


                                             advanced training was a key part of the work for the supervisory board and its members
                                             again in 2014. the focus was on subjects involving corporate governance, compliance,
                                             the code and the increased demands on supervisory board members in terms of duties
                                             and supervision.


                                             audit of the annual financial statements
                                             the annual general meeting of leoni ag’s shareholders on 8 may 2014 appointed the
                                             ernst & young gmbh auditing company of stuttgart as auditors for the 2014 financial
                                             year. ernst & young audited and granted an unqualified certificate for the 2014 financial
                                             statements and the management report of leoni ag prepared in accordance with the
                                             german commercial code as well as the consolidated financial statements and the group
                                             management report prepared in accordance with ifrs. the auditors responsible pursuant

                                                                           company information   | supervisory board report   |   15




to article 319a (1) sentence 4 of the german commercial code (hgb) were udo schuberth
and gero schütz. the management reports describe the situation of leoni ag and of the
group as well as the future risks and rewards in an appropriate manner. the auditors also
gave the quality of the risk management system a favourable verdict.


the annual financial statements of the company and of the group, the management
reports and the audit reports were available to all members of the supervisory board in
good time. the audit committee pre-examined these documents during its meeting on
9 march 2015. these financial statements and reports were comprehensively discussed
during the regular meeting of the supervisory board on 16 march 2015. the auditing
company’s representatives took part in both meetings, reported on the findings of their
audits and were available to provide additional information. with respect to the
accounting process, they confirmed the effectiveness of the risk management and
internal control systems to the supervisory board. the auditors gave written assurance,
furthermore, that they did not perform any significant services other than to audit the
financial statements for leoni ag during the year under report and that there are no
circumstances that might compromise their independence. the final audits of the annual
financial statements and the management reports of leoni ag and the group by the
supervisory board did not give rise to any objections. the members of the supervisory
board approved the annual financial statements of leoni ag and the consolidated financial
statements for fiscal 2014 as prepared by the management board. the financial statements
of leoni ag have thus been duly adopted. the supervisory board supports the management
board’s proposal to pay out a dividend of € 1.20 per share for fiscal 2014.


changes in personnel
dr frank hiller joined the management board of leoni ag on 1 april 2014 and took over
charge of the wire & cable solutions division on 1 july 2014 from dr klaus probst, who
has since then been looking after the implementation of the group’s strategy as well as
performing the typical duties of a management board chairman. dr klaus probst will
retire from the management board of leoni ag at his own request upon close of the
annual general meeting scheduled for 7 may 2015. the supervisory board would already
like to express its emphatic and sincere thanks to dr klaus probst for the exceptional
service to leoni in his 26 years with the company and has asked him to stand for election
to the supervisory board in 2017 after the required cooling-off period. his successor as
chairman of the management board, and therefore as president & ceo, will be dieter
bellé, who was appointed to the management board of leoni ag in 2000 and has since
then made a key contribution to the company‘s successful growth. dieter bellé will
exercise the office of president & ceo in addition to his positions as chief financial officer
and labour director.

16 |   www.leoni.com




                       wilhelm wessels, supervisory board member on the shareholder side, resigned his
                       office effective 31 december 2014. axel markus, graduate industrial engineer from
                       schwabach, who was elected a substitute member at the annual general meeting on
                       16 may 2012, consequently became a member of the supervisory board on the
                       shareholder side effective 1 january 2015. with the supervisory board having decided
                       during its meeting on 16 march 2015 upon the recommendation of nomination
                       committee to propose to shareholders at the 2015 annual general meeting that
                       dr ulrike friese-dormann be elected as shareholder representative effective at the
                       end of the annual general meeting, axel markus said that he would resign his office
                       effective at the end of the annual general meeting scheduled for 7 may 2015.


                       thanks to the management board and staff
                       the supervisory board thanks all members of the management board as well as staff
                       for their commitment and good work in the 2014 financial year and wishes them great
                       success for the planned course of growth.


                       nuremberg, 16 march 2015




                       dr werner rupp
                       chairman of the supervisory board

                                                                                           company information   | supervisory board and   |   17
                                                                                                                   management board




supervisory board and management board
    supervisory board
                                                                memberships on statutory supervisory boards
members of the supervisory board                                and other governance bodies

chairman
                                                                —
dr werner rupp | 67 | burgthann
1st deputy chairman                                             ­
franz spieß 1 | 58 | büchenbach
2nd senior authorised signatory of the administrative office    —
in schwabach of the ig metall trade union
2nd deputy chairman
prof. dr klaus wucherer | 70 | ungelstetten / winkelhaid        member of the supervisory board of dürr ag, bietigheim-bissingen;
managing director of dr klaus wucherer                          member of the supervisory board of sap ag, walldorf;
innovations- und technologieberatungs-gmbh                      deputy chairman of the supervisory board of heitec ag, erlangen;
                                                                chairman of the supervisory board of festo ag & co. kg, esslingen
gabriele bauer 1 | 58 | prichsenstadt
chairwoman of the group works council                           —
josef häring 1 | 53 | grafenwiesen
chairman of the works council                                   —
ingrid hofmann | 60 | hiltpoltstein
managing director of i.k. hofmann gmbh                          —
karl-heinz lach 1 | 56 | eschweiler
chairman of the works council                                   —
dr werner lang | 47 | ergersheim
managing director of lang verwaltungsgesellschaft mbh,       member of the supervisory board of mekra lang otomotiv yan sanayi a.s.,
fürth                                                        ankara, turkey;
                                                             member of the supervisory board of daito lang mirror co., chonburi,
managing director of mekra lang gmbh & co. kg, ergersheim
                                                             thailand;
managing director of lang technics gmbh & co. kg, ergersheim member of the supervisory board of changchun mekra lang faway vehicle
managing director of mekra global mirrors gmbh, fürth        mirror co., ltd., changchun, china;
                                                             supervisory board chairperson and president of mekra lang americas
                                                             management, inc., delaware, usa;
                                                             member of the supervisory board of lang-mekra north america holdings,
                                                             inc., south carolina, usa
richard paglia 1 | 48 | allersberg
senior vice president strategic purchasing                      —
bei der leoni kabel holding gmbh
dr bernd rödl | 71 | nuremberg
auditor, tax consultant, solicitor rödl & partner gbr           —
wilhelm wessels | 62 | oberhembach / pyrbaum
self-employed management consultant                             member of the advisory board of tristyle mode gmbh, fürth;
(until 31/12/2014)                                              deputy chairman of the administrative board of staedtler noris gmbh,
                                                                nuremberg
helmut wirtz 1 | 64 | stolberg
1st senior authorised signatory of the administrative           —
office in stolberg of the ig metall trade union
1
    employee representatives




committees of the supervisory board
arbitration committee pursuant to article 27 (3) of germany’s       dr werner rupp, chairman;
co-determination act (mitbestg)                                     gabriele bauer, franz spieß, prof. dr klaus wucherer
audit committee                                                     dr bernd rödl, chairman;
                                                                    richard paglia, dr werner rupp, franz spieß
personnel committee                                                 dr werner rupp, chairman;
                                                                    gabriele bauer, franz spieß, prof. dr klaus wucherer
nomination committee                                                dr werner rupp, chairman;
                                                                    dr bernd rödl, prof. dr klaus wucherer
strategy committee                                                  prof. dr klaus wucherer, chairman;
                                                                    gabriele bauer, dr werner lang, richard paglia, dr bernd rödl,
                                                                    dr werner rupp, helmut wirtz

18




     management board   dr klaus probst
                        president & ceo;
                        member of the management
                        board since 1997.



                        dr klaus probst was born in 1953
                        in nuremberg, studied chemical
                        engineering at the university of
                        erlangen and earned a doctorate
                        in engineering. he began his
                        professional career in 1980 as a
                        planning engineer at großkraft-
                        werk franken ag, a regional
                        energy supplier. in 1989 he joined
                        leoni ag as head of the plant in
                        roth. in 1997 he was appointed to
                        the management board, which he
                        has chaired since 2002.

                                                                                                                |   19




dr frank hiller                       dieter bellé                        dr andreas brand
in charge of the wire & cable         in charge of finance, controlling   in charge of the wiring
solutions division;                   and labour affairs;                 systems division;
member of the management              member of the management            member of the management
board since 2014.                     board since 2000.                   board since 2012.


dr frank hiller, born in stuttgart    dieter bellé was born in 1956       dr andreas brand, born 1966
in 1966, studied mechanical engi-     in hamburg. from 1979, after        in werneck, completed his
neering in kaiserslautern, earning    studying business administration    production engineering studies
a doctorate in engineering. from      in cologne, he worked in various    in erlangen. he thereafter earned
1997 he initially worked in senior    commercial positions in the         a doctorate in engineering. his
positions at thyssenkrupp ag. in      krupp group, felten & guillaume     career took him via motorola and
2005, he was appointed chief exec-    ag and as managing director of      grundig to continental ag, where
utive of f.x. meiller fahrzeug- und   peguform gmbh. in 2000 he was       he was most recently an executive
maschinenfabrik gmbh & co kg          appointed to the management         of the chassis and safety division.
and, in 2009, as a member of the      board of leoni ag, where he took    in 2012 he joined the management
management board of man truck         charge of most of the corporate     board of leoni ag where he took
& bus ag. he has been a member        departments.                        charge of the wiring systems
of the management board of leoni                                          division at the beginning of 2013.
ag since 1 april 2014 and in charge
of the wire & cable solutions
division since 1 july 2014.

20 |   www.leoni.com




                       leoni 2014 – news from around the world



                       february                                       may
                       major order from the petrochemical             psa presents its supplier award to
                       industry the indian producer reliance          leoni from among about 400 south
                       industries commissioned leoni to provide       american suppliers, psa peugeot citroën
                       the wiring for the world’s largest oil and     presented leoni‘s facility in itú, brazil with
                       gas refinery. the order comprises instru-      its supplier award in the quality category.
                       mentation and field bus cables for the         in particular, the french carmaker praised
                       measurement and control equipment of the       the very good quality standard of our
                       plant’s third expansion stage. leoni already   products and our high expectations in terms
                       equipped the first two construction phases     of customer satisfaction. leoni has been
                       with high-quality, special cables. at the      supplying psa peugeot citroën from its itú
                       time, the product was still exclusively made   facility since 2013.
                       in germany; now as much as half already
                       comes from leoni‘s new plant in india.         june
                                                                      leoni at the apprenticeship event
                       april                                          with the premiere of the apprenticeship
                       siemens healthcare’s supplier of the           event held at its facility in roth, leoni,
                       year siemens healthcare commended the          together with other companies from the
                       high quality and outstanding performance       region, opened its doors to school pupils
                       of leoni’s business unit healthcare and        and others seeking apprenticeships. the
                       named us supplier of the year for what was     event aims to support youngsters in their
                       the second time already. leoni supports        choice of career. during the evening event,
                       siemens as a systems technology partner        about 800 visitors obtained insight into the
                       for the external and internal wiring of        company‘s various apprenticeships and
                       state-of-the-art x-ray machines – from         valuable pointers on how to apply.
                       collaboration involving development work
                       through to mass production.                    july
                                                                      new work environment at our
                                                                      kitzingen facility the headquarters of
                                                                      our wiring systems division in kitzingen
                                                                      moved into new, state-of-the-art offices
                                                                      built in former workshops. the roughly 200
                                                                      staff members now work in an open-plan
                                                                      environment with plenty of daylight, muted
                                                                      acoustics and modern office furniture – an
                                                                      inspiring ambiance for our employees. this
                                                                      completed the first phase of the expansion
                                                                      and rebuilding project in kitzingen.

                                                                                      company information   | leoni 2014   |   21




july                                             october
‘wcs on excellence’ growth plan                  leoni revises earnings forecast for
launched the wire & cable solutions              2014 leoni revised its earnings forecast
division is enhancing its efficiency with        for 2014 due to exceptional costs related
the ‘wcs on excellence’ performance              to new product start-ups in the wiring
programme for profitable growth. it covers       systems division. although the counter-
a large number of measures in the areas of       measures applied quickly yielded benefit,
procurement, technology, production and          it was no longer going to be possible to
sales.                                           recoup the losses sustained by the end of
                                                 the year. rather than the originally projected
september                                        amount of more than € 200 million, the
first order from scania for engine               company now forecast earnings before
cable harnesses the swedish truck                interest and taxes of more than € 180 million.
manufacturer scania ordered cable
harnesses from leoni for several engine
models that will be supplied across europe
and in brazil from mid 2015. this involves
complex systems that link all the electrical
and electronic components as well as
sensors and control units of the truck
engines. with scania as a new purchaser,
leoni now has all major european truck
manufacturers among its commercial
vehicle customer base.


leoni is investors’ darling in the
mdax leoni took first place in the mdax,
i.e. among the companies with mid-sized
capitalisation, in the investors’ darling 2014
competition run by manager magazin.
the criteria for the best capital market
communication in germany cover annual
and interim reports as well as websites and
presentations for investors. the competition
also considers share performance over one,
three as well as five years and the opinions
of fund managers.

              from talent to success


                                                                            understanding




discovering




              leoni is aiming for sustained and           as with most companies, the systematic
              profitable growth in the years ahead,       search for and development of talent at
              especially so in the promising regions      leoni is traditionally concentrated in
              of asia and the americas. about 68,000      its home region. meanwhile, however,
              people in our group of companies are        there is also corresponding activity in
              working towards this strategic objective.   many of the countries of importance to us;
              as a leading provider of cables, we         countries where we produce and sell.
              continuously seek new talent; people        we intend to globalise our talent search
              who will take our expansion forward with    even more in the years ahead – in tandem
              skill, commitment and creativity. to find   with the growth of the whole company.
              them, to train them, to excite them about
              leoni and to retain them within the         see on the following pages how leoni
              company, we aim to be the preferred         gains, trains and promotes talented
              employer of choice for as many talents as   people, and how it retains them. and get
              possible. leoni illustrates what we are     to know four talented people who are
              doing to achieve this with four specific    either already contributing to leoni‘s
              examples.                                   success or will do so in the future.

                    contesting
    rethinking




                                 studying
                                            talents




trusting




                 persevering

24 |   www.leoni.com




                       getting attention – how leoni gains talented people

                       able young professionals are in demand – especially during times of demographic change, which is already
                       perceptible in many countries. a company that wants to secure young talents for itself has to attract their
                       attention early and effectively – ideally while they are still at school or university. to arouse the interest of
                       university students, leoni keeps in multifaceted touch with universities around the globe and builds on this
                       collaboration step by step. a lot of activity in germany, where relationships with universities are a tradition,
                       provides the template.



                       direct line to students and professors                        harmonising activity outside germany
                       initial contact with students is frequently established       leoni also maintains contact with universities at
                       at university fairs, where leoni introduces itself            many significant locations outside germany. there
                       and provides potential candidates with information            are collaborative arrangements with universities
                       about the company and career opportunities. in ger-           in, for example, egypt, france, mexico, romania,
                       many we attended 30 university fairs in the past year.        serbia and the united states. in some countries
                       in addition, there were a large number of events in           there are also graduate projects and the option of
                       other countries. our close collaboration with profes-         doing internships or final papers at leoni. in many
                       sors establishes further valuable connections. leoni          instances this activity is initially coordinated by the
                       organises practical application projects, presenta-           human resources management at the respective
                       tions and excursions together with university tutors,         facilities. we are currently stepping up coordination
                       student initiatives and university groups. formula            via corporate head office to agree and harmonise
                       student also creates very good, personal contact              these measures worldwide.
                       with students. in this international design compe-
                       tition, students from universities around the world           country websites and consistent portal
                       develop race cars and compete against each other; in          for online applicants
                       germany at the hockenheimring, for instance. leoni            talented young people nowadays use mainly the
                       sponsors two formula student teams as a develop-              internet when they are seeking information on
                       ment partner and some other participants financially          career opportunities and available jobs at potential
                       or with high-tech cable harnesses.                            employers. leoni will therefore in the future set
                                                                                     up uniform country websites for all regions with
                       sponsored by leoni                                            larger facilities. they will contain information about
                       we sponsor student initiative events to raise leoni’s         leoni’s activity in the country, about the company
                       profile as an employer. during the football world             as an employer and upcoming recruiting events.
                       championship year of 2014, for instance, we were              at the same time job seekers can, via a standardised
                       the principal sponsor throughout the public viewing           applicants’ tool on the internet, obtain information
                       at the technical faculty of the university of erlan-          on available jobs in the respective country‘s lan-
                       gen-nuremberg. in addition there was sponsorship              guage, apply for particular positions or register
                       directly involving colleges and universities as well          as an interested party.
                       as advertisements and editorial contributions in
                       student magazines and electronic media.


dalia azab
leoni wiring systems egypt s.a.e , cairo
administrator human resources


dalia azab became aware of leoni during a career
contacts day at university in cairo after completing
her human resource management studies at the
british university in egypt. now age 23, she applied
for an internship during which she helped with
broadening the collaboration with universities
by way of excursions, graduate projects, higher
education fairs and student associations. above all,
she liked the fact that both sides benefit from such
collaboration: leoni can discover new talent and
fulfil its social responsibility, while students get the
opportunity to acquire initial practical experience.
ms azab has been fully employed at leoni as hr
administrator since 2014.

                                                               communicating




 » the internship, during which
 i learned a lot and was soon able
 to put my theoretical knowledge
 into practice, was a good way of
 embarking on a career. «
 dalia azab




                                                           trying out




                                                                                   talents
                                                                               gaining them

26 |   www.leoni.com




                       setting the course – how leoni trains talented people

                       at leoni, talented youngsters are prepared in a targeted way for taking on responsible, interesting jobs.
                       globalisation is an increasingly important topic in this respect, particularly in trainee programmes.



                       trainee programme with foreign assignment                 own responsibility and project-focused, and they are
                       leoni has such programmes in its wire & cable             supported with career-related seminars. by spending
                       solutions division, in its wiring systems division as     time in different departments and locations, they
                       well as within its holding company. their objective       can, during their training already, establish a net-
                       is to provide the next generation of specialist staff     work of contacts in and outside germany, which will
                       and managers with comprehensive qualifications.           be of value as their career progresses.
                       university graduates with above-average final
                       scores and initial practical experience are welcome       talented people from growth regions
                       to apply. during their training, these people will get    at the moment, the majority of trainees still come
                       to know several of the company‘s facilities in and        from germany. in order to enhance our expertise
                       outside germany.                                          on the growth areas of asia and the americas, we
                                                                                 intend to increasingly take on young people from
                       division-specific or interdisciplinary                    there as well. a pilot programme is currently under
                       a trainee programme in the wiring systems division,       way with a talented young person from china in
                       for example, takes 18 months, of which one third of       our wire & cable solutions division.
                       the time is spent outside germany. the training is
                       either division-specific or interdisciplinary. when we    specific succession planning:
                       identify requirement in a particular skills area, like    executive management programme
                       controlling, human resources or research & devel-         with its executive management programme (emp),
                       opment, we will offer a programme to university           leoni has a dedicated scheme for providing talented
                       graduates who have focused their studies on corre-        people who already have career experience with
                       sponding courses and that involves various areas of       qualifications. the emp selectively prepares suitable
                       deployment within this division.                          candidates for executive tasks – for instance to suc-
                                                                                 ceed in management positions that become availa-
                       our interdisciplinary trainee programmes are either       ble due to retirement. the programme normally
                       commercially or technically focused and provide           takes two years, has a pronounced international
                       insight into various of the company‘s functional          outlook and is offered at both of our company‘s
                       areas. finally, and depending on actual requirement       divisions. the participants thereby get to know
                       at leoni as well as the skill of the graduate, it can     leoni in depth and across its divisions. at least two
                       be decided which job she or he is to take on in the       of the locations of deployment are outside germany.
                       future. from the outset, our trainees work on their


 » the executive management
 programme constitutes ideal preparation
 for me to assume a management
 position at leoni. «
 dr lukas von arx




                                         networking




                                                      advancing


dr lukas von arx
leoni kabel holding gmbh, roth
executive trainee & project manager


dr lukas von arx has been passing through an
executive management programme (emp) in the
wire & cable solutions division since april 2013.
a doctor of business administration, von arx began
his career at leoni studer in switzerland in 1999.
the emp took the now 31-year-old to germany,
canada, serbia as well as the united states and
brought him into contact with different manage-
ment methods and many interesting people – the
basis for a very good professional network. after
completing the programme, he will take on the
position of vice president of sales at leoni elocab
in canada.




                                                                  talents
                                                         training them

28 |   www.leoni.com




                       life-long learning – how leoni promotes talented people

                       leoni employees can broaden their skills in many respects and learn new things. alongside the option
                       to participate in career-related further and advanced training, there are human resource development
                       programmes that provide young talents with targeted tuition. one example is our management development
                       center, which serves to recognise and promote potential. it shows prospective managers where their
                       strengths and weaknesses lie, and what career opportunities there might be for them at leoni. people
                       who successfully complete this programme also become candidates for the management development
                       circle (mdc).



                       targeted advancement in the management                   strengthening regions
                       development circle                                       life-long learning is an increasingly global topic
                       between 20 and 25 specialist and managerial staff        at leoni. the local demand for skilled trades and
                       members are chosen every year – starting with            management personnel is also growing in line
                       group-wide processes to assess potential – for           with the significance of facilities in the key growth
                       the management development circle, which has             regions. leoni has revamped its international man-
                       been in place at leoni for twelve years already.         agement training and standardised it worldwide to
                       the participants come from various departments           underpin this and to promote people in a targeted
                       and countries: twelve different nations were repre-      way. this newly launched programme will be rolled
                       sented in 2014. during three modules each taking         out in several countries in 2015; the focal areas being
                       several days, they are professionally coached on such    asia and the americas. furthermore, suitable staff
                       topics as leadership and project management as well      members from these regions – above all technicians,
                       as given the opportunity to discuss ideas with other     engineers and project leaders – will be able to
                       participants. in addition to the systematic provision    undergo two years of training on the job in europe
                       of qualifications, this also establishes networks        and then, with their acquired know-how, return to
                       across countries and business divisions, which are       their original location to take on specialist or, where
                       just as important to the success of leoni itself as to   appropriate, management responsibility.
                       advancement of the participants.


                 jim guo
                 leoni electrical systems co. ltd., shanghai
                 plant manager less


                 jim guo is a talent who has already completed
                 the management development circle and
                 become familiar with numerous leoni facilities.
                 the 37-year-old has been with the company for
                 nine years and is now in charge of all five of our wir-
                 ing systems division plants in asia in his position as
                 chief operating officer region asia & plant director
                 shanghai. in the mdc he established good contact
                 with numerous colleagues. he appreciates their
taking
responsibility   quick thinking, experience-based decision-making
                 and their readiness to break new ground.




                 » the intercultural experience
                 i gathered in the management
                 development circle helps in
                 successfully mastering the
                 challenges of our international
                 business «
                 jim guo




                                             combining




                                                                                 talents
                                                                           promoting them

30 |   www.leoni.com




                       staying – how leoni retains talented people
                       being and remaining an employer of choice requires multifaceted measures aimed at motivating staff
                       members and retaining them long-term. a modern, pleasant work environment is just as important in
                       this respect as attractive pay and the prospect of personal advancement. campaigns that promote team
                       spirit outside everyday work life also play a significant role; like the regularly contested leoni world
                       football championship.



                       working in a creative atmosphere                           organising and overseeing the foreign deployments.
                       the modernised and extended leoni facility in              the preparation phase includes intercultural training
                       kitzingen, the headquarters of the wiring systems          sessions. during the actual deployment, which
                       division, is exemplary in terms of work environment.       normally covers between one and four years, hr and
                       more than 200 employees have been working there            iam are available to expats as a contact and after-
                       in a creative, comfortable atmosphere since mid-           wards support the staff member with their return or
                       2014. in two extensively refurbished workshops,            preparing for a new international assignment.
                       open spaces, ample light, modern furniture and
                       muted acoustics provide an inspirational setting.          going global
                       innovative seating arrangements, meeting islands           in the past year, about 120 leoni employees
                       and atriums, which can also be used for meetings,          worked as expats – which involved about 50 differ-
                       make communication easier and promote it.                  ent country combinations. here too, regions outside
                                                                                  germany are increasingly gaining significance:
                       international assignment as opportunity                    whereas, in 2010, 75 percent of the assignments
                       with leoni’s increasing degree of internationalisa-        were still from and to germany, this was down to
                       tion, there are also a rising number of expatriates        just 55 percent in 2014. meanwhile, almost half of all
                       (or ‘expats’) who, for a limited time, work for our        the assignments are between countries other than
                       company in a country other than that of their origin.      germany – the focal areas ever more so being asia
                       with these deployments, leoni can develop know-            and the americas.
                       how in growth regions and fill key positions with
                       skilled people. at the same time, employees get the
                       opportunity to familiarise themselves better with
                       leoni around the world, to broaden their own hori-
                       zons and to experience new challenges.


                       being looked after well when going abroad
                       it is of crucial importance to making foreign
                       assignments attractive that expats are well cared
                       for before, during and after their deployment. leoni
                       has an international assignment management (iam)
                       system for this purpose. together with human
                       resources (hr) management, iam takes care of




                                                                                  rooms flooded with light and plenty of green: the new building in kitzingen


selene villalobos
leoni wiring systems (tieling) co., ltd., tieling city
quality manager


selene villalobos has, since the autumn of 2014,
been working on a two-year project to set up quality
management at our new facility in tieling, china. the
42-year-old manager has been with leoni since 2007;
she was previously in charge of quality management
in hermosillo, mexico. the stay in china is giving her
insight into a foreign culture and putting her in touch
with people who think and live differently. at the same
time, she is able to share her know-how and experience
with her colleagues and to support them in setting up
the new facility in the best possible way.




                                                     learning




» this international assignment
gives me the opportunity
to do what i like doing best:
to learn new things and to
pass on knowledge «
selene villalobos




                                                          informing




                                                                          talents
                                                                      keeping them

32 |   www.leoni.com




                                             corporate governance report and statement
                                             corporate governance at leoni
                                             leoni is committed to maintaining responsible and transparent corporate governance, the basis of which
                                             consists of statutory rules, leoni ag’s articles of association, the rules of procedure for the management
                                             board and supervisory board, and the german corporate governance code (‘code’). we observe these rules
                                             and guidelines in all decision-making processes. in line with the legal requirements for a german public
                                             company, leoni ag has a dual management system that is characterised by the separation of personnel
                                             between the management board as the executive and corporate business management body and the super-
                                             visory board as the corporate monitoring body. hereinafter we report pursuant to section 3.10 of the code on
                                             our corporate governance as well as, in accordance with article 289a of the german commercial code (hgb),
                                             on our key corporate governance practices.


                                             implementation of the german corporate governance code
                                             in the 2014 financial year, leoni ag conformed to all the recommendations and suggestions of the code in its
                                             versions of 13 may 2013 and 24 june 2014 with one exception. this concerns the recommendation in section
                                             4.2.2 (2) sentence 3 whereby the compensation for members of the management board should be guided
                                             by that for senior management and the workforce as a whole, also over time. given that the overwhelming
                                             majority of leoni staff are employed in non-european countries, it is the supervisory board’s view that this
                                             benchmark for comparison does not provide a suitable guide. any demarcation between senior management
                                             and the relevant workforce could, furthermore, be freely manipulated. the supervisory board therefore
                                             deems the legal requirements pursuant to article 87 of the german public companies act on assessment of
                                             management board compensation and the existing practice, which considers the trend of wages and salaries
                                             within the company on a regular basis, to be sufficient. the current declaration of conformity explains this
                 declaration of conformity   deviation in detail. all other recommendations and all suggestions of the code in its current version should be
                 ›› page 38
                                             fulfilled in the future, too.


                                             shareholders and annual general meeting
                                             each share in leoni ag on principle has one vote. during the annual general meeting on 8 may 2014, all of
                                             our shareholders were once again able to exercise their equal voting rights and enter into dialogue with the
                                             members of both the management board and supervisory board on any agenda items.


                                             the invitation to the annual general meeting as well as the legally required reports and documents including
                                             the annual report were readily accessible on the company‘s website together with the agenda in both german
                                             and mostly also english. all other relevant information was published in this easily accessible way on leoni’s
                 leoni website               website and sent out electronically upon request.
                 ›› www.leoni.com


                                             during the annual general meeting on 8 may 2014, three voting right representatives were available to share-
                                             holders not present to cast their votes as instructed, thereby making it easier for shareholders to exercise their
                                             rights. shareholders were able at any time to authorise and instruct these representatives, who were available
                                             to all shareholders throughout the meeting.

                                                                                                company information   | corporate governance report     |   33
                                                                                                                        and statement




interested parties and shareholders who did not attend the annual general meeting were able to follow the                  president & ceo’s speech
                                                                                                                           ›› https://www.leoni.com/
president & ceo’s speech and a presentation shown during this speech on the internet. this presentation is                     de/go/hv14pdf/

available on our website.


corporate governance by the management board
the management board is responsible for the corporate governance of leoni ag. it acts in the interests of
leoni ag with the aim of raising its enterprise value on a lasting basis. to do so, the board develops a suitable
strategy, agrees this with the supervisory board and ensures that it is implemented. its duties also include
effective opportunity and risk management as well as controlling and ensuring of compliance (observance of
legal requirements and guidelines within the company) throughout the group.


the law, the code and rules of procedure, which also stipulate the management board’s obligations concern-
ing provision of information and reporting, govern the collaboration and division of duties among members
of the board. the rules of procedure also contain the departmental responsibilities of the individual board
members, matters that are the responsibility of the whole management board, the required majority as well
as a catalogue of the types of transaction requiring the supervisory board’s approval.


the system for compensating members of the management board that had been in place since 1 january
2010 continued to apply without change in the past financial year, but ended on 31 december 2014. due
to updates to the code, the supervisory board decided on a new compensation system for the management
board, which shareholders approved at the annual general meeting on 8 may 2014. it has applied from
1 january 2015. all the information on the past and new system for compensating management board
members is contained in the compensation report.                                                                           compensation report
                                                                                                                           ›› page 118


the management board was enlarged from three to four members in fiscal 2014. dr frank hiller, who was
appointed during the supervisory board meeting on 5 december 2013 to join the management board
effective 1 april 2014, took charge of the wire & cable solutions division on 1 july 2014. his term of office
and employment contract expire on 31 december 2017. in its meeting on 24 march 2014 the supervisory
board extended the terms of office and the employment contracts of management board member dr klaus
probst until 30 june 2015 as well as those of management board members dieter bellé and dr andreas
brand until 31 december 2019, in each case commencing on 1 january 2015. the extension in the case of
dr brand was done earlier to have continuity in the wiring systems division, which he is in charge of, and
to ensure furtherance of the adopted long-term strategy.


dr klaus probst, the incumbent president & ceo, will retire from the management board of leoni ag at his
own request upon close of the annual general meeting scheduled for 7 may 2015. the supervisory board
appointed dieter bellé as his successor during its meeting on 4 december 2014. he will assume the office of
management board chairman, and hence of president & ceo, after the annual general meeting scheduled
for 7 may 2015 in addition to his existing duties as cfo and labour director. once dr klaus probst has retired,
the management board will be down to three members again.

34 |   www.leoni.com




                                            the management board comprised the following members in 2014:


                                             dr-ing. klaus probst, doctor of engineering, 61
                                             first appointed:                                  1997 (with leoni since 1989)
                                             appointed until:                                  30/06/2015
                                             areas of responsibility:                          president & ceo, head of the wire & cable solutions division (until 30/06/2014) as well
                                                                                               as management board member responsible for the corporate communications and
                                                                                               corporate internal audit departments
                                             dieter bellé,
                                             graduate in business administration, 58
                                             first appointed:                                  2000
                                             appointed until:                                  31/12/2019
                                             areas of responsibility:                          head of the corporate controlling & accounting, finance, legal affairs, information
                                                                                               management, risk management / compliance, investor relations, taxes, information
                                                                                               security and human resources departments; labour director
                                             dr-ing. andreas brand,
                                             doctor of engineering, 48
                                             first appointed:                                  2012
                                             appointed until:                                  31/12/2019
                                             areas of responsibility:                          head of the wiring systems division
                                             dr-ing. frank hiller,
                                             doctor of engineering, 48
                                             first appointed:                                  2014
                                             appointed until:                                  31/12/2017
                                             areas of responsibility:                          head of the wire & cable solutions division (since 01/07/2014)



                                            work of the supervisory board
                                            the supervisory board of leoni ag monitors and advises the management board in running the company.
                                            in accordance with the german codetermination act, the board has an equal number of six members
                                            representing employees and six members representing shareholders. its composition is in line with the latest
                                            code requirements concerning diversity and appropriate participation of women as well as the criteria of
                                            independence, experience, internationalism and expertise of the board members.


                                            the supervisory board of leoni ag has, regardless of introduction of any legal requirements, set itself the
                                            objective of responding as soon as possible to the recommendations of the code in terms of diversity and to
                 supervisory board report   facilitate appropriate participation of women. further details in this regard are to be found in the supervisory
                 ›› page 9
                                            board report.


                                            the supervisory board’s work is governed by the law, the articles of association, the code and rules of
                                            procedure. there are furthermore the audit committee, the personnel committee, the nomination
                                            committee, the arbitration committee and the strategy committee, which, apart from the arbitration
                                            committee, met regularly during the year under report. the audit committee’s chairperson is independent
                                            and not simultaneously the chairperson of the supervisory board; he or she has financial expertise covering­
                                            the particular knowledge required for this office. at no time will he or she have been a member of the
                 supervisory board and      management board of leoni ag. the section supervisory board and management board in the annual
                 management board
                 ›› page 17                 report provides information on the composition of the committees. further details of the way the supervisory
                                            board works as well as on the number and principal topics of the committees and its 2014 meetings are

                                                                                              company information   | corporate governance report   |   35
                                                                                                                      and statement




comprehensively presented in the supervisory board report. the compensation report provides information                  supervisory board report
                                                                                                                         ›› page 9
on the breakdown and amount of compensation for supervisory board members.
                                                                                                                         compensation report
                                                                                                                         ›› page 118
the supervisory board regularly audits the efficiency of its work based on a comprehensive questionnaire,
which was optimised in 2014 based on the recommendations of an external consultant. the supervisory
board approved these suggestions in its meeting on 24 july 2014 and they were incorporated in the review of
efficiency that was carried out in the autumn of 2014. the findings of this new questionnaire were presented
during the supervisory board’s meeting on 4 december 2014. the members of the supervisory board
thereupon confirmed that they were satisfied with the procedures and the information provided.


with the exception of prof. dr klaus wucherer, the members of leoni ag’s supervisory board each hold a
maximum of three other supervisory board offices at other companies or on supervisory bodies of companies
that impose comparable requirements. prof. dr klaus wucherer has a total of four other mandates.


advanced training was a key part of the work for the supervisory board and its members again in 2014.
the focus was on subjects involving corporate governance, compliance, the code and the increased demands
on supervisory board members in terms of duties and supervision. so far as required, the company gave
members of the supervisory board adequate support in seeking, as is their personal responsibility, the train-
ing and further education required to perform their duties. according to the currently applicable articles
of association, this also includes assumption of the cost of appropriate further training.


collaboration between the management board and supervisory board
the management and supervisory boards of leoni ag collaborated closely and in mutual trust for the benefit
of the company again during the year under report. the management board’s rules of procedure stipulated
its obligations concerning provision of information and reporting. during the supervisory board meetings,
the management board and supervisory board discussed all key strategic decisions as well as transactions
requiring consent openly and based on maintaining strict confidentiality. the management board kept the
supervisory board comprehensively informed on a regular and up-to-date basis about all key matters as well
as the planning, business performance, the risk situation and the compliance measures. in addition to the reg-
ular supervisory board meetings, the chairmen of the management board and supervisory board discussed all
relevant, currents matters on a fixed day every month. the supervisory board report also contains additional             supervisory board report
                                                                                                                         ›› page 9
information on the collaboration between the management board and the supervisory board.


d&o insurance with an excess, which for the event of any single claim for damages involves at least 10 percent
and a maximum of one and a half times the individual member’s fixed annual compensation, was in place for
members of the management and supervisory boards during the year under report.


compliance
again during the year under report, the management board dealt with the organisation and further develop-
ment of all compliance matters and ensured implementation of the necessary measures. it regularly informed
the supervisory board on the latest status. the latter monitored the corresponding activity. in addition, the
audit committee on several occasions reviewed the content, organisation and further development of
compliance. more information on compliance is to be found in the section of the group management report
headed risk and opportunity report.                                                                                     risk and opportunity
                                                                                                                        report
                                                                                                                        ›› page 98

36 |   www.leoni.com




                 leoni website           other corporate governance practices
                 ›› www.leoni.com
                                         throughout the reporting period, leoni’s corporate governance was aligned to recognised external standards
                                         and various of our own sets of rules in addition to the legal requirements and the code. these include the un
                                         global compact and the diversity charter as well as internal guidelines like the leoni social charta, the leoni
                                         code of ethics as well as division-specific guidelines on quality and environmental policy, all of which can be
                 sustainability report   viewed on leoni’s website. more information on this is to be found in the sustainability report.
                 ›› page 93


                                         transparency
                                         leoni ag informed its shareholders, the shareholder associations, financial analysts, the media and the
                                         interested public equally, promptly and comprehensively about the company‘s performance and significant
                                         events, for which the company again made use of a wide variety of media during the period under report.
                                         all mandatory publications as well as extensive supplementary information were always made available in
                                         a timely manner on leoni’s website. the publications, such as ad hoc announcements, media releases,
                                         interim and annual reports were always issued in both german and english. leoni ag always also broadcast
                                         conference calls as well as the annual balance sheet press conference and the analyst conference live on the
                                         internet, where audio and video recordings are easily accessible for a limited period. the latest fiscal calendar,
                 leoni website           which provides information on the dates for all key releases and events, can also be viewed on the website.
                 ›› www.leoni.com


                                         accounting and audit of financial statements
                                         the consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2014 as well as the condensed consolidated interim financial
                                         statements in the half-year report and in the quarterly reports of leoni ag were prepared in accordance
                                         with the international financial reporting standards (ifrs). at the annual general meeting on 8 may 2014,
                                         accountants ernst & young gmbh of stuttgart were appointed as the auditors for the year under report. the
                                         nomination was preceded by an examination of independence. this ruled out any business, financial, personal
                                         and other relations between auditors and their corporate bodies as well as chief auditors on the one hand
                                         and leoni ag as well as members of its corporate bodies on the other hand that might give cause to doubt the
                                         independence of the auditor. ernst & young issued a correspondingly binding declaration of independence in
                                         this respect.


                                         the supervisory board furthermore agreed with the auditor that the latter would be notified without delay
                                         of findings and occurrences material to its duties that arise during execution of the audit. accordingly, the
                                         auditors are obliged to advise the supervisory board, or note it in their audit report, if pieces of information
                                         are found that point to incorrectness in the declaration pursuant to the code submitted by the management
                                         and supervisory boards.


                                         directors’ dealings and shareholdings
                                         all share transactions carried out by members of the management board and of the supervisory board as well
                                         as parties related to them (directors’ dealings pursuant to article 15a of the german securities trading act)
                                         were published on leoni’s website as soon as leoni ag was advised to this effect. the following transactions
                                         were reported for fiscal 2014:

                                                                                                                            company information   | corporate governance report   |   37
                                                                                                                                                    and statement




date          notifying party, function         issuer      transactions subject to                           place of transaction
                                                            mandatory disclosure
12/08/2014    dr klaus probst, president &      leoni ag1   purchase of 5,000 no-par-value leoni              xetra via sparkasse nuremberg
              ceo of leoni ag                               shares1 at a price of € 47.99 per share.
                                                            total amount: € 239,950.00
08/08/2014    rupp vermögensverwaltung          leoni ag1   purchase of 1,500 no-par-value leoni              stuttgart via fürst fugger
              gmbh, legal entity closely                    shares1 at a price of € 49.13 per share.          privatbank, munich
              related to a person in a senior               total amount: € 73,695.00
              position
04/08/2014    rupp vermögensverwaltung          leoni ag1   purchase of 750 no-par-value leoni                tradegate via fürst fugger
              gmbh, legal entity closely                    shares1 at a price of € 50.0690 per share.        privatbank, munich
              related to a person in a senior               total amount: € 37,551.75
              position
01/08/2014    rupp vermögensverwaltung          leoni ag1   sale of 750 no-par-value leoni shares1            tradegate via fürst fugger
              gmbh, legal entity closely                    at a price of € 50.0410 per share.                privatbank, munich
              related to a person in a senior               total amount: € 37,530.75
              position
24/06/2014    richard paglia, member of the leoni ag1       purchase of 197 no-par-value leoni                xetra via dab bank, munich
              supervisory board of leoni ag                 shares1 at a price of € 58.50 per share.
                                                            total amount: € 11,524.50
21/05/2014    dieter bellé, member of           leoni ag1   purchase of 600 no-par-value leoni                online via ing-diba
              the management board                          shares1 at a price of € 53.3667 per share.
              of leoni ag                                   total amount: € 32,020.00
16/05/2014    rupp vermögensverwaltung          leoni ag1   purchase of 2,000 no-par-value leoni              xetra via fürst fugger privat-
              gmbh, legal entity closely                    shares1 at a price of € 53.66 per share.          bank kommanditgesellschaft,
              related to a person in a senior               total amount: € 107,320.00                        munich
              position
13/05/2014    dr bernd rödl, member of the leoni ag1        purchase of 1,000 no-par-value leoni              tradegate exchange, berlin
              supervisory board of leoni ag                 shares1 at a price of € 54.5568 per share.
                                                            total amount: € 54,556.80
13/05/2014    dr klaus probst, president &      leoni ag1   purchase of 4,000 no-par-value leoni              xetra of deutsche börse,
              ceo of leoni ag                               shares1 at a price of € 54.4976 per share.        frankfurt via sparkasse
                                                            total amount: € 217,990.40                        nuremberg
09/05/2014    dieter bellé, member of           leoni ag1   purchase of 2,000 no-par-value leoni              online via ing-diba
              the management board                          shares1 at a price of € 52.80 per share.
              of leoni ag                                   total amount: € 105,609.00
25/03/2014    christopher probst, person        leoni ag1   purchase of 3,000 no-par-value leoni              xetra of deutsche börse,
              closely related to a senior                   shares1 at a price of € 48.95 per share.          frankfurt via sparkasse
              executive (son of dr klaus                    total amount: € 146,850.00                        nuremberg
              probst – president & ceo)
25/03/2014    dr klaus probst, president &      leoni ag1   purchase of 3,000 no-par-value leoni              xetra of deutsche börse,
              ceo of leoni ag                               shares1 at a price of € 48.95 per share.          frankfurt via sparkasse
                                                            total amount: € 146,850.00                        nuremberg
1
    wkn 540888, isin de0005408884

members of the management board and the supervisory board held shares issued by leoni ag on
31 december 2014. these holdings broke down as follows:


shareholdings                                                   no. of shares                          percentage of share capital of
                                                                on 31/12/2014                          32.669 million shares
supervisory board members and related parties                   14,409                                 0.04
management board members and related parties                    138,505                                0.42
supervisory board and management board, total                   152,914                                0.47

38 |   www.leoni.com




                       declaration of conformity

                       declaration of the management board and supervisory board of leoni ag pursuant to article 161
                       of the german public companies act (aktg) on the recommendations of the government commission
                       on the german corporate governance code


                       leoni ag has, since issuing its most recent declaration of conformity in december 2013, conformed to the
                       recommendations of the ‘government commission on the german corporate governance code’ in the version
                       of 13 may 2013 as announced by the federal ministry of justice in the official part of the federal gazette with
                       the following exception, and will also in future conform to the recommendations of the code in its version of
                       24 june 2014 with the following exception.


                       the supervisory board of leoni ag diligently considers the appropriateness of the compensation for
                       members of the management board based on regularly reviewing the wages and salaries paid within the
                       company, however without specifically or in a structured way conforming to the recommendation in section
                       4.2.2 (2) sentence 3 of the german corporate governance code (‘code’). the supervisory board is convinced
                       that the existing practice and legal requirements pursuant to article 87 of the german public companies act
                       on assessment of management board compensation based on consideration of the usual compensation is
                       sufficient. benchmarks for comparison only make sense when they are realistic, provide guidance and
                       leave ample scope for consideration of individual cases. in the view of the supervisory board, the code
                       recommendation in section 4.2.2 (2) sentence 3 does not meet these requirements, especially in a company
                       like leoni where an overwhelming proportion of staff members are employed in non-european countries.
                       the supervisory board believes that any demarcation between senior management and the relevant
                       workforce could be freely manipulated and would not result in any more comprehensible standards for
                       comparison. the recommendation therefore does not provide an efficient aid to determining management
                       board compensation.


                       nuremberg, 4 december 2014


                       leoni ag
                       on behalf of the management board        on behalf of the supervisory board




                                     			                                              		
                       dr klaus probst			                       dr werner rupp

                                                                                                                                                    company information   | the leoni share    |   39




the leoni share
120


share price performance 2014



110




100




    90




    80
                                                                                                                                                                            leoni
                                                                                                                                                                            dax
                                                                                                                                                                            mdax

                                                                                                                                                                            indexed
            jan         feb       march        apr          may            june               july        aug          sep          oct        nov          dec             30 december 2013


overview of leoni share key data

first listed on                                                      1 january 1923

ticker symbol                                                        leo

isin                                                                 de0005408884

wkn                                                                  de540888

class of shares                                                      ordinary bearer shares with no par value

market segment                                                       prime standard

indices                                                              mdax

share capital                                                        € 32,669,000

number of shares                                                     32,669,000


multi-year overview of key leoni share figures
                                                                                  2014                   2013              20124            2011             2010
number of shares at yearend                            in millions           32.669                   32.669             32.669            32.669           29.700
earnings                                                 € / share                3.51                   3.23                4.80            4.99                2.26
equity                                                   € / share            28.09                     25.33             24.00             23.65            16.20
dividend                                                 € / share                1.201                   1.00               1.50            1.50                0.70
total payout                                            € million                 39.2   1
                                                                                                          32.7               49.0            49.0                20.8
payout ratio                                                    %                  341                      31                31               31                 31


high for the year 2                                      € / share            60.66                     55.08             40.21             42.31            34.81
low for the year 2                                       € / share            39.02                     28.97             23.42             21.69            13.43
yearend closing price 2                                  € / share            49.40                     54.33             28.55             25.75            32.95
price/earnings ratio 3                                                            14.1                   16.8                 5.9             5.2                14.6
dividend yield     3
                                                                %                  2.4   1
                                                                                                          1.8                 5.3             5.8                 2.1


market capitalisation on 31 dec.                        € million             1,614                     1,775                933              841                979
average daily trading volume                         no. of shares          247,842                  226,364           284,545            343,845          237,628

1
    subject to approval by shareholders at the annual general meeting                3
                                                                                             based on yearend closing price
2
    xetra closing price of the day                                                   4
                                                                                             adjustment of various pre-year amounts due to amendment of ias 19

40 |   www.leoni.com




                       equity markets mixed in 2014
                       performance on global stock markets was very mixed in the past year. the front runner among the industri-
                       alised countries was the usa, where, underpinned by the economic growth, the s&p index made significant
                       gains in the course of the year. the japanese nikkei likewise closed out the year with a considerable rise. in
                       europe, the rather disappointing economic figures and geopolitical risks offset the positive effects of loose
                       monetary policy, meaning that gains and losses on the major markets roughly cancelled each other out. the
                       european market barometer, the stoxx europe, did at least register a slight gain. china stood out among the
                       emerging countries with measures to, among other things, liberalise securities trading, which resulted in
                       strong increases in share prices. the indian stock market also put on a sparkling performance thanks to the
                       pace of reform in the country. by contrast, the markets in brazil and russia had to contend with a setback.


                       although, in 2014, germany’s leading dax index rose to a five-digit level for the first time and reached a new
                       all-time high of 10,093 points in december, overall, and despite the tailwind provided by the expansionary
                       monetary policy of the european central bank, it only made a gain of just short of 3 percent year on year.
                       the mdax recorded an increase of about 2 percent. the automotive and component supply sectors also
                       presented a volatile picture. however, the dax ‘automobile’ sector and the sub-index for the automotive
                       component suppliers closed out the year with overall gains of 7 and 9 percent, respectively.


                       leoni share at all-time high mid-year, but down overall
                       following strong gains in the previous year, the performance of leoni’s share was initially subdued in the
                       first half of 2014 – despite a brief upward trajectory in january. apart from the ukraine crisis, our outlook for
                       the year as a whole, which was slightly short of market expectations, probably also dampened full-year
                       performance. underpinned by good prospects for the global automotive industry, our share appreciated
                       significantly from may: by early july it rose to a high for the year at € 60.66, which was also an all-time high.
                       thereafter our share, like the sector as a whole, came under considerable pressure in the wake of the mount-
                       ing geopolitical risks. in addition there was the fact that we had to lower our earnings forecast for 2014 be-
                       cause of exceptional charges due to new product start-ups in the wiring systems division. our share therefore
                       dipped significantly in the third quarter, hitting its low for the year at € 39.02 in october. a slight upside move
                       thereafter set in again. at the end of the year the leoni share traded at € 49.40, which equated to a decline of
                       about 9 percent from the level at the end of the previous year.


                       the market capitalisation of the roughly 32.7 million leoni shares amounted to about € 1,614 million on
                       31 december 2014, down from around € 1,775 million one year earlier.


                       trading volume up
                       a total of about 62.5 million leoni shares changed hands on the frankfurt stock exchange and in the
                       xetra electronic trading system in 2014, as opposed to 57.3 million in the previous year. an average of
                       247,842 shares were thus traded per day (previous year: 226,364). in total, market trading in leoni shares
                       amounted to about € 3,154 million in the past financial year (previous year: € 2,212 million). leoni thus
                       assumed 12th place in deutsche börse’s corresponding mdax ranking, up from 21st in the previous year.

                                                                                                     company information   | the leoni share   |   41




shareholder structure virtually unchanged
the shareholder structure remained largely unchanged in 2014. at the end of the year, about two thirds of the
approximately 32.7 million leoni shares were held by institutional investors. private investors accounted for
about one third of the total. the majority of the shares, namely around two thirds, are held in germany. the
remainder is evenly distributed across the rest of europe, where it is concentrated in the united kingdom, as
well as the united states.


all leoni shares are in free float. the most significant individual shareholders with holdings of between three
and five percent at yearend were wilms beteiligungs gmbh, oslo-based norges bank and the us investment
firm t. rowe price. no single shareholder owned more than 5 percent of the shares on the reporting date. the
voting rights disclosures pursuant to section 21 (1) of the german securities trading act (wphg) that leoni              leoni website
                                                                                                                         ›› www.leoni.com
received during the 2014 financial year can be viewed on our website.


dividend payout
leoni pursues an earnings-oriented growth strategy with shareholders receiving a commensurate return:
in principle, approximately one third of consolidated net income is paid out in dividends. for fiscal 2014,
we will propose to shareholders at the annual general meeting on 7 may 2015 to pay a dividend of € 1.20
per leoni share, up from € 1.00 in the previous year. this would mean a total payout of € 39.2 million to share-
holders (previous year: € 32.7 million).



dividend			 €

                                   0.70                   1.50           1.50    1.00     1.20 1
    2.00

    1.50

    1.00

    0.50

       0
                                   2010                   2011           2012     2013    2014
1
    subject to approval by shareholders at the annual general meeting




dividend yield1			%

                                   2.1                    5.8            5.3 	   1.8 	   2.4  2
     6.0

     4.0

     2.0

       0

                                  2010                  2011            2012     2013    2014
1
  based on yearend closing price
2
  subject to approval by shareholders at the annual general meeting

42 |   www.leoni.com




                       most financial analysts rate leoni as a buy
                       a total of 20 banks and investment firms rated leoni in 2014 (at the end of december). the number of regular
                       monitors was thus down by two institutions from the previous year.


                       based on the still favourable medium-term growth prospects, the majority of the investment professionals
                       continued to rate leoni positively, albeit with a slightly lower target price. of the 20 capital market experts,
                       twelve rated the leoni share as a buy. six issued hold recommendations and two advised to sell.


                       analyst coverage leoni share end of 2014

                       baader bank                                                independent research

                       bankhaus lampe                                             kepler cheuvreux

                       commerzbank                                                landesbank baden-württemberg

                       credit suisse                                              macquarie

                       deutsche bank                                              mainfirst

                       dz bank                                                    metzler

                       equinet                                                    montega

                       exane bnp paribas                                          nord lb

                       goldman sachs                                              oddo seydler

                       hauck & aufhäuser                                          warburg research




                       in-depth investor relations work
                       leoni considers transparency and proactive communication to be core elements of good corporate govern-
                       ance. we advise our shareholders as well as analysts and other financial market players, the media and the in-
                       terested public equally, comprehensively and promptly on the company’s current and projected performance
                       in order thereby to establish lasting confidence among our shareholders and stakeholders.


                       one-on-one dialogue with the aforementioned target groups is of particular importance to our investor
                       relations work. all members of the management board are therefore closely involved in the corresponding
                       activity. in the past year, we presented leoni ag’s performance, strategy and prospects at eight investor con-
                       ferences with international participation in addition to the analyst conference we host each year to present
                       our annual report. there were furthermore a total of 24 national and international roadshows, which, apart
                       from germany, took place mainly in the united kingdom and the united states. this included a visit to the
                       us west coast for the first time. we also continued our activity in canada and australia. members of the
                       management board also held a large number of one-on-one discussions with analysts and representatives
                       of the media.


                       numerous other measures complement these personal presentations: our investor relations team provides
                       timely statements on all share-relevant information by means of ad-hoc announcements as well as other
                       publications, especially annual and interim reports as well as media releases. a separate conference call for
                       analysts and business journalists takes place on each occasion upon release of leoni’s quarterly figures. once
                       a year, we issue invitations to a balance sheet press conference, which is, just like the conferences calls, broad-
                       cast live and in full on the internet.

                                                                                                                                                  company information   | the leoni share   |   43




 we furthermore provide extensive data on our company and the leoni share on our website, which was rede-                                                               leoni website
                                                                                                                                                                        ›› www.leoni.com
 signed in 2014. along with fundamental information, this also includes current analyst recommendations and
 the applicable fiscal calendar. presentations given during the balance sheet press conference and the annual
 general meeting as well as conference calls can also be viewed for a certain period.



 best mdax share in the investors‘ darling 2014 competition
 leoni’s investor relations are also rated favourably by third parties. in the investors’ darling 2014 competition
 for the best capital market communication in germany, we came first among the 50 mdax companies. this
 ranking, published by manager magazin, considers the communication tools that are of key significance to
 the capital market: annual and interim reports as well as websites and presentations for investors. it further-
 more analysed the response from the capital markets based on share performance over one, three as well as
 five years and recorded the opinions of fund managers. the judges, professor henning zülch and his team
 from the leipzig graduate school of management, attached particular importance to the consistency of the
 various tools.




forward-looking statements

this report contains forward-looking statements that are based on management’s current assumptions and estimates concerning future trends. such statements are
subject to risk and uncertainty that leoni cannot control or precisely assess. should imponderables occur or assumptions on which these statements are based prove to
be incorrect, actual results could deviate considerably from those described in these statements. leoni assumes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to
adjust them to events following publication of this report.

leoni at a glance                                       financial report
                                              contact
five-year overview        the leoni group




                                  key dates
     key figures
                     facilities
                     worldwide




2014

                    shareholders’ letter                                 4
company information
                    supervisory board report                             9
                    supervisory board and management board              17
                    leoni 2014 – news from around the world             20
                    main topic: talents                                22
                    corporate governance report and statement           32
                    the leoni share                                     39


financial report
group management report                                                 47
                    principles of the group                             49
                    business and underlying conditions                  53
                    reports by division / segment report                57
                    business report                                     70
                    other indicators                                    83
                    sustainability report                               93
                    risk and opportunity report                         98
                    supplementary report                               112
                    forecast                                           112
                    compensation report                                118
                    disclosures pursuant to art. 315 (4)
                    of the german commercial code                      128


consolidated financial statements                                      131
                    consolidated income statement                      133
                    consolidated statement of comprehensive income     134
                    consolidated statement of cash flows               135
                    consolidated statement of financial position       136
                    consolidated statement of changes in equity        137
                    notes                                              138
                    scope of consolidation                             208
                    independent auditor’s report                       210
                    responsibility statement                           212


additional information                                                 213
                    extract from the financial statement of leoni ag   215
                    appropriation of profits                           217
                    ten-year overview                                  218
                    un global compact index                            220
                    glossary                                           222
                    index of key words                                 224

                                                                                                                      |   47




 group management report

 leoni increased its consolidated sales by about 5 percent to € 4.1 billion
 and therefore to a new record level in 2014. this growth was based
 on the consistently good demand from the international automotive
 industry and the recovery in other important industrial markets.
 both divisions were thus able to expand their business.




49 principles of the group
                                                                                                   83 o
                                                                                                       ther indicators

                        53 business and underlying conditions




                                      57 r eports by division /
                                         segment report                       70 business report

48 |   www.leoni.com




                                                                              118 compensation report




       93 sustainability report
                                                                                                         128 disclosures pursuant
                                    112 supplementary report
                                                                                                            to art. 315 (4) of the
                                                                                                            german commercial
                                                                                                            code


                  98 risk and opportunity report
                                                               112 forecast

                                                                                                                                            | group management report   |   49

                                                                                                                                             principles of the group




principles of the group

business model

leoni is a leading provider of cables and cable systems for the automotive sector and other industries.
the company’s range of products and services comprises wires and optical fibers, cables and cable systems
as well as related components and services. our widespread, worldwide business is divided into two divisions
(or segments): wire & cable solutions (wcs) develops, produces and assembles wires and strands, optical
fibers, standard and special cables, hybrid and optical cables as well as complete cable systems for a very
wide variety of industrial applications. the wiring systems division (wsd) develops, produces and sells cable
harnesses, complete wiring systems as well as related components for the global car, commercial vehicle and
component supply industry.

leoni‘s products and services portfolio


                                                          services




                                                                                                                development / engineering
                                               cable systems / wiring systems

                             cable harnesses             power distributors and connector systems

                      copper cables                    hybrid cables                    optical cables

              wires & strands                          optical fibers                           connectors



the two divisions form a complementary value chain and work closely together in many areas. this provides
multifaceted synergies in know-how and processes and thus a crucial competitive edge. the close collabo-
ration between the two divisions also facilitates synergies in purchasing, development and other corporate
areas as well as in regional market development. in turn, our customers benefit from high levels of specialist
expertise, innovative power, quality and flexibility.



organisational structure
organisation of leoni group


                                                             holding


                             wiring systems                                        wire & cable solutions




the leoni group comprises leoni ag and the two divisions. leoni ag acts as the holding company, per-
forming overarching tasks with its corporate functions. the structure of the two divisions is geared to their
customer groups and markets, subdivided into various business groups and business units. in this way we
can, by addressing them directly, respond quickly to the varying requirements of our customers. the detailed
structure of the divisions and organisational changes are described in the segment report.                                                   reports by division/
                                                                                                                                             segment report
                                                                                                                                             ›› page 57

50 |   www.leoni.com




                                          principal facilities and acquisitions

                                          at the end of 2014, leoni was, with 82 subsidiaries and 82 production facilities in 31 countries, located in
                 world map with the       europe, asia, america and north africa. there was only a minor change in the scope of consolidation during
                 principal facilities
                 ›› leoni at a glance     the year under report, details of which are contained in the notes.
                 notes,
                 scope of consolidation
                 ›› page 208

                                          customers and markets

                                          the leoni group’s customers principally include the motor vehicle manufacturers and their suppliers. in
                                          addition there are manufacturers on commercial vehicles and sports cars as well as companies from a wide
                                          variety of capital goods industries, medical and communications technology, the infrastructure sector, fields
                                          involving renewable energy, transport engineering and major industrial projects as well as the household and
                                          electrical appliance industry. as in the previous year, the automotive industry, which is the most significant
                                          customer sector, accounted for about 75 percent of leoni’s total sales in 2014. likewise as in the previous year,
                                          sales to the five largest customers generated business totalling approximately € 1.5 billion during the year
                                          under report, which equated to about 37 percent of consolidated sales.
                                            in regional terms, our business is focussed on europe, north america and asia. at present, the area encom-
                                          passing europe, the middle east and africa (emea) is, with a share of about 66 percent of sales, still leoni’s
                                          most important market. the americas account for approximately 15 percent and asia/pacific for around 19
                                          percent. more detail of the key customer groups and markets as well as the competitive situation of the two
                 reports by division/     divisions is comprised in the segment report.
                 segment report
                 ›› page 57



                                          group strategy

                                          leoni pursues an earnings-oriented strategy of sustained expansion. we aim not only to grow more strongly
                                          than the respective market segments, but above all also to disproportionately increase our profitability. the
                                          target for growth in consolidated sales is € 5 billion by 2016. the targets for the ebit margin (earnings before
                                          interest and taxes divided by sales) and the roce (return on capital employed) are 7 and 20 percent, respec-
                                          tively. for the long term, too, leoni is aiming for a growth rate that outperforms the market.
                                            in regional terms, this involves planning to forge ahead with our business above all outside europe, espe-
                                          cially in asia and the americas. from a long-term perspective, we are aiming for significantly stronger sales
                                          growth in asia and the americas while maintaining our leading position in europe.
                                            given its strong momentum, our core business with the automotive and component supply industries is tar-
                                          geted to grow substantially worldwide in both of our divisions. in addition, we want to gain a significant share
                                          of sales in the non-automotive segment and grow here, too. to do so, we will continue to invest particularly in
                                          the future markets comprising capital goods, medical technology, communications and infrastructure as well
                                          as to expand our systems business even more strongly. medium-term, the automotive sector is to account for
                                          about 80 percent of consolidated sales, with non-automotive business accounting for around 20 percent.

                                                                                                                     | group management report   |   51

                                                                                                                      principles of the group




in terms of products, we constantly study options for extending our value chain to complement our core
business comprising cables and cable systems. we are thus accumulating development know-how and will
expand our own production capacity in fields that are closely related in terms of technology and application
as well as examine acquisition opportunities.


strategic levers
implementation of the strategy follows the four levers of globalisation, innovation, systems business and
efficiency.

overview of group strategy




                                                       leoni strategic pillars
                                                                            system business
                             globalisation




                                               innovation




                                                                                              efficiency




                                                            leoni group




to step up the globalisation of its business, leoni is setting up not only sales offices, but increasingly also
additional production facilities in key markets. this enables us to offer customers based in these areas local
value creation and a high level of delivery flexibility. the focal areas for growth are asia and the americas.
  to strengthen our power of innovation, we are enhancing and improving our own expertise as well as tech-
nologies and our position in innovation-driven growth markets. in so doing we are geared primarily to such
global megatrends as the growing demand for new mobility solutions. the intention is to further increase              focus on global
                                                                                                                      megatrends
sales of new types of products and solutions, and thereby to raise the proportion of green technologies.              ›› page 52

  leoni rates the systems business and extension of the value chain as key growth drivers. that is why we
intend to develop towards being systems suppliers to additional fields of work and to offer more high-end
services in such areas as engineering. the objective is to further increase the profitable sales in this business.
  efficiency constitutes a key success criterion for leoni’s competitiveness. we are raising this by realising
synergies, rationalising as well as optimising our business processes and production networks. the annual
efficiency gains are to offset increases in staff and material costs.
  the two divisions have set themselves individual, strategic targets for the four levers and have determined
corresponding projects. the segment report provides specific information on the progress in implementing              reports by division/
                                                                                                                      segment report
these strategic projects. details of the group-wide funding strategy are to be found in the section on the            ›› page 57

financial situation. leoni does not have any strategic equity interests.
                                                                                                                      financial situation
                                                                                                                      ›› page 75

52 |   www.leoni.com




                                       geared to global megatrends
                                       we monitor and assess global trends in order to continuously review our long-term alignment and to develop
                                       new fields of business. the chart below illustrates the flows in and drivers of demand that are important to us
                                       at present and shows how leoni derives targeted benefit from the resulting growth opportunities in these
                                       most significant markets.

                                       leoni strategy – global trends

                                                                     demand drivers                                               examples of growth areas

                                                                          demographic change                                                health care
                                                                          urbanisation                                                      power generation and efficiency
                                                                          globalisation                                                     safety
                                            global trends                 environmental awareness & shortage of resources                   environment and climate protection

                                                                          industrialisation & automation                                    communication

                                                                          mobility                                                          electromobility




                                                                          allocation of innovative topics                                   automotive & commercial vehicles
                                            leoni’s                       development of new areas                                          industry & healthcare
                                            response                      strengthening system competences                                  communication & infrastructure

                                                                          range expansion of services offered




                                       corporate governance and management system

                                       leoni’s corporate governance is geared to the principles of the german corporate governance code. the
                                       management board is responsible for corporate governance. its work is monitored by the supervisory board.
                                       the management board determines group strategy and, together with those in charge of the divisions and
                                       the individual business units, measures suited to strategy implementation. further information is contained in
                 corporate             the corporate governance report. details of the compensation for members of the management and supervi-
                 governance report
                 ›› page 32            sory boards are presented in the compensation report.
                 compensation report         the operating units are governed by the key figures of sales, earnings before interest and taxes (ebit) and
                 ›› page 118
                                       capital employed as well as free cash flow. we measure the respective target attainment by the benchmarks
                                       of return on sales (ebit margin) and return on capital employed (roce). information on capital management
                 notes                 is contained in the notes. the table below shows the planned and actual figures involving the key bench-
                 ›› page 138
                                       marks for 2014. elaboration on this is to be found on the section overview of leoni’s performance / general
                 overview of leoni’s   statement on the economic situation and in the reports by division / segment report. the targets concerning
                 performance /
                 general statement     the performance indicators for fiscal 2015 are contained in the forecast.
                 on the economic
                 situation
                 ›› page 70            performance indicators leoni group

                 forecast                                                                                                     original forecast   updated forecast                actual
                 ›› page 112                                                                                                       march 2014        october 2014           2014 figures

                                       consolidated sales                                                         € billion         approx. 4.1         approx. 4.1                    4.1

                                       ebit                                                                       € million              > 200                > 180                  182.5

                                       return on sales                                                                   %                > 4.9               > 4.4                  > 4.4

                                       return on capital employed                                                        %          approx. 16           approx. 14                   13.7
                                                          1
                                       free cash flow                                                             € million         approx. 30            approx. 0                  (37.9)
                                       1
                                           before acquisitions and divestment

                                                                                                                        | group management report             |   53

                                                                                                                         business and underlying conditions




business and underlying conditions


macroeconomic trend

according to the international monetary fund (imf), the global economy grew at a pace similar to the previ-
ous year of 3.3 percent in 2014. the global economic trend was extremely volatile. numerous political crises
and the fact that the economic data of many countries – from various eurozone countries to japan, russia and
brazil – fell short of expectations, put a damper on the global economy. by contrast, the relatively strong us
economy and the substantial decline in the oil price in the fourth quarter provided positive stimuli. all told,
the industrialised countries expanded by 1.8 percent last year, supported mainly by us growth of 2.4 percent.
the eurozone grew by a mere 0.8 percent, and this mainly thanks to the robust performance of germany:
the country’s federal office of statistics reported a 1.5 percent rise in gross domestic product in 2014 based
on provisional figures, which benefitted in particular from strong domestic demand.
   economic output in the developing and emerging markets rose by a total of 4.4 percent, with china gener-
ating an outstanding 7.4 percent gain. by contrast, russia and brazil expanded by only 0.6 percent and
0.1 percent, respectively.

world economic growth 2012 to 2014			                                                                              %




                                                                               2012                               3.1

                                                                               2013                               3.3

                                                                               2014                               3.3

source: iwf




economic growth 2014 in selected regions                                               		                          %


   china                                                                                                          7.4

    india                                                                                                         5.8

     usa                                                                                                          2.4

eurozone                                                                                                          0.8

   russia                                                                                                         0.6

   brazil                                                                                                         0.1

   japan                                                                                                          0.1

source: iwf

54 |   www.leoni.com




                       business by sector

                       leoni’s major customer industries mostly recorded a favourable performance during the year under report
                       despite the unstable economy as a whole. this was true of the global car industry, in particular. according to
                       the german association of the automotive industry (vda), car sales increased in almost all major markets.
                       new vehicle registrations rose especially strongly in china (up 13 percent) and the new eu countries (up
                       14 percent). perceptible growth was also recorded by the united states at 6 percent, western europe at
                       5 percent and japan at 3 percent while the indian market posted a slight increase (1 percent). by contrast,
                       sales declined significantly by 7 percent in brazil and by 10 percent in russia.
                          car production also rose in the past year – the ihs automotive market research institute estimates an
                       increase of around 3 percent worldwide to 87 million or so cars and light commercial vehicles. in 2014, the
                       number of vehicles produced rose year on year in asia, the americas and the emea (europe, middle east
                       and africa) region.

                       production of cars and light commercial vehicles (lcvs) by regions                 2013           2014e     million units

                                            asia                                                                                           43.0
                                                                                                                                           44.4

                                          emea                                                                                             21.0
                                                                                                                                           21.9

                                      americas                                                                                             20.7
                                                                                                                                           20.9

                       source: ihs automotive



                       production of cars and light commercial vehicles (lcvs) by regions			                                              2014e




                                 americas       24.0 %



                                                                                                                  asia    50.9 %



                                 emea   25.1 %




                       source: ihs automotive


                       heavy commercial vehicles production by regions                                    2013           2014e     million units

                                            asia                                                                                           2.03
                                                                                                                                           2.04

                                         europe                                                                                            0.52
                                                                                                                                           0.50

                                       americas                                                                                            0.66
                                                                                                                                           0.67

                       source: ihs automotive

                                                                                                                     | group management report             |   55

                                                                                                                      business and underlying conditions




by contrast, ihs automotive estimates that the output of heavy commercial vehicles in 2014 was at the pre-
vious year’s level. slightly fewer trucks and other heavy commercial vehicles were produced in europe, south
america and – surprisingly – china, whereas output in the rest of asia and particularly in north america rose.
  the german electrical engineering and electronics industry increased its output by 2.5 percent in 2014,
according to the german electrical and electronic manufacturers’ association (zvei). its sales increased by
3.0 percent and order receipts were up by 0.6 percent.
  the mechanical engineering sector expanded significantly in the past year. the german engineering
federation (vdma) says that the sector’s sales were up by 5 percent worldwide. the german mechanical en-
gineering companies generated sales growth of about 3 percent and raised their output by roughly 1 percent,
which means that the previous record levels dating from 2008 were exceeded.
  the global market for information technology and telecommunications also grew considerably in 2014,
namely by about 4 percent, according to the german association for information technology, telecom-
munications and new media (bitkom). this involved stronger growth in the telecommunications segment
than in information technology products and services. the chinese market grew especially rapidly. in the
united states there was a significant gain and in the eu there was just a moderate one. according to bitkom,
information technology, telecommunications and consumer electronics sales in germany rose by 1.6 percent.
there were considerable differences in performance between segments: while business involving it hard-
ware and software grew by almost 6 percent in each case, sales of consumer electronics, telecommunication
services and telecommunication devices declined slightly.
  the german medical technology industry generated a 1.6 percent sales increase in 2014, the spectaris
industry association estimates. this puts sales in germany up by 1.3 percent and international business up by
1.8 percent.



other factors

alongside the macroeconomic and sector-specific conditions, there are a number of other factors that play a
key role with respect to leoni’s business performance:


the prices of commodities, especially of copper, exert an appreciable influence on our sales. we largely pass
on the fluctuations in the copper price to our customers through contractual agreements, albeit usually with
a time lag. a change in the price of copper will therefore normally result initially in a corresponding effect on     procurement
                                                                                                                      ›› page 83
leoni’s sales without notable impact on earnings. on the reporting dates there may – depending on the price
of copper – be write-downs on inventory or provisions to cover contingent losses on partial quantities of in-
ventory. the same applies to the raw material of silver, which is used primarily in the refining of wire products.
  group-wide, the trend in energy prices does not have any major impact on leoni.
  by contrast, personnel costs are a major influencing factor in the countries in which we produce. they
are considered in our decisions on choices of location, as are reliable legal and political conditions as well as
favourable transport options.

56 |   www.leoni.com




                                               we keep a very close eye on the political situation situation in the countries of importance to us; countries
                                               where we produce and sell. in 2014, we were concerned by the ukraine crisis, in particular. our production
                                               facility lies in the west of the country and was not directly affected by the conflict. however, indirect costs
                 risk and opportunity report   resulted from increased strategic accumulation of inventory and the training of new employees. the risk and
                 ›› page 98
                                               opportunity report contains further information.
                                                 alongside the respective national legislation of the countries where we are present, the legal factors that
                                               affect leoni also include international laws. the stricter co2 emission limits, for example, exert indirect influ-
                                               ence. they increase demand from the automotive industry for cables, cable harnesses and wiring systems that
                                               are particularly lightweight or lend themselves to alternative drive technologies. this results in the increasing
                                               use of sensors and control units, which in turn leads to an additional need for wiring.
                                                 thanks to appropriate hedging transactions, exchange-rate fluctuation does not normally have any major
                                               impact on leoni’s performance. if exchange-rate parities change very substantially, however, they might
                 notes                         nevertheless have a certain effect on results.
                 ›› page 138




                                               leading operational indicators

                                               leoni monitors various leading operational indicators to be able to identify the multifaceted external factors
                                               for our business at an early stage and to take this into account in our corporate governance. key indications
                 macroeconomic trend and       of future business prospects are gained from analysis of suitable market, economic and sector data. to assess
                 business by sector
                 ›› page 53                    the situation in the worldwide motor vehicle industry we refer, for example, to global and regional economic
                                               forecasts as well as the sales and output figures projected by the sector associations. we obtain supplementa-
                                               ry information from the annual and quarterly forecasts of our customers. other significant leading indicators
                 reports by division/          involve the order receipts in our business divisions, which point to the likely degree of capacity utilisation,
                 segment report
                 ›› page 57                    as well as the trend in the prices for important commodities, especially for copper, which provides findings
                 procurement                   concerning the direction of significant cost items.
                 ›› page 83

                                                                                                                                                 | group management report               |   57

                                                                                                                                                  reports by division / segment report




reports by division / segment report

wiring systems division

business model and organisational structure
the wiring systems division is europe’s largest and one of the world’s leading providers of complete wiring
systems as well as customised cable harnesses for the motor vehicle industry. as before, its products and
services in 2014 ranged from the development and production of sophisticated cable harnesses through to
integrated wiring systems, high-voltage wiring systems for hybrid and electric vehicles, power distribution
components and special connectors. as systems providers, we cover the entire spectrum from design through
to series production as well as complementary services.

products and services wiring systems




                                                                                                                       from the design concept
                                                                                                                       to the assembly/supply
                                                       wiring systems

                      preformed cable harnesses   high voltage cable harnesses   standard cable harnesses

         power distribution components               plastic components                  extrusion-coated connectors




our principal customers include
■■   carmakers,
■■   automotive suppliers,
■■   commercial vehicle manufacturers,
■■   the agricultural and special vehicles industry,
■■   makers of power sports vehicles.


the automotive industry is the most significant customer group. we supply most of the manufacturers
and vehicle categories worldwide from the low-cost, entry-level model to the whole gamut of compact and
mid-range cars and up to vehicles in the premium and luxury segments. in 2014, we were able to expand our                                         division strategy and
                                                                                                                                                  strategic projects
customer base further.                                                                                                                            ›› page 59

     our components, cable harnesses and wiring systems are developed in tandem with a new vehicle in close
collaboration with the customer. we therefore maintain very close, trusting relationships with our custom-
ers. the factors forming the basis for this are our major know-how in the development, manufacture and
distribution of components and wiring systems as well as our high quality and reliability.

58 |   www.leoni.com




                                         the organisational structure of the wiring systems division focuses on supporting the increasing globali-
                                         sation and the opening up of new areas of business. to this end, we have subdivided the activities in five
                                         business groups (bgs) with immediate responsibility for earnings: the bgs german customers, asian custom-
                                         ers and european customers represent the customers based in the respective regions. business group us
                                         customers & commercial vehicles additionally covers our business with the worldwide commercial vehicle
                                         industry, while bg systems & components covers our activity involving the international automotive supply
                                         industry as well as connector technology and electromobility. supporting this structure are the corporate
                                         functions technical competence center, human resources competence center and admin competence
                                         center, which facilitate bg-overarching standardisation and optimisation of our global network, worldwide
                                         transfer of know-how and gearing to best-practice solutions.

                 organisation of the wiring systems division		                                                                              as of december 2014



                                                                                        business group
                                        business group          business group                                  business group            business group
                                                                                         us customers
                                       german customers       european customers                                asian customers       systems & components
                                                                                     & commercial vehicles

                  wiring systems


                                           technical            human resources              admin                   region                  region
                                        competence center      competence center        competence center             asia                  americas




                                         the fact that we are sharply focused on our customers ensures that each individual customer or any customer
                                         group has one and the same contact worldwide. in sales the principal customers are looked after via a key
                                         account management structure. locally, furthermore, ‘residents’ will frequently deal with special concerns of
                                         the customer locations. in addition, there are sales departments in germany and france as well as sales and
                                         development offices in china, india, korea and the united states.
                                            the worldwide production network of the wiring systems division consists of 35 production facilities in 17
                                         countries, above all in china, mexico, north africa and eastern europe. the locations are chosen strictly on the
                                         basis of cost benefit and logistical requirements, and are situated as near to our customers as possible. in 2014,
                 capital expenditure     we expanded our production network especially in china, romania and serbia.
                 ›› page 79


                                         competitive situation and advantages
                                         in europe we still occupy the leading position in cable harnesses and wiring systems. the wiring systems
                                         division ranks 4th worldwide, according to calculations by the ‘automotive wiring harness market’. the most
                                         significant competitors are delphi, sumitomo and yazaki.
                                            alongside its international competitive position, the lasting success of the wiring systems division is
                                         based on its great power of innovation and a high real net output ratio, comprehensive logistics and systems
                                         expertise as well as development centres spread worldwide with close proximity to the customer. another

                                                                                                                    | group management report               |   59

                                                                                                                     reports by division / segment report




particular strength involves our global production network with standardised processes as well as the fact
that a high proportion of our production is at locations with favourable wage costs. our very broad interna-
tional positioning as well as the large number of vehicle manufacturers and brands supplied not only diminish
the exposure to regional market cycles, but also enable us to take advantage of global growth opportunities.


division strategy and strategic projects
the strategy of the wiring systems division is guided by the group strategy with the four levers of glo-             division strategy
                                                                                                                     ›› page 50
balisation, innovation, systems business and efficiency. to achieve the medium-term target of a balanced
distribution of group sales over the triad markets (asia, americas, europe), the commitment in asia and the
americas is being continuously expanded. in addition, we strive to widen our systems expertise and to record
considerable growth in the area of commercial vehicle manufacturers alongside the most important customer
group, the car industry. as part of the megatrends we see potential in the areas of mobility, globalisation and
environmental awareness & shortage of resources.
  in 2014, we made good progress in implementing our strategy. the percentage of our sales in the asia/
pacific region grew from 15.9 to 17.3 percent and that in the americas from 10.9 to 11.8 percent. the basis was
various strategic projects that were tackled or completed during the year under report.


expansion of activities in china through the construction of a plant in tieling in northern china we have
further strengthened our position in this important automotive market. the new facility – our fifth in the
country – will start delivering wiring systems to a german premium carmaker in china from the end of 2015.
we were also able to improve our position in the local automotive industry: through the strategically impor-
tant first order from a chinese carmaker comprising the supply of transmission wiring, our customer base in
the world’s largest automotive market has been expanded to include a major buyer.


capacity expansion in the americas in mexico we expanded our capacity for a new large-scale project with
a german premium manufacturer, with mass production starting in mid-2014. it involves wiring systems for
a vehicle model that was simultaneously launched in asia and the americas and is supplied by us in both
regions. with the simultaneous start of production on two continents we have completed another important
step towards globalisation. in 2015, our production network will be enlarged to include a first wiring systems
facility in paraguay. the foundations for this facility were laid at the end of 2014.


improved position in the commercial vehicle market the first order from a swedish company enabled us
to expand our customer base in the commercial vehicle segment. this means that all major european truck
manufacturers are now customers of leoni. the project includes cable harnesses for several truck engine
platforms that are delivered to facilities in europe and brazil; it strengthens our position in south america and
has consolidated our leading position in engine wiring.

60 |   www.leoni.com




                       performance in 2014


                       key figures wiring systems

                                                                                                                                     2014                      2013                     change

                       external sales                                                                  € million                  2,399.6                    2,321.0                     + 3.4 %

                       ebit                                                                            € million                    104.6                      116.1                     (9.9) %

                       adjusted ebit 1                                                                 € million                    112.6                      140.3                    (19.7) %

                       ebit margin                                                                            %                        4.4                        5.0                         —

                       capital expenditure 2                                                           € million                    139.2                      100.2                    + 38.9 %

                       employees (as at 31 december)                                                    number                     59,056                    53,163                     + 11.1 %
                       1
                         earnings adjusted for the impact of revaluation as part of allocating the prices of the major acquisitions, restructuring, impairment of non-current assets,
                         capital gains on the disposal of businesses and income from business combinations including related derivatives
                       2
                         capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment as well as intangible assets



                       the wiring systems division’s external sales rose by about 3 percent to € 2,399.6 million in 2014. in this, we
                       were supported by a favourable, global motor vehicle business. thanks to our broad customer base, business
                       volume was spread across all vehicle categories. during the year under report sales of wiring systems and
                       cable harnesses for export-heavyweight german premium carmakers showed an uptrend as they benefited
                       from strong demand for cars in asia and the americas. business with other european carmakers decreased
                       slightly on account of the persistently difficult economic situation in some southern european countries.
                           in addition, we generated substantial sales with commercial manufacturers that operate internationally,
                       which we supply mainly with engine cable harnesses. sales to the motor vehicle supply industry and of com-
                       ponents and solutions for vehicles with electric or hybrid power also performed well.
                           negative currency effects on sales amounting to € 12.8 million, especially due to the year-on-year decline in
                       the rouble and the brazilian real, were marginally offset by positive effects of € 14.2 million, mainly due to the
                       appreciation of the british pound sterling and the korean won.

                       wiring systems external sales 			                                                                                                                                  € million


                           2010                                                                                                                                                            1,634.2

                           2011                                                                                                                                                            2,023.8

                           2012                                                                                                                                                            2,206.4

                           2013                                                                                                                                                            2,321.0

                           2014                                                                                                                                                            2,399.6

                                                                                                                                       | group management report               |   61

                                                                                                                                        reports by division / segment report




wiring systems breakdown of sales			                                                                                           2014


         asian customers (local)    1.5 %


         systems & components      8.6 %
                                                                                             german customers     35.6 %
         european customers
         (excl. german customers)     24.6 %



                                                                             us customers & commercial vehicles   29.7 %




wiring systems external sales by quarter                                                   2013            2014            € million

   1st quarter                                                                                                                567.8
                                                                                                                              597.7

  2nd quarter                                                                                                                 607.6
                                                                                                                              597.8

  3rd quarter                                                                                                                 552.2
                                                                                                                              576.4

  4th quarter                                                                                                                 593.4
                                                                                                                              627.7




large number of product start-ups              as planned, we started production for a large number of new and
follow-on orders during the year under report. although the projects already made initial sales contributions,
they usually unfold their full impact on sales and, above, all, earnings in the years after the start-up phase.
among other things, 2014 saw the start of production of wiring systems and cable harnesses for several
mainstream and sports car models of various carmakers based in germany and other european countries. in
addition, the production start-up of wiring systems for the premium car of a german manufacturer whose
market launch took place simultaneously in the americas and asia was of particular importance. deliveries are                           division strategy and
                                                                                                                                        strategic projects
coming from leoni facilities in china and mexico. some ramp-ups also took place in the e-mobility segment.                              ›› page 59

they related to cable harnesses and charging cables for hybrid or electric versions of mostly german main-
stream, premium and sports cars. on top of this, there were several product start-ups for the international
supply industry and for european and us commercial vehicle producers.


earnings: ebit weighed down by unscheduled start-up costs               the ramp-ups of production were mostly
as projected and resulted in the usual, expected start-up costs. however, on top of this came unplanned
exceptional expenses in connection with the large-scale project with a simultaneous production start in asia
and the americas. these expenses were incurred at a facility in mexico, which we expanded and changed over
to the complex production and logistical processes involved in customised wiring systems. this resulted in
an unexpectedly large requirement for staff, high reject rates as well as additional airfreight charges to meet
our delivery commitments during the summer months. the countermeasures that were immediately applied
at this facility showed an effect from september onwards and the fourth quarter was once again on-budget.
the switch to the new euro 6 standard in the commercial vehicle industry also still had unexpected after-ef-
fects because of the increased complexity of the corresponding engines, which weighed on earnings in 2014.
the performance in the fourth quarter was also weighed down by the collapse in the russian rouble and the
weaker russian business. all told, earnings before interest and taxes in 2014 declined by around 10 percent
year on year to € 104.6 million.

62 |   www.leoni.com




                                         wiring systems ebit			                                                                                    € million


                                                2010                                                                                                 74.3

                                                2011                                                                                                 146.2

                                                2012                                                                                                 136.41

                                                2013                                                                                                 116.1

                                                2014                                                                                                 104.6

                                         1
                                             adjustment due to amendment to ias 19




                                         wide variety of new orders consolidate the order book    in 2014, the wiring systems division received an
                                         array of new and follow-on orders, which will consolidate the planned growth in the coming years. several
                                         orders for various car models and classes were placed by the automotive industry, especially by german
                 division strategy and   and other european carmakers. in addition, there was a first order from a chinese producer. we also secured
                 strategic projects
                 ›› page 59              a large number of projects from the international commercial vehicle and supply industries. for instance,
                                         alongside the aforementioned first order from sweden, several european commercial vehicle manufacturers
                                         ordered wiring systems for harvesting machines as well as especially robust and reliable pre-formed cable
                                         harnesses. new commercial vehicle orders were also received from the americas and asia. various us manu-
                                         facturers ordered engine cable harnesses for several commercial vehicle models, in particular, a european-chi-
                                         nese joint venture placed an order for transmission cable harnesses for heavy goods vehicles, and a korean
                                         construction machinery producer one for engine cable harnesses and wiring systems for new special purpose
                                         vehicles. at the turn of the year we had a constant and high order volume of around € 12 billion for the next
                                         five years. the precise amount and timing of the shipments will depend on what our customers actually call
                                         forward.

                                                                                                                                               | group management report               |   63

                                                                                                                                                reports by division / segment report




wire & cable solutions division

business model and organisational structure
the wire & cable solutions division’s range of products and services encompasses wires, strands and optical
fibers, standardised cables, special cables and completely assembled systems as well as related services for
a wide variety of industries, especially so in the automotive, capital goods, medical technology, telecommu-
nications, infrastructure as well as household and electrical appliance sectors. leoni in this respect focuses
on technologically sophisticated products as well as customer-specific applications for niche markets. at
the same time we continue to develop our products and services for the increasingly important emerging
countries in line with the particular demands of the local markets. solutions for the global trends of mobility,
population growth and demographic change, urbanisation, globalisation, environmental awareness and
shortage of resources as well as industrialisation and automation are of mounting importance. our range of
products and services did not materially change in the year under report.

products and services wire & cable solutions



                                                  services




                                                                                                                   development / engineering
                                               cable systems

                                               cable harnesses

                     copper cables             hybrid cables                optical cables

                        wires and strands                               optical fibers



the organisational structure of the wire & cable solutions division was further developed in 2014 with a
view to stepping up the planned globalisation, optimising structures and increasing efficiency. our activities
remain, on principle, subdivided into five business groups (bgs): automotive cables, industry & healthcare,
communication & infrastructure, electrical appliance assemblies as well as conductors & copper solutions.
this is in line with the division’s five core markets. the operations of the business groups are structured into
a total of 15 business units. these business units function flexibly; they are in worldwide charge of prod-
ucts, plants, markets as well as customers and are responsible for profitability. to step up globalisation we
established two additional organisational units, the asia and americas regions, which coordinate and expand
our local activities. these market-oriented units are supplemented by two new cross-section segments for
commercial and technical/operational functions (cfo and coo organisation).

organisation of the wire & cable solutions division		                                                                                                  as of december 2014




                                               communication                                      conductors &                                   electrical appliance
                       automotive cables                             industry & healthcare
                                               & infrastructure                                 copper solutions                                     assemblies

  wire & cable
   solutions

                              admin
                                                  technical                                           region                                            region
                          human resources
                                               competence center                                       asia                                            americas
                         competence center

64 |   www.leoni.com




                                         our customer base comprises virtually all wiring system manufacturers and numerous other automotive
                                         suppliers with global operations as well as the key providers in other sectors that we supply in more than 90
                                         countries. we maintain close relationships with our customers for many years. particularly our sales and devel-
                                         opment departments are in constant contact with customers. in many projects leoni is closely involved as a
                                         provider of development work or systems and solutions as early as the design and planning phase.
                                           the most important sale region is europe, followed by asia and north america. our international sales
                                         network is continually being enlarged to further raise our market penetration in the developed economic
                                         regions and to broaden our footprint in such focal regions as the usa, china and india. the key customers in
                                         the individual business groups are looked after by key account managers with sector knowledge.
                                           our up-to-date production facilities are located in the most significant economic regions around the
                                         world: in western and eastern europe, north america as well as asia. in 2014, we expanded our capacity
                 division strategy and   further, especially in the growth markets of asia and the americas. the 47 facilities in 21 countries are in
                 strategic projects
                 ›› page 64              strategically favourable locations in the proximity of customers. our production networks and supply chains
                                         are continually optimised to make the best possible use of available capacity and to reduce the complexity of
                                         structures.


                                         competitive situation and advantages
                                         the wire & cable solutions division, which is the third-largest cable business in europe, is the technology and
                                         market leader in many of its target areas. in some product segments, such as automotive cables for the car
                                         industry and cable systems for robotic engineering, we are global market leaders. we also command leading
                                         positions in the market for cables for particular industrial applications; for example in mechanical engineering,
                                         measurement and control technology as well as medical technology.
                                           our crucial competitive advantages include a vertically strongly integrated value chain, core skills de-
                                         veloped over decades such as a broad understanding of raw materials and know-how concerning input
                                         materials, engineering and applications as well as command of technologically sophisticated manufacturing
                                         processes across all the links in the value chain. our increasing systems expertise and growing international
                                         presence in selected areas also enhance our opportunities in the market.


                                         division strategy and strategic projects
                 group strategy          the wire & cable solutions division is applying the group strategy in the context of its segment strategy with
                 ›› page 50
                                         its four levers of globalisation, innovation, systems business and efficiency. in the current expansion phase
                                         of the leoni group we aim, in particular, to expand business in promising markets, to widen the margin and
                                         to tap synergies within the organisation. to this end, sales are due to be increased particularly in the growth
                                         regions of asia and the americas and in promising sectors: alongside the automotive industry this includes
                                         railway engineering, medical technology and robotics. this goes hand in hand with the gradual expansion of
                                         our position as a system and service provider.

                                                                                                                    | group management report               |   65

                                                                                                                     reports by division / segment report




the focus of strategic activities in 2014 was once again on globalisation, which was stepped up further as
planned. business volume rose sharply in asia, in particular. raising efficiency constituted another focus.


during the year under report the projects we launched or implemented included the following:


additional automotive cable capacity in asia and the americas to take advantage of the still good growth
prospects of the automotive industry in asia and north america we have expanded our existing production
capacity for standard and special automotive cables, particularly in china and in mexico. moreover, prepara-
tions were made for the construction of new plants in both regions.                                                   capital expenditure
                                                                                                                      ›› page 79


expansion of the facility in india in the first indian cable plant of the wcs division, opened in 2013, capacity     business performance and
                                                                                                                     future direction
for instrumentation cables, which are used in the petrochemical industry, was expanded.                              ›› page 114



new special cables plant in slovakia two extrusion lines have gone into operation at the new wcs facility in
ilava. the new cable plant will produce primarily engine, sensor and data cables starting in 2015.


new special cables plant in china business group industry & healthcare commissioned a cable plant in
changzhou for the production of special cables for various industrial markets. customers include, for example,
companies from the automation and drive system sectors.


business-process harmonisation and operational excellence in the division-wide project to harmonise
business processes, launched three years ago, a key milestone was reached through the first-time intro-
duction and commissioning of the new erp system at a key facility in germany. over the next few years the
new system will be gradually rolled out at further facilities. the operational excellence initiative to improve
production processes was extended to additional facilities, as planned, and established within the new coo
organisation.


‘wcs on excellence’ we launched the ‘wcs on excellence’ performance programme in order to enhance the
entire division’s efficiency in light of the medium-term corporate targets. it covers a large number of optimisa-
tion measures in the areas of procurement, technology, production and sales.

66 |   www.leoni.com




                       performance in 2014


                       key figures wire & cable solutions

                                                                                                                                     2014                      2013                     change

                       external sales                                                                  € million                  1,703.8                    1,596.9                      + 6.7

                       ebit                                                                            € million                      78.1                      47.1                     + 65.6

                       adjusted ebit 1                                                                 € million                      80.3                      58.5                     + 37.2

                       ebit margin                                                                            %                        4.6                        3.0                       —

                       capital expenditure 2                                                           € million                      68.0                      57.1                     + 19.0

                       employees (as at 31 december)                                                    number                      8,679                      8,201                      + 5.8
                       1
                         earnings adjusted for the impact of revaluation as part of allocating the prices of the major acquisitions, restructuring, impairment of non-current assets,
                         capital gains on the disposal of businesses and income from business combinations including related derivatives
                       2
                         capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment as well as intangible assets



                       sales rise by 7 percent to € 1.7 billion thanks to the persistently very strong demand from the automotive
                       industry and the recovery in most of our industrial customer sectors, the external sales of the wire & cable
                       solutions division in 2014 rose by almost 7 percent year on year to € 1,703.8 million. sales generated in asia/
                       pacific rose by 23 percent to € 362.1 million while business volume in the americas was up by about 5 percent
                       to € 338.0 million. in the emea region we generated a gain of 2 percent to € 1,003.7 million.
                           unlike in the previous year, currency effects did not play any major role. a positive sales effect of € 1.9 milli-
                       on resulted essentially from the stronger swiss franc.
                           sales in business group automotive cables posted a particularly pronounced increase of around 10 percent
                       due to sustained heavy demand for our standard automotive and special cables, especially so in asia and the
                       americas, but also in europe. business volume in the industrial businesses rose by around 5 percent in total.
                       business group industry & healthcare recorded growth, in particular, among other things thanks to strong
                       demand from the medical technology and robotics industries. within this bg only the fiber optics business
                       unit showed muted growth. we recorded slight growth in business group communication & infrastructure.
                       the sales performance in this business group was mixed: while demand for our products from the solar
                       industry in china rose sharply, business with data cables and cables for the petrochemical industry remained
                       weak. business group electrical appliance assemblies was able to keep its sales roughly at the previous year’s
                       level thanks to stable demand from the international household and electrical appliance industry. unit sales
                       in business group conductors & copper solutions were roughly at the previous year’s level, but sales declined
                       slightly on account of the lower copper price.

                                                                                                                | group management report               |   67

                                                                                                                 reports by division / segment report




wire & cable solutions external sales 			                                                           € million


   2010                                                                                              1,321.5

   2011                                                                                              1,677.7

   2012                                                                                              1,602.6

   2013                                                                                              1,596.9

   2014                                                                                              1,703.8




wire & cable solutions external sales by quarter                    2013            2014            € million

   1st quarter                                                                                         391.2
                                                                                                       422.6

   2nd quarter                                                                                         403.4
                                                                                                       421.6

   3rd quarter                                                                                         405.8
                                                                                                       437.3

   4th quarter                                                                                         396.5
                                                                                                       422.3




percentage share of wire & cable solutions division sales by business group			                          2014


          electrical appliance assemblies   7.0 %


          conductors & copper solutions     7.9 %


          industry & healthcare   20.4 %                              automotive cables    43.2 %




                                                          communication & infrastructure   21.5 %

68 |   www.leoni.com




                                            performance of the business groups

                          business group
                       automotive cables     € million   633.1   671.6   735.2   cables for
                                                  800                             wiring systems

                                                                                  communications / telematics
                                                  600                             drive and engine systems

                                                                                  exhaust systems
                                                  400
                                                                                  hybrid and fuel cell vehicles

                                                  200                             safety and assist systems



                                                    0
                                                         2012    2013    2014




                         business group
                   industry & healthcare     € million   315.7   311.6   347.2   cables and cable systems for
                                                  800                             machinery and plant engineering

                                                                                  automation and drive technology
                                                  600                             measurement and control technology

                                                                                  robotics
                                                  400
                                                                                  specialist vehicles

                                                  200                             aerospace technology

                                                                                  telecommunications

                                                    0                             medical devices
                                                         2012    2013    2014




                       business group
         communication & infrastructure      € million   376.8   353.0   366.8   cables and cable systems for
                                                  800                             civil and structural engineering

                                                                                    as well as transport infrastructure
                                                  600
                                                                                    (safety and installation cables as well as installation systems)
                                                                                  large plant and refineries
                                                  400
                                                                                    (project-specific instrumentation and power cables)
                                                  200                             railway engineering and shipbuilding



                                                    0
                                                         2012    2013    2014




                           business group
          electrical appliance assemblies    € million   123.8   121.0   119.7   cable systems for
                                                  800                             small appliances
                                                                                  irons
                                                  600                             vacuum cleaners

                                                                                  consumer electronics
                                                  400
                                                                                  washing machines

                                                  200                             refrigerators

                                                                                  tools

                                                    0                             lighting industry
                                                         2012    2013    2014




                        business group
          conductors & copper solutions      € million   153.2   139.7   134.9   wires and strands for
                                                  800                             special cable industry

                                                                                  heating system manufacturers
                                                  600                             solar and wind power industry


                                                  400

                                                  200

                                                    0
                                                         2012    2013    2014

                                                                                                                          | group management report               |   69

                                                                                                                           reports by division / segment report




sharp rise in earnings earnings before interest and taxes of the wcs division in 2014 rose by around 65
percent year on year to € 78.1 million despite missing contributions to profit from the unexpectedly weak
business with the petrochemical industry. alongside the sales growth, a favourable effect resulted from the
impact of the restructuring measures implemented in 2013, which had weighed on the previous year’s result
to a considerable extent. moreover, the 2013 ebit figure included a negative effect from changes in the copper
price whereas the effect during the period under report was slightly positive.


wire & cable solutions ebit			                                                                              € million


   2010                                                                                                            56.3

   2011                                                                                                            90.9

   2012                                                                                                           101.3

   2013                                                                                                            47.1

   2014                                                                                                            78.1




extensive new orders the wire & cable solutions division obtained new orders worth € 1,722.0 million in
2014. order receipts thus exceeded both the like-for-like 2013 figure of € 1,642.5 million and the business
volume of the year under report. business group automotive cables, in particular, received various large new
and follow-on orders for our facilities worldwide, which in many cases extend over several years. they covered
standard cables and high-quality, complex data and sensor cables for vehicles. business group industry &
healthcare received major orders from the robotics and medical technology industries: among others, a major
german carmaker ordered several thousand dresspacks including installation and commissioning for robots to
manufacture cars at two facilities in germany. moreover, we secured a first order from a major medical device
producer, as a result of which our customer base was broadened. business group communication & infra-
structure was commissioned by indian producer reliance to supply the cabling for the third expansion stage
of the world’s biggest oil and gas refinery plant in the state of gujarat. we already make half of the high-qual-
ity special cables that this requires locally at our new plant in india. furthermore, with the order by a major
german insurance company to wire a large data centre, we have once again demonstrated our expertise in the
fast-growing market for data centres. business group electrical appliance assemblies received various, mostly
multi-year orders for cable harnesses and power cords from major manufacturers of household and electrical
appliances with international operations.

70 |   www.leoni.com




                       business report


                       overview of leoni’s performance / general statement
                       on the economic situation and comparison with the forecast

                       group key figures

                                                                                                                                     2014                      2013                     change

                       consolidated sales                                                              € million                  4,103.4                    3,917.9                     + 4.7 %

                       ebit                                                                            € million                    182.5                      163.1                    + 11.9 %

                       adjusted ebit    1                                                              € million                    192.7                      198.7                     (3.0) %

                       ebit margin                                                                            %                        4.4                        4.2                        —

                       consolidated net income                                                         € million                    115.1                      105.9                     + 8.7 %

                       free cash flow 2                                                                € million                    (37.9)                      36.7                (203.0) %

                       return on capital employed                                                             %                       13.7                      13.4                         —
                       capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment
                       as well as intangible assets                                                    € million                    215.8                      168.4                    + 28.1 %

                       employees (as at 31 december)                                                    number                     67,988                    61,591                     + 10.4 %
                       1
                         earnings adjusted for the impact of revaluation as part of allocating the prices of the major acquisitions, restructuring, impairment of non-current assets,
                         capital gains on the disposal of businesses and income from business combinations including related derivatives
                       2
                         free cash flow before acquisitions and divestments




                       in the past financial year, leoni benefited from sustained good demand from the international automotive
                       industry and the recovery in other major industrial businesses. consolidated sales in 2014 rose by almost
                       5 percent year on year to a new high of € 4.1 billion. the amount of business increased in both divisions: the
                       wiring systems division grew by more than 3 percent to € 2.4 billion and the wire & cable solutions division
                       by almost 7 percent to € 1.7 billion. the sales performance was thus fully in line with the forecast issued at the
                       beginning of the year.
                           consolidated ebit (earnings before interest and taxes) was up by around 12 percent to € 182.5 million
                       during the period under report. the wire & cable solutions division contributed € 78.1 million to this amount
                       and thus almost reached the figure of € 80 million or more it announced in early 2014, with lower profit
                       contributions from the surprisingly weak business with the petrochemical industry. ebit of the wiring systems
                       division came to € 104.6 million and fell well short of the originally projected figure of € 120 million or so as
                       high unplanned exceptional expenses on new start-ups had to be absorbed. for this reason, the group’s ebit
                       target was adjusted from more than € 200 million to more than € 180 million in october. we reached this
                       figure even though additional charges were incurred in the fourth quarter on account of the collapse of the
                       rouble and the economic slump in russia.
                           after taxes, leoni generated consolidated net income of € 115.1 million, around 9 percent more than in
                       the previous year. in line with our policy of paying out around one-third of consolidated net income to share-
                       holders, we will propose at the annual general meeting to pay out a dividend of € 1.20 per share (previous
                       year: € 1.00).

                                                                                                                        | group management report   |   71

                                                                                                                         business report




the leoni group’s financial and asset situation in 2014 remained solid even though not all of the projected
financial ratios were achieved. due to the large number of new customer projects and preparation for future
growth, capital expenditure was up by around 28 percent to € 215.8 million in 2014, thus exceeding the
planned amount of about € 200 million. as a result of higher-than-expected capital expenditure, lower
ebit and the need for measures to guard against increasing geopolitical risks, free cash flow at negative
€ 37.9 million fell short of the projected figure of around € 30 million. net financial liabilities of
€ 316.2 million, the equity ratio of 34.4 percent and the slight improvement in roce to 13.7 percent corre-              cost of capital and roce
                                                                                                                         ›› page 76
sponded to the adjusted forecast issued in october. all in all, leoni ag’s management board rates the group’s
financial position and performance as good at the time this group management report was prepared.



group sales and earnings

consolidated sales rise to € 4.1 billion
leoni ag’s consolidated sales rose by around 5 percent or € 185.5 million compared with 2013 to
€ 4,103.4 million in the past financial year and thus reached a new record level. this improvement is based on
the sustained good worldwide state of the automotive business and the gradual recovery of the other indus-
trial customer industries in europe that are of importance to us. leoni generated this increase from its own
resources; the scope of consolidation changed only slightly. the decline in the average copper price compared
with the previous year reduced consolidated sales by € 82.9 million; adjusted for changes in the price of cop-
per, therefore, an increase of € 268.4 million was recorded. changes in exchange rates had a positive effect of
€ 3.3 million. details of exchange gains or losses can be found in the reports by division/ segment report.              reports by division/
                                                                                                                         segment report
  broken down by regions the following picture emerges: sales growth was particularly strong in asia/pacific,            ›› page 57

where business increased by some 17 percent to € 776.5 million. in the americas we recorded a gain of just
over 8 percent to € 621.4 million. sales in the emea (europe, middle east and africa) group of countries rose
slightly by around 1 percent to € 2,705.5 million, with the two most important markets in this region in vol-
ume terms – germany and eastern europe – growing by around 2 percent to € 1,108.3 million and by almost
8 percent to € 678.1 million, respectively. the proportion of sales generated in asia/pacific and the americas
thus increased as planned, to 18.9 percent and 15.1 percent, respectively, while that of emea declined slightly
to 65.9 percent.

consolidated sales 			                                                                                      € million


   2010                                                                                                      2,955.7

   2011                                                                                                      3,701.5

   2012                                                                                                      3,809.0

   2013                                                                                                      3,917.9

   2014                                                                                                      4,103.4

72 |   www.leoni.com




                                         consolidated sales by quarter                                                       2013             2014             € million

                                            1st quarter                                                                                                           959.0
                                                                                                                                                                1,020.2

                                            2nd quarter                                                                                                         1,011.0
                                                                                                                                                                1,019.4

                                            3rd quarter                                                                                                           957.9
                                                                                                                                                                1,013.8

                                            4th quarter                                                                                                           990.0
                                                                                                                                                                1,050.0




                                         consolidated sales by division 			                                                                                        2014




                                                  wire & cable solutions    41.5 %                                                  wiring systems    58.5 %




                                         consolidated sales by region 			                                                                                          2014


                                                  asia/pacific     18.9 %


                                                                                                                                        emea total    65.9 %
                                                  americas       15.1 %
                                                                                                                                         germany   27.0 %

                                                                                                                                remaining europe      21.3 %

                                                                                                                                    eastern europe    16.5 %

                                                                                                                                             africa    0.8 %

                                                                                                                                       rest of emea    0.3 %




                                         ebit growth held back by exceptional items
                                         in 2014, the cost of sales of the leoni group rose by 5 percent to € 3,401.2 million, thus slightly outpacing
                                         business volume growth. this was due to unplanned, exceptional items related to the new product start-ups
                 reports by division /   in the wiring systems division, which led to substantial expenses in the summer months. gross profit on sales
                 segment report
                 ›› page 57              improved by just under 4 percent to € 702.3 million, equating to a gross margin of 17.1 percent (previous year:
                                         17.3 percent).
                                           selling expenses increased by about 9 percent to € 213.8 million. here, too, exceptional expenses on the
                                         new product start-ups – mainly high airfreight costs – exerted an impact. general administrative costs were
                                         up by around 3 percent to € 197.5 million due to the usual collective bargaining wage increases. research and
                                         development costs also rose by 3 percent to € 109.3 million, primarily due to preparation for new projects in
                                         the wiring systems division.

                                                                                                                         | group management report   |   73

                                                                                                                          business report




other operating income, which grew from € 10.4 million to € 12.6 million, included government grants. other
operating expenses declined from € 31.3 million to € 12.0 million as restructuring expenses fell to € 1.8 million.
in 2013, they amounted to € 21.5 million as a result of extensive restructuring activities. an opposing effect
resulted from heavy foreign exchange losses, which increased from € 0.6 million to € 4.7 million due mainly to
the decline in the russian rouble.
      all in all, consolidated earnings before interest and taxes rose by around 12 percent to € 182.5 million in
the past financial year. ebit adjusted for the impact of allocating purchase prices, restructuring charges and
divestment amounted to € 192.7 million (previous year: € 198.7 million).
      the financial result including other investment income improved slightly to a negative balance of
€ 31.8 million (previous year: negative € 31.9 million). favourable refinancing terms offset the effects resulting
from the larger average amount of debt.
      consequently, earnings before taxes rose by around 15 percent to € 150.7 million in 2014. income taxes,
which were very low in the previous year due to exceptional items, came to € 35.7 million (previous year:
€ 25.3 million), equivalent to a tax rate of 23.7 percent (previous year: 19.3 percent). on balance, consolidated
net income rose by almost 9 percent to € 115.1 million. earnings per share improved from € 3.23 to € 3.51.


consolidated ebit 			                                                                                        € million


      2010                                                                                                     130.7

       2011                                                                                                    237.1

       2012                                                                                                    237.91

      2013                                                                                                     163.1

      2014                                                                                                     182.5

1
    adjustment due to amendment to ias 19



consolidated ebit by quarter                                                          2013        2014       € million


       1st quarter                                                                                               38.5
                                                                                                                 50.6

      2nd quarter                                                                                                39.3
                                                                                                                 47.3

      3rd quarter                                                                                                36.5
                                                                                                                 34.8

      4th quarter                                                                                                48.8
                                                                                                                 49.8

74 |   www.leoni.com




                       value creation increased by almost 8 percent
                       the leoni group increased its net value creation by almost 8 percent versus 2013 to € 999.5 million in 2014. it
                       is calculated on the basis of sales revenues and other income less cost of materials, depreciation/amortisation
                       and other advance payments and thus represents leoni’s own output. the largest part of the value created is
                       spent on staff. in 2014 they received a share of 81.7 percent in the form of wages and salaries as well as social
                       benefits. our shareholders received 3.9 percent, our lenders 3.2 percent and the government 3.6 percent. to
                       strengthen our financial base, 7.6 percent was retained in the company.

                       accruement

                       € million                                                                                                        2014                     2013

                       sales revenues                                                                                                 4,103.4                  3,917.9

                       other income                                                                                                      12.6                    10.4

                       cost of materials                                                                                             (2,436.3)               (2,354.7)

                       depreciation / amortisation                                                                                     (123.4)                 (121.0)

                       advance payments                                                                                               (556.8)                 (523.2)

                       net value added                                                                                                 999.5                    929.4




                       distribution

                       € million                                                                                                        2014                    2013

                       to staff (personnel costs, social security contributions)                                                       816.8                   766.0

                       to the company (retained income) 1                                                                                75.9                    73.2

                       to shareholders (dividend)       2
                                                                                                                                         39.2                    32.7

                       to government (income taxes)         3
                                                                                                                                         35.7                    25.3

                       to creditors (financial result) 4                                                                                 31.9                    32.2

                       net value added                                                                                                 999.5                   929.4
                       1
                         consolidated net income less dividend
                       2
                         subject to the approval of shareholders at the agm
                       3
                         income taxes only (excl. excise, property and transaction taxes as well as social security contributions)
                       4
                         excl. other investment income




                       distribution of value added			                                                                                                             2014

                                   creditors    3.2 %

                                   government      3.6 %

                                   shareholders     3.9 %

                                                                                                                                        employees   81.7 %
                                   company      7.6 %

                                                                                                                     | group management report   |   75

                                                                                                                      business report




financial situation

finance strategy
the leoni group endeavours to have a permanently solid, balanced finance structure. the aim is to maintain
an equity ratio of at least 35 percent and gearing (ratio of net financial liabilities to equity) below 50 percent
so as to lastingly safeguard the company’s strong acceptance by the capital market as well as banks and
suppliers. we use the capital market to cover our long-term need for finance. we obtain short-term finance
via credit lines from our core banks. deutsche bundesbank has rated leoni as an eligible borrower for more
than a decade. the rating agencies are not commissioned to issue a rating because this would, in our view, not
provide any added benefit. leoni does not have any financial covenants to fulfil.
  planned business growth is normally to be funded via net cash flow. furthermore, we take care that signifi-
cant expansion surges – especially in the case of acquisitions – are backed to an appropriate extent by equity.
details on capital management are contained in the notes.                                                             notes
                                                                                                                      ›› page 138


financial and liquidity management
the leoni group’s financial management is handled centrally by the leoni ag holding company. it ascertains
the capital requirement at group level and takes the necessary measures for the entire group of companies. in
exceptional cases we have recourse to regional, special finance deals. the most important objectives of finan-
cial management include safeguarding the group’s liquidity worldwide, optimising finance costs and reve-
nue as well as controlling and minimising currency and interest rate risks. we use a wide range of instruments
to keep our exposure to individual markets or types of finance as low as possible. generally speaking, leoni
pursues long-term collaboration with international banks that is based on mutual trust. group subsidiaries
are financed mostly in their functional currency. the principal financial liabilities in 2014 were denominated in
euros, indian rupees, russian roubles, south korean won and chinese yuan.
  among other means, the leoni group manages its liquidity via a cash pooling system with pools in the
home countries of the currencies of most importance to the group. furthermore, leoni ag executes the
majority of the payments for the group.
  in order to be able to reliably meet all our financial obligations at any time, we use capital market instru-
ments such as bonds and borrower’s note loans at the corporate level for the whole group and obtain credit
lines in sufficient amounts. existing credit lines were extended in 2014 to ensure liquidity. on 31 december
2014 there were short and medium-term credit lines from banks amounting to € 545.8 million (previous year:
€ 478.7 million) with terms up to 42 months, of which € 41.3 million were drawn down at year-end (previous
year: € 13.8 million).
  the off-balance sheet instruments leasing and factoring, which we use to improve liquidity, are also man-
aged at head office. factoring, in particular, is an important addition to the other instruments for short-term
liquidity management thanks to its flexibility in terms of the sales performance and the associated borrow-
ing requirement. at the end of 2014, factoring reduced trade receivables by the amount of € 126.2 million
(previous year: € 122.5 million). of the other liabilities, € 21.3 million (previous year: € 18.0 million) was due
to the receipt of payment on receivables that were sold within factoring agreements. details on leasing are
contained in the notes.                                                                                               notes
                                                                                                                      ›› page 138

76 |   www.leoni.com




                               interest rate and currency hedging
                               interest rate risks on money-raising measures are hedged with underlying instruments such as swaps and
                               collars. as at 31 december 2014 the nominal volume of existing interest rate swaps was € 63.5 million, un-
                               changed from the previous year. to minimise the impact of exchange rate variation on consolidated earnings,
                               foreign currency items are netted within the group. for the other amounts we make use of currency hedging
                               transactions; mostly in british pounds sterling, chinese yuan, mexican pesos, polish zloty, romanian leu and
                               us dollars. at the end of 2014, they amounted to € 628.9 million versus € 462.4 million on the same closing day
                 notes         one year earlier. further information on interest rate and currency risks is contained in the notes.
                 ›› page 138


                               finance measures: new borrower’s note loans
                               because of the still favourable market conditions, we issued two new variable-rate borrower’s note loans in
                               the nominal amounts of € 25 million and € 20 million in march and april 2014 maturing in 2020 and 2021,
                               respectively. we thereby again improved our finance structure, which is geared to the long term.
                               the following chart provides an overview of the existing material long-term finance:


                               long-term finance                                   amount                      placed                        term
                                                                                  in € million                    year                      to year

                               borrower’s note loan                                     63.0                     2012                 matures 2017
                                                                                        73.0

                               eib loan                                                100.0                     2013                 matures 2018
                               borrower’s note loan                                     25.0                     2012                 matures 2018
                                                                                        12.0
                               borrower’s note loan                                     48.5                     2012                 matures 2019
                                                                                        19.5

                               borrower’s note loan                                     25.0                     2013                 matures 2020

                               borrower’s note loan                                     25.0                     2014                 matures 2020

                               borrower’s note loan                                     20.0                     2014                 matures 2021

                               borrower’s note loan                                       9.0                    2012                 matures 2022


                               in addition, foreign currency loans amounting to around € 62 million with terms up to 2017 were extended or
                               taken out.


                               dividend policy
                               as a rule, leoni’s strategy provides for a payout of around one third of annual net income to shareholders in
                               order to meet shareholder expectations in the form of an appropriate dividend and to make sufficient liquidity
                               available to the company through profit retention.


                               cost of capital and roce
                               the weighted average cost of capital (wacc) for the leoni group decreased to 6.69 percent in 2014 (previ-
                               ous year: 8.19 percent). the return on capital employed (roce) increased to 13.7 percent (previous year: 13.4
                               percent). this means that the target figure, which was updated from around 16 percent to around 14 percent
                               last october as part of the adjustments made to results, was almost reached despite the fact that investments
                               and funds additionally tied up in working capital were higher than expected.

                                                                                                                                                    | group management report   |   77

                                                                                                                                                     business report




calculation of wacc

                                                                                                                  2014                      2013

risk-free interest                                                                                                1.5 %                    2.75 %

market risk premium                                                                                              6.00 %                    6.00 %

beta factor                                                                                                        1.23                      1.23

cost of equity after tax                                                                                        8.88 %                    10.13 %


borrowing costs before tax                                                                                       2.63 %                    3.61 %

tax rate                                                                                   28.00 %               0.74 %      28.00 %       1.01 %

borrowing costs after tax                                                                                       1.89 %                    2.60 %


equity proportion                                                                                               68.72 %                   74.23 %

proportion of borrowed funds                                                                                    31.28 %                   25.77 %
cost of capital after taxes (wacc)                                                                              6.69 %                     8.19 %




calculation of return on capital employed

€ million                                                                                                                         2014       2013

ebit                                                                                                                              182.5     163.1

intangible assets                                                                                                                  82.7      82.3

goodwill                                                                                                                          147.7     148.4

property, plant and equipment                                                                                                     810.1     709.8

inventories                                                                                                                       564.2     509.7

trade receivables                                                                                                                 544.9     502.7

others                                                                                                                            279.2     245.0

total assets                                                                                                                 2,428.8      2,197.9

trade liabilities                                                                                                                 704.9     675.1

other liabilities up to 1 year                                                                                                    176.2     149.0

others                                                                                                                            163.0     179.8

total equity and liabilities                                                                                                 1,044.1      1,003.9

capital employed on the reporting date                                                                                       1,384.7      1,194.0

capital employed, annual average1                                                                                            1,332.6      1,221.6

roce 2                                                                                                                           13.7 %   13.4 %
1
  calculation of the annual average is based on the past five quarterly reporting dates.
2
  prior-year figures restated




return on capital employed		                                                                                                                    %

                                   13.9                  24.0                     20.9               13.4   1
                                                                                                                          13.7




                                  2010                  2011                     2012                2013                 2014
1
    prior-year figures restated

78 |   www.leoni.com




                                       statement of cash flows:
                                       capacity expansion and risk provisions tie up additional funds
                                       in 2014, the leoni group generated cash provided by operating activities of € 180.8 million and thus at a
                                       level similar to the previous year’s figure of € 187.4 million. during the period under report, the improvement
                                       in results contrasted with a larger amount of funds tied up in working capital. this was mainly due to higher
                                       inventories. they resulted from measures to guard against geopolitical risks, the complex new product start-
                                       ups in the wiring systems division, the increasing globalisation of our activities and business expansion. the
                                       cash used for investments in 2014 totalled € 218.7 million and was substantially higher than the 2013 figure
                 capital expenditure   (previous year: € 150.7 million) because we expanded capacity in both divisions considerably. free cash flow
                 ›› page 79
                                       before acquisitions and divestments decreased to a negative amount of € 37.9 million (previous year: positive
                                       € 36.7 million).
                                             cash used for financing activity amounted to € 64.8 million (previous year: negative € 135.7 million). divi-
                                       dend payouts and scheduled principal payments were more than offset by inflows from the use of short-term
                 finance measures      credit lines as well as the issue of two new borrower’s note loans.
                 ›› page 76
                                             all told, the aforementioned cash inflows and outflows as well as exchange rate-related changes in the
                                       amount of € 7.1 million increased cash and cash equivalents by around 17 percent to € 232.0 million.


                                       operating cash flow			                                                                                         € million


                                              2010                                                                                                      142.3

                                              2011                                                                                                      246.1

                                              2012                                                                                                      211.7 1

                                              2013                                                                                                      187.4

                                              2014                                                                                                      180.8

                                       1
                                           adjustment due to amendment to ias 19




                                       consolidated statement of cash flows

                                       € million   (abridged version)                                                                2014               2013

                                       cash provided by operating activities                                                         180.8             187.4

                                       cash used for capital spending activities                                                    (218.7)          (150.7)

                                       cash provided by / used for financing activities                                               64.8           (135.7)

                                       change in cash and cash equivalents                                                            26.9            (98.9)

                                       cash and cash equivalents on 31 december                                                      232.0             198.0




                                       calculation of free cash flow 1

                                       € million                                                                                     2014              2013

                                       net income                                                                                    115.1             105.9

                                       write-downs / impairment cost                                                                 123.4             121.0

                                       changes in working capital                                                                    (68.2)           (42.3)

                                       other                                                                                          10.7                2.8

                                       cash provided by operating activities                                                         180.8            187.4

                                       cash used for capital spending excl. acquisitions / divestments                              (218.7)          (150.7)

                                       free cash flow                                                                                (37.9)             36.7
                                       1
                                           before acquisitions and divestments

                                                                                                                                                | group management report   |   79

                                                                                                                                                 business report




free cash flow 1			€ million


      2010                                                                                                                              50.7

       2011                                                                                                                            121.2

       2012                                                                                                                             63.5

      2013                                                                                                                              36.7

      2014                                                                                                                             (37.9)

1
    before acquisitions and divestments




capital investment substantially increased
the leoni group invested a total of € 215.8 million in 2014, some 28 percent more than in the same period of
2013. capital investment was exclusively for property, plant and equipment as well as intangible assets.
      the wiring systems division increased its capital investment by almost 39 percent to € 139.2 million (pre-
vious year: € 100.2 million). new plants were built in china, romania and serbia and our capacity at existing
locations in all major production regions, i.e. in asia, central america, north africa and eastern europe, was
expanded in order to tackle new projects for the car and commercial vehicles industries. moreover, we have
made our first step towards the expansion and modernisation of the divisional headquarters in kitzingen in
order to enhance leoni’s appeal as an employer.
      capital expenditure in the wire & cable solutions division increased by some 19 percent to € 68.0 million
(previous year: € 57.1 million). the focus was on further capacity for standard and special automotive cables,
particularly in china, germany, mexico and poland. we also invested in a new special cables plant for business
group industry & healthcare in slovakia and one in china as well as in additional production equipment for
various fast-growing industrial segments, primarily in germany and eastern europe. business group cc in-
stalled a state-of-the-art electroplating and wire rod breakdown line at the facility in weissenburg, germany.
      the leoni ag holding company invested € 8.6 million, down from € 11.1 million in the previous year. most
of this amount was spent on preparing the it infrastructure for the planned further expansion.

capital expenditure1                                      wiring systems                 wire & cable soultions          leoni ag   € million


                                          57.5           43.4 2.2
      2010                                                                                                                             103.1

                                                 76.3                      53.7 7.4
      2011                                                                                                                             137.4

                                                        98.7                          49.5 6.0
      2012                                                                                                                             154.2

                                                        100.2                             57.1 11.1
      2013                                                                                                                             168.4

                                                                              139.2                               68.0 8.6
      2014                                                                                                                             215.8

1
    excluding acquisitions and investments

80 |   www.leoni.com




                                           leoni increased its capital expenditure across all three regions: it rose particularly sharply – by almost
                                           53 percent to € 44.9 million – in asia and grew by over 36 percent to € 28.9 million in the americas and by
                                           around 21 percent to € 141.9 million in the emea countries with a focus on eastern europe.

                                           group capital expenditure by region 			                                                                                   2014



                                                       america    13.4 %


                                                                                                                                       emea total       65.8 %
                                                       asia/pacific   20.8 %
                                                                                                                                    eastern europe   34.0 %

                                                                                                                                          germany       15.7 %

                                                                                                                                               africa   10.1 %

                                                                                                                                       rest of emea      6.0 %




                                           asset situation

                                           stable and high equity ratio
                                           the leoni ag consolidated balance sheet as at 31 december 2014 was enlarged by about 11 percent com-
                                           pared with one year earlier, to € 2,667.2 million, but remained virtually unchanged in structural terms. on the
                                           asset side, there was an overall increase in current assets by around 10 percent to € 1,471.7 million. cash and
                                           cash equivalents rose by 17 percent to € 232.0 million and inventories increased by just under 11 percent to
                 statement of cash flows   € 564.2 million. alongside business expansion, the numerous, in some cases complex new product start-ups,
                 ›› page 78
                                           stocking up to hedge risks and further globalisation of our operations also had an impact in this respect. our
                                           increasingly global business also contributed to an increase in trade receivables and other financial assets by
                                           around 8 percent to € 562.4 million. other assets were up by almost 13 percent to € 92.6 million.


                                           asset and capital breakdown

                                           € million                                                                             31/12/2014               31/12/2013

                                           current assets                                                                            1,471.7                     1,332.4

                                           non-current assets                                                                        1,195.5                     1,067.4

                                           total assets                                                                              2,667.2                     2,399.7

                                           current liabilities                                                                       1,065.8                       963.6

                                           non-current liabilities                                                                     683.7                       608.5

                                           equity                                                                                      917.8                       827.6

                                           total equity and liabilities                                                              2,667.2                     2,399.7

                                                                                                                         | group management report   |   81

                                                                                                                          business report




non-current assets, which increased by around 12 percent to € 1,195.5 million, were affected mainly by
extensive capital expenditure in both divisions, which led to an increase in property, plant and equipment by
about 14 percent to € 810.1 million. the changes in the items intangible assets and goodwill were negligible.
by contrast, receivables from long-term development contracts rose by almost 18 percent to € 55.1 million due
to the large number of new projects in the wiring systems division. deferred tax assets increased by some 26
percent to € 72.0 million, due mainly to altered differences in balance sheet items resulting from adjustments
made in the measurement of pension obligations.
      on the liabilities side of the balance sheet, current liabilities increased by about 11 percent year-on-year to
€ 1,065.8 million. due to the expansion of our activities, trade liabilities and other financial liabilities increased
by just under 7 percent to € 744.2 million. current financial liabilities including the short-term proportion of
long-term loans more than doubled to € 99.8 million due to changes in loan maturities. in return, current pro-
visions decreased from € 37.1 million to € 28.3 million because significantly less restructuring measures were
required in 2014 than in the previous year. at € 151.0 million, other current liabilities were only slightly above
the corresponding pre-year figure of € 147.0 million.
      non-current liabilities, which overall rose by around 12 percent to € 683.7 million, reflected the issue of the
two new borrower’s note loans. non-current financial liabilities thereby increased by more than 8 percent to              finance measures
                                                                                                                          ›› page 76
€ 448.4 million. a sharp gain of almost 39 percent to € 157.2 million was also recorded by pension provisions,
whose value had to be adjusted due to the decline in the market interest-rate level. the changes to the other
non-current items were negligible. net financial liabilities were up from € 257.0 million to € 316.2 million.


equity ratio		                                                                                                       %

                                 23.8       31.8          32.91           34.5             34.4




                               2010         2011         2012             2013            2014
1
    adjustment due to amendment to ias 19




the leoni group’s equity grew by 11 percent year-on-year to € 917.8 million. the equity ratio was thus
virtually unchanged from the previous year at 34.4 percent (previous year: 34.5 percent). due to the consoli-
dated net income, retained earnings increased by more than 15 percent to € 619.3 million. accumulated other
comprehensive income improved from a negative figure of € 34.5 million to one of € 26.6 million. during the
period under report, large forex gains of € 39.0 million were offset by actuarial losses related to the adjusted
measurement of pension provisions amounting to € 29.2 million.

82 |   www.leoni.com




                       property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, goodwill 			                                                      € million


                             2010                                                                                                             809.6

                             2011                                                                                                             837.7

                             2012                                                                                                             917.7

                             2013                                                                                                             940.5

                             2014                                                                                                           1,040.4




                       calculation of net financial liabilities

                       € million                                                                    2014              2013                change

                       cash and cash equivalents                                                   232.0              198.0                  34.0

                       current financial liabilities                                               (99.8)            (41.3)                (58.5)

                       non-current financial liabilities                                          (448.4)           (413.7)                (34.7)

                       net financial position                                                     (316.2)           (257.0)                (59.2)




                       equity and net financial liabilities / gearing                 net financial liabilities   equity      € million    gearing

                              2010                                                                                              444.6
                                                                                                                                481.2          92 %

                              2011                                                                                              233.9
                                                                                                                                737.5          32 %

                              2012                                                                                              249.2
                                                                                                                                784.01         32 %

                              2013                                                                                              257.0
                                                                                                                                827.6          31 %

                              2014                                                                                              316.2
                                                                                                                                917.8          34 %

                       1
                           adjustment due to amendment to ias 19




                       off-balance sheet assets
                       alongside the assets presented in the consolidated balance sheet, the group also uses intangible assets,
                       which are not permitted to be entered on the balance sheet because of the applicable accounting require-
                       ments. mainly, these are primary customer and supplier relationships, production know-how, organisation
                       and process-related advantages as well as brand and human capital. use was furthermore made of leased
                       or rented assets that are not to be entered on the balance sheet as assets because of the chosen contractual
                       structure.

                                                                                                                                  | group management report   |   83

                                                                                                                                   other indicators




other indicators

procurement

cost of materials rises less than sales
the raw and plastic materials as well as components purchased during the year under report still accounted
for a large proportion of leoni’s sales. in 2014, the group-wide cost of materials rose by 3.6 percent to
€ 2,436.3 million, equating to 59.4 percent of sales and down from 60.0 percent in the previous year.
  in the wire & cable solutions division the cost of materials rose from € 1,168.4 million in the previous year
to € 1,206.7 million, which corresponded to 65.0 percent of the division’s sales (previous year: 66.4 percent).
copper remained our most important raw material with a quantity of more than 130,000 tons. in addition
there are such other metals as nickel, silver and tin. as in the previous year, plastics were the second-largest
group of materials with well over 50,000 tons. these included such special insulation materials as polyure-
thane, thermoplastic elastomers and fluoropolymers; such standard plastics as polyvinylchloride and polyeth-
ylene as well as plasticizers for production of pvc components.
  the wiring systems division buys cables and conductors for the manufacture of wiring systems mostly
from the wire & cable solutions division, but it also uses outside suppliers. connectors and fixings are largely
sourced externally. the division’s cost of materials in the period under report came to € 1,384.2 million (incl.
copper), up from € 1,351.0 million in the previous year and equating to about 58 percent of external sales as in
the previous year.


cost of materials in the wiring systems division 	                                      proportions of key material groups 2014


         others   5%

         electrical components   5%

         injection moulding parts     4%
                                                                                                 connectors     42 %
         fastening parts   9%

         cables and conductors      35 %




prices of key metals down in 2014
leoni sources its key raw material, copper, from major strategic suppliers, with the price geared to that
quoted on the london metal exchange. the price of copper initially declined during the period under report:
starting from € 5.45 per kg at the turn of the year, it fell to a low of € 4.72 per kg by 19 march 2014. thereafter
the metal gradually appreciated again, reaching a high of € 5.57 per kg on 21 november 2014. during the last
few weeks of the year the price dipped moderately to the closing level of € 5.34 per kg. on average in 2014, a
kilogramme of copper cost € 5.26, which was about 6 percent less than in the previous year.

84 |   www.leoni.com




                                        silver depreciated considerably during the year under report: at € 460.87 per kg, the average price of this
                                        precious metal was about 20 percent below the previous year’s level. by contrast, the annual average price of
                                        nickel was up by just over 12 percent to € 12.73 kg. the cost of tin was similar to the previous year at € 16.50
                                        per kilogramme.

                                        development of copper price 2014 (low del price)                                                                             € / 100 kg


                                        600


                                         575
                                                                                                                                   high 21/11/2014: € 557 / 100 kg

                                        550


                                        525


                                        500


                                         475
                                                                               low 19/3/2014: € 472 / 100 kg
                       del price 2014   450

                       annual average
                                                  jan     feb        march         apr           may           june   july   aug   sep           oct           nov    dec
                                        source: südkupfer marktdaten, südkupfer bröckl gmbh & co. kg




                                        plastics prices mixed
                                        on the whole, there was only minor change in the prices for standard plastics and plasticizers in 2014. not
                                        until the fourth quarter was there sign of a downtrend due to the lower price of oil. it remains to be seen
                                        whether this trend lasts. on the other hand, special plasticisers, which we require to make automotive cable
                                        compounds, became increasingly expensive during the year as shortages repeatedly occurred.


                                        component procurement: focus on asia and the americas
                                        to procure components like connectors and fixings leoni frequently works with suppliers that are stipulated
                                        by customers in the automotive industry as part of being awarded the contract. we respond with intensive,
                                        global negotiations with suppliers, new technologies and substitution to price increases and procurement
                                        bottlenecks. during the year under report, securing supply for our facilities in asia and the americas, which
                                        had to deal with major, worldwide new product start-ups, played an especially important role. we also
                                        focused our supplier marketing even more sharply on such future-oriented business segments as electromo-
                                        bility.


                                        taking advantage of innovation and performance potential
                                        enhancing and maintaining supplier capital is of major significance to leoni. in the wcs division, we broad-
                                        ened our procurement management further in 2014 to involve high-performing and innovative suppliers in
                                        product creation at an early stage. in addition, we launched ‘purchasing excellence’, an ambitious project
                                        within the division-wide ‘wcs on excellence’ performance programme, which aims to tap global procure-
                                        ment synergies.
                                           in the wiring systems division, we defined and implemented improvement programmes to optimise
                                        performance with all key suppliers and thereby to meet the high demands placed on parts and components
                                        supplied worldwide. as planned, we also set up a global contract management system to support our increas-
                                        ingly international activity and to prepare ourselves for the entry of our customers into new markets.

                                                                                                                            | group management report   |   85

                                                                                                                             other indicators




employees

workforce enlarged to 67,988 employees worldwide
leoni further enlarged its workforce worldwide in 2014. at the end of the year, the number of employees was
up by 6,397 on the previous year to 67,988 people. there was recruitment particularly in asia, the americas,
north africa and eastern europe. in the wiring systems division the workforce increased by 5,893 to 59,056
employees. the biggest rises took place in mexico because of extensive and complex new product start-ups.
the wire & cable solutions division had 8,679 employees at the end of december and thus 478 more than one
year earlier. here the number of staff grew above all at the automotive plants in china, mexico and poland as
well as in roth, germany. leoni ag’s holding company had 253 employees at the end of december 2014, 26
more than one year earlier.
  the vast majority of the overall workforce – 63,680 people (previous year: 57,369) or a 93.7 percent propor-
tion (previous year: 93.1 percent) – was again employed outside germany in 2014. in germany, 4,308 people
worked for leoni (previous year: 4,222). 9.9 percent (previous year: 10.7 percent) of all employees worked in
high wage countries and 90.1 percent (previous year: 89.3 percent) worked in low-wage countries. to be able
to respond flexibly to cyclical fluctuation, 13,453 members of the overall staff were on temporary employment
contracts at the end of 2014 (previous year: 13,756). in addition, there were 6,366 people working via person-
nel leasing contracts (previous year: 5,679), particularly in china.
  the average age in 2014 of leoni employees in germany was 41.0 years as in 2013 and the average number
of years of service was 11.0 (previous year: 11.4). 87 employees celebrated their 25th anniversary with the
company (previous year: 59). overall, 3.3 percent of employees were severely handicapped (previous year:
2.6 percent), 345 people (previous year: 305) worked part-time and a further 86 (previous year: 109) were in
partial retirement.
  in 2014, all significant personnel measures were applied in close agreement and constructive collaboration
between management and the general works councils in germany and france, the european works council as
well as with local employee representatives and works councils.


group employees                                                                                         as of 31 december

              55,156                      60,745        59,393             61,591                67,988




             2010                         2011         2012               2013                   2014




employees by division 	                                                                           as of 31 december 2014



        leoni ag    0.3 %


        wire & cable solutions   12.8 %

                                                                                       wiring systems   86.9 %

86 |   www.leoni.com




                                         employees by region 	                                                                                                     as of 31 dec. 2014



                                                  asia/pacific     7.8 %

                                                  americas       12.4 %
                                                                                                                                                     emea total    79.8 %

                                                                                                                                                       germany   6.3 %

                                                                                                                                                eastern europe     34.8 %

                                                                                                                                                         africa    35.7 %

                                                                                                                                                    rest of emea    2.9 %




                                         development of number of employees by wage region             in low wage countries            in high wage countries     as of 31 december


                                                                                                                 49,134         6,022
                                           2010                                                                                                                               55,156

                                                                                                                            54,353         6,392
                                           2011                                                                                                                               60,745

                                                                                                                          52,891        6,502
                                           2012                                                                                                                               59,393

                                                                                                                               54,997        6,594
                                           2013                                                                                                                               61,591

                                                                                                                                           61,254          6,734
                                           2014                                                                                                                               67,988




                                         leoni as an attractive employer
                                         in order, as an attractive employer, to find and retain skilled and committed staff, leoni provides its employ-
                                         ees with interesting jobs and a high degree of personal responsibility in a motivating, encouraging and con-
                                         structive environment. among the aspects contributing to this are flexible working-time models, extensive
                                         advanced training options and performance-related compensation. occupational health and safety also play
                 sustainability report   an important part in the appeal of a job. information on this is provided in the sustainability report.
                 ›› page 93


                                         working-time models there is a range of flexible working-time arrangements, like part-time, flexitime
                                         and trust-based working, job-sharing and teleworking, available to our staff. the objective is to achieve a
                                         better work-life balance and thereby greater diversity in the workforce. at our facilities in kitzingen and roth,
                                         germany, for instance, we extended the options for home office working. by adjusting shift-work models and
                 sustainability report   times at some plants we also established more ergonomic working conditions.
                 ›› page 93


                                         company suggestion scheme leoni’s employees have a keen interest in proactively shaping their company
                                         and contributing to its success. this is also reflected in our ideas management system, through which about
                                         17,500 suggestions for improvement worldwide were deemed useful and implemented in 2014 (previous year:
                                         about 18,500). this concerned all areas of the company and ranged from process optimisation to product
                                         improvement and through to energy savings as well as staff motivation.

                                                                                                                    | group management report   |   87

                                                                                                                     other indicators




advanced training the focal areas of our extensive range of advanced training opportunities in 2014 were
in-house training in the areas of trade, leadership and management skills, soft skills, project management,
it, languages, production organisation and mental health. in addition, there were options as required to
participate in outside training, especially to acquire specialist and methodology expertise. in germany we
conducted 832 training sessions (previous year: 1,110) for 3,968 participants (previous year: 4,267). in addition
there were management training courses at various levels as well as pilot events for such new international
management training concepts as the young professional development program, which we initially ran for
junior staff in eastern europe. we furthermore granted scholarships to former apprentices with very good final
results and covered a share of the costs of career-related studies and certification courses of our employees.


performance-related compensation leoni’s incentive compensation program was updated in 2014 as
planned. the key aspect of the model for compensating trade and management staff is a variable target
agreement, which takes into account both corporate and personal objectives and, as a matter of principle,
draws on the previous year as a benchmark. in addition, there is a long-term incentive system for senior
management. restructuring of the programme is intended to achieve incentive for more sustainable business
growth on the one hand, and a fairer, simpler measurement system on the other hand.


the top employers institute also provided outside confirmation of leoni’s appeal as an employer by again
commending our company as a ‘top employer germany’ in 2014.


broadening diversity
leoni endeavours to establish a prejudice-free working environment that does not discriminate against
anyone. corresponding instructions are contained in the company’s own policy documents and in external
declarations on principle, which leoni has signed.                                                                   sustainability report
                                                                                                                     ›› page 93
  to promote diversity within the company, we launched the pool of engineers training programme in 2014
for instance; with it we are aiming to gain engineers from eastern europe for deployment in germany. leoni
furthermore participated in the third leg of the ‘women in management positions’ project, which is intended
to promote the careers of female trade-qualified staff and junior managers, as well as in the girls’ days of
schools and universities to provide young women with insight into technical careers.
  during the year under report, women accounted for 53 percent (previous year: 54 percent) of leoni’s total
workforce and 28 percent (previous year: 25 percent) of management positions. leoni thereby succeeded in
raising the proportion of women in leading positions. we also encourage diversity among our partners: for
instance, in france we are also increasingly working with companies that employ people with disabilities.


training and starting a career
leoni employed 166 apprentices at the end of december 2014 (previous year: 150) and thus more than need-
ed in-house. they were learning a vocation at twelve facilities in state-of-the-art classrooms and in some cases
dedicated training workshops within the framework of 20 mainstream commercial and trade apprenticeships
as well as twin-track courses of study.

88 |   www.leoni.com




                       number of apprentices in germany                                                                       as of 31 december

                                     176                  156                 155                  150                 166




                                    2010                  2011               2012                 2013                 2014



                       at our key apprenticeship facility in roth, our young talents acquired overarching skills in the leoni junior
                       group – a company within a company that is run by apprentices with full responsibility. all german
                       apprentices had the opportunity in 2014 to get to know other employees and business divisions during a
                       works outing. for our next generation in china there is also a technical training center based on the german
                       model, where our junior employees receive specialist training towards mechanical and electrical qualifica-
                       tions.
                         numerous leoni apprentices were commended for their good performance during the year under report.
                       three mechanical engineering apprentices were awarded the bavarian state prize for outstanding apprentice
                       performance. three prospective industrial managers received recognition from the central franconia govern-
                       ment based on their very good vocational school reports as well as an advancement award from sparkasse
                       (savings bank), while one apprentice won the toolcraft industry award. furthermore, one former leoni junior
                       cable engineer was bestowed the citizen’s award of the city of roth for outstanding achievements in occupa-
                       tional training.
                         23 young people completed the practical semester of their twin-track university course at leoni (previous
                       year: 18). in 2014 we offered additional places for the business administration courses of service management
                       and trade as well as mechanical engineering (production and management). furthermore and as in the preced-
                       ing years, university graduates were able to start at leoni with a trainee programme or to join the company
                       directly in certain positions.


                       recruitment of young people
                       in 2014, we again worked closely together with schools to stimulate the interest of young people in leoni.
                       alongside application coaching, a careers day and various collaborative projects, we offered young people
                       the opportunity to familiarise themselves with leoni as a potential employer during the ‘apprenticeships
                       evening’ held at our facility in roth. we also again presented our company at careers orientation events
                       and careers exchanges. we established contact with students and graduates at 30 university and corporate
                       networking fairs. leoni also gained recognition as an employer via work on university final papers, intern-
                       ships in and outside germany as well as student work placements and casual employment. in the wake of our
                       increasing degree of globalisation, we also stepped up our contact with universities outside germany in 2014.


                       human resource strategy and organisation
                       leoni’s human resource strategy aims to present the company as an attractive employer also in the future
                       and to underpin the projected growth in structural terms. given the greater globalisation, such topics as glob-
                       al recruitment as well as talent and skills development are also increasingly gaining in significance. our hrso-
                       lutions programme aimed at group-wide harmonisation of key human resource standards, structures and pro-
                       cesses was implemented in further, significant production countries in 2014. we made progress among other
                       areas in standardising payroll and working time systems, talent management and in the recruitment systems.

                                                                                                                   | group management report   |   89

                                                                                                                    other indicators




research & development

r&d objectives
leoni’s in-depth research & development (r&d) work is aimed at developing products and solutions, further
enhancing our leading competitive position in many markets as well as developing additional customer
groups. in line with our group strategy, we therefore intend to step up our r&d activity in asia and the ameri-
cas as well as to enhance the efficiency and excellence of our production processes. we are also endeavouring
to broaden our systems expertise and to become the most innovative cable provider.


organisation
the responsibility for r&d work lies in the two business divisions and their specialist departments. the wiring
systems division operates development centres in, among other countries, china, germany, france, the
united kingdom, slovakia, south korea and the united states. the wsd head office department in kitzingen
performs additional development work and provides project-related support.
  the wire & cable solutions division has a division-wide development network with customer-oriented and
efficient units. in addition, we perform development work for the group, primarily so in competence centres
in germany and switzerland. as part of the new coo organisation, the structures were concentrated even
more on the r&d targets during the year under report. we thus established new corporate functions that are
focused on optimising production. our strategic technology and innovation management, corporate advance
development and professional patent development ensure that new developments are applied and safe-
guarded.
  the r&d specialists of the two divisions collaborate closely in many areas of work. leoni can thereby com-
bine a wide variety of know-how for specific tasks, thus achieving synergies also in the interests of customers.


focal areas of development
development work in the wiring systems division continued in 2014 to focus on customised, project-related
wiring systems. the search for alternative conductor materials to save weight was also continued. we further-
more stepped up our work in the high voltage segment and enhanced our simulation expertise to further
improve our position as a development partner for the motor vehicle industry.
  the wire & cable solutions division during the year under report likewise worked on a large number of
customer and market-specific projects, including expansion of its portfolio of halogen-free cables, minia-
turised cables, fiber optic cables and production for high-frequency applications. alongside the automotive
industry, the most important target markets included medical technology, the capital goods industry and the
infrastructure sector. we also maintained the commitment to green technology and optimisation of produc-
tion processes in the area of metals and alloys. furthermore, we worked even harder on developing innovative
signal and power transfer solutions, for instance with such alternative conductor materials as aluminium and
non-metallic conductors in the cable harness, as well as on systematic realisation of cost and weight optimisa-
tion potential.

90 |   www.leoni.com




                       r&d spending up by 3 percent
                       group-wide spending on research and development rose by 3 percent to € 109.3 million in 2014, which, as in
                       the previous year, equated to a 2.7 percent proportion of consolidated sales. assets furthermore included
                       € 2.7 million in capitalised development costs (previous year: € 0.2 million). the deferred development costs
                       and those capitalised as receivables amounted to € 22.7 million in the financial year (previous year:
                       € 21.5 million).
                         at the end of 2014, 2.4 percent (previous year: 2.7 percent) of the overall workforce worked in r&d. group-
                       wide this was a total of 1,637 employees in r&d (previous year: 1,636); of that, 356 (previous year 359) in the
                       wire & cable solutions division and 1,281 (previous year: 1,277) in the wiring systems division.
                         the wiring systems division’s spending on r&d in the period under report was up by about 5 percent to
                       € 98.6 million, or 4.1 percent of the division’s sales. numerous new product start-ups were the reason. the
                       wire & cable solutions division reduced its spending by some 2 percent to € 12.6 million, which equated to an
                       approximately 0.7 percent proportion of the division’s sales.

                       r & d spending in the group 			                                                                             € million

                         2010                                                                                                            75.9

                         2011                                                                                                            84.1

                         2012                                                                                                            93.6

                         2013                                                                                                         106.1

                         2014                                                                                                         109.3




                       r & d spending as a proportion of consolidated sales			                                                             %

                                             2.6              2.3             2.5              2.7            2.7




                                             2010            2011            2012             2013           2014




                       results of r&d work
                       during the year under report, leoni again completed various customer-specific development projects, took
                       products to the marketability stage and registered proprietary rights. the number of submitted patents and
                       utility models rose from 42 to 55, of which 23 stemmed from the wiring systems division (previous year 24)
                       and 32 from the wire & cable solutions division (previous year 18). some of the most significant new devel-
                       opments of 2014 are described below. many of these innovations also strengthen our position in the green
                       technology segment thanks to weight reduction and the use of environmentally friendly materials.


                       saving weight with aluminium in the wiring systems division we took an aluminium busbar that we
                       developed to readiness for production and it is already being used by the first customers. these solid, round,
                       ready-to-install aluminium rods serve the power supply within a vehicle. they establish a weight and space
                       saving connection between the battery and the motor. the potential of this lightweight metal is tremendous:
                       in 2015 our customers in the automotive industry will probably save about 400 tons of material by using
                       leoni aluminium products.

                                                                                                                     | group management report   |   91

                                                                                                                      other indicators




new high voltage components we extended our range of products for electric and hybrid vehicles with,
among other things, a newly developed high voltage charging socket that is suited to various types of vehicle.
leoni has already obtained initial production run contracts. progress was also made in the 48 volt segment.
for instance, we presented the prototype of a smaller, more lightweight high-voltage distributor at first trade
fairs. this innovation will probably be ready for mass production from 2016.


innovative insulation materials the wire & cable solutions division launched various new insulation mate-
rials for automotive cables – for example leoni fluy, a copper cable with ultra-thin insulation wall thickness
that is currently being trialled in the first test vehicles. we furthermore presented halogen-free and thus
especially environmentally friendly compounds, which are suited to constant operating temperatures of up to
125 or 150 degrees celsius and are simultaneously especially abrasion proof as well as resistant to dirt and oil.


intelligent charging cable with its ievc (illuminated electrical vehicle charging cable), leoni presented
a concept for an innovative charging cable with a status-indicating illumination function for electric and
hybrid vehicles, which is to be developed through to readiness for production in 2015. the ievc displays the
charge status via an integrated illumination unit along the cable; it is universally deployable, just as robust as
conventional charging cables, and especially energy efficient through the use of led technology. moreover,
the targeted use of bio-based materials and recycled copper raises the proportion of sustainable materials in
the charging cable to over 50 percent. at the ecartec munich – the leading international fair for the electric
and hybrid mobility trade – our ievc was nominated for the ‘ecartec award’ in the product concept/vision
category.


development partner for medical technology on behalf of a major medical equipment manufacturer,
leoni developed various microscope cables for a software-supported surgical navigation system. this in-
volves linking our assembled cables of the navigation module with the various connectable surgical micro-
scopes. these especially durable, robust special cables boast high transfer quality and thus reliably transmit
data, energy and power.


solutions for specific local requirements to forge ahead with the planned globalisation of the wire & cable
solutions division’s activity, we increasingly require products and solutions that meet the specific demands in
the growth markets of importance to us. among other products, we therefore in 2014 developed technologies
specific to the asian railway industry as well as automotive cable compounds for the chinese and the indian
car market.


development projects and collaboration
both of our divisions continued during the year under report to work together with partners on various, in
some cases subsidised development projects. among other things, the wiring systems division participat-
ed in the ‘motorized wheel’ project of various french automotive industry companies, which is working on
electrical drive systems that are integrated in the wheel. another joint project involved the development of
new processes for bonding aluminium conductors. the ‘high-teg’ project involving several universities and
research institutions with the aim of producing thermoelectric generators, with which the waste heat in cars
can be used to generate electrical power, was successfully completed.

92 |   www.leoni.com




                       a significant objective that the wire & cable solutions division pursued in 2014 is the development of new
                       kinds of flame retardants based on nanotechnology, which were tested as part of an eu-subsidised project.
                       here we are collaborating with the école nationale supérieure de chimie de lille. furthermore, a plan to trial
                       new conductor materials based on non-metallic substances is of strategic importance. to achieve this, we
                       maintain close contact with well-known international institutions. other partners for various joint research
                       projects are, for example, the fraunhofer institute, friedrich-alexander university in erlangen, nuremberg and
                       technische hochschule nürnberg (technical university of nuremberg). some know-how was also acquired
                       with outside institutions and development partners in the context of this collaboration, but generally to an
                       insignificant extent only.
                         to exchange ideas on the latest technological trends with other companies and the scientific community,
                       we are also members of various initiatives like the ‘polyking’ plastics technology network of the university
                       of würzburg-schweinfurt, the ‘automotive cluster’ of bayern innovativ, the bavarian centre for technology
                       transfer, and the ‘enova strategy board for electric mobility’. we were also again development partners of
                       two teams participating in the ‘formula student’ universities design competition.

                                                                                                                        | group management report      |   93

                                                                                                                         sustainability report




sustainability report

leoni endeavours to strike a balance between social and ecological interests in addition to aiming for long-
term economic success. we thus observe – in addition to legal requirements – such recognised standards
as the german corporate governance code, the un global compact and the charta of diversity. there are                    corporate governance
                                                                                                                         report
furthermore internal sets of rules like our social charta, the leoni code of ethics and guidelines on quality            ›› page 32

policy as well as occupational safety, health and the environment (abbreviated she). we have established
management systems for compliance, quality as well as she to implement these guidelines and to systemati-
cally improve our orientation towards sustainability.
  the following sections report on the key developments of the past year in the areas of quality, social
matters, occupational health and safety as well as environmental protection and green technology. detailed
information on the topic of sustainability can be found in our annual communication on progress (cop), to
which leoni has committed itself under the un global compact. the current communication on progress as
well as our internal guidelines can be viewed on leoni’s website. the un global compact index also provides              leoni’s website
                                                                                                                         ›› www.leoni.com
an overview of our activity. the risk and opportunity report contains information on compliance.
                                                                                                                         un global compact index
                                                                                                                         ›› page 220


quality management                                                                                                       risk and opportunity report
                                                                                                                         ›› page 98


in both of its divisions, leoni continually optimises its quality management systems to ensure the high
level of reliability and excellence of its products, services and processes. in the wiring systems division, the
integrated management system, which comprises the activity involving quality, she and productivity, was
complemented with more content and made more user friendly in 2014. due to the mounting complexity of
our wiring system projects, we furthermore prepared a new guideline for the project management process
and will in the future support planning and execution with globally harmonised software. the repeat audits
pursuant to the iso/ts 16949 automotive industry standard that were due were successfully passed in the
year under report, meaning that all wsd facilities continue to be certified to this standard. in addition there
were customer-specific audits for particular facilities and projects. as founding members of the ‘automotive
quality alliance’ initiative of the german association of the automotive industry (vda), we furthermore made
a statement for quality as a key precondition for the market success of manufacturers and suppliers in the
automotive industry.
  in the wire & cable solutions division there were again, during the year under report, numerous individ-
ual measures to raise quality at its facilities. in the division-wide project to harmonise business processes by
means of a standard /template for the erp system, a milestone was reached with completion of the new erp
system at the roth pilot facility. this also includes improved and system-led quality assurance processes. two
subsidiaries, one in serbia and one in slovakia, passed certification to iso 9001 for the first time, meaning that,
as in the previous year, all of this division’s companies fulfil this quality standard. our new facility in india was
furthermore also certified to the iso/ts 16949 automotive industry standard, which encompasses a total of
ten plants. moreover, three business units are certified to the iso 13485 medical devices standard and two are
certified to the en 9100 aerospace standard.

94 |   www.leoni.com




                                            various customer awards again in the past year underscored the high quality of our products and our depend-
                                            ability as a partner:


                                            customer awards 2014

                                            division                                     award

                                            wsd, bg us customers & commercial vehicles   ‘caterpillar supplier quality excellence recertification’, caterpillar

                                            wsd, bg us customers & commercial vehicles   ‘supplier quality excellence award’, general motors

                                            wsd, bg us customers & commercial vehicles   ‘best practices recognition’, general motors

                                            wsd, bg german customers                     ‘outstanding supplier’, benz beijing automotive company

                                            wsd, bg asian customers                      ‘top 50 excellent supplier in chinese automotive industry’, vogel industry media china

                                            wsd, bg european customers                   ‘supplier award’ in the productivity category, fiat

                                            wsd, bg european customers                   ‘supplier award’ in the quality category, psa

                                            wcs, bg industry & healthcare                ‘supplier of the year’, siemens healthcare (x-ray-products)

                                            wcs, bg industry & healthcare                1st place in the annual ranking of siemens healthcare (imaging & it division)

                                            wcs, bg industry & healthcare                ‘2014 best quality supplier’, siemens shenzhen magnetic resonance

                                            wcs, bg industry & healthcare                ‘molex oscar’, molex

                                            wcs, bg automotive cables                    ‘top quality’ award, bosch and siemens home appliances group

                                            wcs, bg communication & infrastructure       ‘top quality’ award, bosch and siemens home appliances group

                                            wcs, bg communication & infrastructure       ‘supplier award’, solarworld ag




                                            staff and social matters

                                            our employees are a factor crucial to leoni’s objective of sustained growth. leoni regards successful recruit-
                 employees                  ment, basic and advanced training of staff, provision of attractive jobs as well as ensuring equal rights as key
                 ›› page 85
                                            indicators for sustainability; likewise healthy and safe working conditions. against the backdrop of increasing
                 occupational safety,       globalisation with worldwide production activity, we have been committing ourselves ever since 2003 in a
                 health and environmental
                 protection                 ‘declaration on social rights and industrial relations’ (social charta) to ensuring human rights and fundamen-
                 ›› page 95
                                            tal employee protection rights at all leoni locations. in so doing, leoni adheres globally to the requirements
                                            of the international labour organsisation (ilo) of the united nations. fulfilment of these standards is regularly
                                            reviewed at all of our plants by our internal auditing.
                                              we also call upon our business partners to match our principles. leoni’s general purchasing conditions
                                            oblige suppliers to observe our social charta and the principles of the un global compact. serious and
                                            repeated breaches of the principles stipulated therein entitle leoni to terminate the supply relationship im-
                                            mediately. in the wiring systems division, observance of various social and ecological criteria is also checked
                                            using a supplier self-audit. at the facilities of the wcs division, third-party companies are, for example,
                                            instructed on our occupational health and safety rules. the supplier self-audit furthermore refers to the leoni
                                            code of ethics.

                                                                                                                           | group management report   |   95

                                                                                                                            sustainability report




in 2014, leoni voluntarily committed itself to reporting pursuant to the u.s. dodd-frank wall street and
consumer protection act on the extent to which our products contain conflict minerals, which stem from the
mines or smelting works of certain african countries. we thereby facilitate the traceability of these substances
as well as the transparency of our supply chain and support our customers in fulfilling their corresponding re-
quirements. leoni does not knowingly procure any materials that contain such minerals. in the future we will
also expect of our suppliers that they provide us only with components containing raw materials stemming
from responsibly managed sources.
  leoni commits itself to various social projects and institutions with donations and sponsorship. our spon-
sorship concept provides for most of this support for social activity to be committed at the various locations.
to a lesser extent there are in addition contributions to culture, education and science as well as sport. the
regional focus in 2014 was on tunisia, where, with our annual donation, we modernised as well as extended
a primary school and supported an organisation that cares for autistic people. in germany, leoni supported,
among other things, children’s nurseries, schools and facilities for disabled people as well as refugee reception
centres.



occupational safety, health and environmental protection (she)

collaboration for she stepped up
since 2013, both of leoni’s divisions have had she guidelines consistent in their content to prevent work-                  leoni website
                                                                                                                            ›› www.leoni.com
related accidents and illnesses at work as well as to reduce environmental impact. the collaboration between
our two divisions was stepped up during the year under report on this basis and especially in the area of
environmental protection.
  in 2014, numerous plants and branch offices were again subjected to internal and external audits that test
and document our she standards. the wiring systems division successfully passed the third matrix sampling
test as part of multi-site certification to the international iso 14001 environmental protection standard, which
currently covers a total of 22 facilities. the sites audited were in brazil, germany, romania and tunisia. in
addition, five facilities passed repeat audit to the ohsas 18001 occupational health and safety standard. we
also conducted internal she audits in ten organisational units in brazil, germany, morocco, mexico and serbia.
further plants were prepared for initial certification in 2015.
  in the wire & cable solutions division, the facility in stolberg, germany, was certified for the first time to
both ohsas 18001 and iso 50001. our facility in roth also fulfilled this energy management standard for the
first time. in addition, there was initial certification of a facility of the slovakian subsidiary to iso 14001. half of
all legal wcs entities are thus certified to this environmental standard, while seven are also emas validated.


she activity


safety to further enhance safety at work, eight facilities in the wire & cable solutions division carried out a
self-assessment with respect to occupational health and safety in 2014. the methodology for assessing haz-
ards was also improved. the wiring systems division prepared a very extensive safety standard for its goods
in and out areas as well as storage. as a matter of principle, we aim for a zero accident rate. our in any case
very low rate of accidents at work was again slightly improved.

96 |   www.leoni.com




                       health in order to provide our staff with healthier working conditions, we introduced, among other things,
                       models for short rotations of shifts with no more than three night shifts in a row as well as more ergonomic
                       starting times at some wcs plants during the year under report. within the holding company, the focus was
                       on benefits for preventive healthcare – for instance master agreements with fitness clubs and trainers, nu-
                       trition advice, skin screening offers, a ‘day of the back’ as well as impromptu events on nutrition and making
                       managers more aware of situations involving mental stress.


                       environment as planned, the plant and equipment-intensive wire & cable solutions division raised energy
                       efficiency in its production further. as part of the division-wide environmental target for 2014, the larger
                       production facilities were again set corresponding targets and were called upon to make improvements as
                       and where necessary. the focus was on more economic generation and distribution of compressed air, the
                       key medium for the wire & cable solutions division’s production processes. furthermore, all plants have
                       individual targets for environmental protection, in particular concerning waste minimisation and lowering
                       specific energy consumption, and are executing corresponding projects. for instance, modern lighting with
                       energy-efficient lamps, presence detectors and daylight control was installed at several facilities in germany,
                       poland and slovakia. the wiring systems division in the year under report assigned various master’s, bache-
                       lor’s and internship projects to develop potential for improvement in environmental protection. among other
                       topics, these were ‘green logistics’, ‘product carbon footprint’ as well as ‘energy efficiency’.


                       energy consumption and co2 emissions in the group
                       as part of its un global compact communication on progress, leoni has since 2012 made public the trend in
                       its group-wide energy use and co2 emissions. we regard both of these figures as key indicators for sustaina-
                       bility. the figures available by the date of the management report refer to 2013: that year we consumed about
                       112 mwh of energy per € 1 million of sales and emitted about 57 tons of co2. the differences versus the year
                       2012 also reflected, alongside a changed method of calculation, the greater amount of work involved in the
                       numerous new product start-ups as well as country-specific factors, which cannot be influenced, for convert-
                       ing the energy mix to calculate the co2 emissions. the corresponding data for 2014 will be available at the end
                       of march 2015 and will be made public in the next un global compact communication on progress.

                       energy consumption in the group                                                                    mwh / per € 1 million sales


                          2009                                                                                                                    140

                          2010                                                                                                                    115

                          2011                                                                                                                    100

                          2012                                                                                                                     97

                          2013                                                                                                                    112




                       group-wide, direct co2 emissions		                                                                    t per € 1 million of sales

                                               55             52               45              46               57




                                             2009            2010            2011             2012            2013

                                                                                                                                                        | group management report   |   97

                                                                                                                                                         sustainability report




green technology

leoni understands the term ‘green technology’ as encompassing all products, system solutions and services
that make the use of energy more efficient and easier on resources, thereby reducing emissions and pollution
of the environment. leoni already serves all of the most significant markets for environmental technologies
as defined by the german federal ministry for the environment (bmu), and is very well positioned in many of
these sectors. the table below provides an overview of our fields of application for green technology:


market segment                           examples of applications for leoni products
environmentally-friendly energy           solar energy (e.g. photovoltaic and solar thermal plants)
generation and storage                    bioenergy (e.g. biogas and biomass power plants)
                                          hydro power (e.g. tidal and pumped storage power plants)




energy efficiency                           energy consumption-lowering measurement and control technology
                                            energy efficient automotive and drive technology

efficiency of raw and other materials       measuring and control technology to avoid scrap
                                            lightweight materials and components

recycling management                        waste separation and disposal plants
                                            recycling (plastics recycling plants)

sustainable water management                water treatment, distribution, supply and cleaning plants
                                            household appliances with high water consumption efficiency

sustainable mobility                      vehicles with hybrid, electric and fuel cell power
                                          charging cables and infrastructure
                                          rolling stock engineering




      focal markets




leoni expanded its range of products and services in the area of green technology further in 2014. detail con-
cerning the new developments may be found in the section headed research & development. group-wide,                                                      research & development
                                                                                                                                                         ›› page 89
sales of products and solutions for green technology were up by 17 percent to € 251.0 million in fiscal 2014
(previous year: € 214.5 million).

sales involving applications for green technology                                         wiring systems           wire & cable solutions   € million


                       41.3                                                       126.8
   2010                                                                                                                                        168.1

                                          87.2                                                                 135.9
   2011                                                                                                                                        223.1

                                                  98.9                                                         123.7
   2012                                                                                                                                        222.6

                                               92.1                                                        122.4
   2013                                                                                                                                        214.5

                                                      103.8                                                                    147.2
   2014                                                                                                                                        251.0




we also assess our production processes with respect to green technology. group-wide, our sales of products
that are made in environmentally certified facilities or using energy efficient plant and machinery increased
from € 3,087.8 million to € 3,143.7 million in 2014. of that figure, € 1,128.5 million pertained to the wire &
cable solutions division (previous year: € 1,076.8 million) and € 2,015.2 million to the wiring systems division
(previous year: € 2,011.0 million).

98 |   www.leoni.com




                       risk and opportunity report

                       as a company with an international outlook and operating accordingly, leoni is regularly confronted with
                       risks and opportunities. our objective is to accept risks only when the associated opportunities can be expect-
                       ed to make an appropriate contribution to enterprise value and any threat to continued existence can be ruled
                       out. to do so we have set up an effective risk and opportunity management system. as a general rule, risks
                       and opportunities are defined at leoni as deviation from the planned result.


                       risk and opportunity management


                                                       supervisory board



                                                       management board


                                                      operational manager                                corporate internal control committee
                                                                                                                          +
                                                                                                         corporate risk management committee
                                                                                                                          +
                                  responsibility for risk / internal control system / compliance           corporate compliance committee


                                       risk / internal control system / compliance manager

                                                         wiring systems         wire & cable solutions
                              central functions
                                                            division                   division



                                public auditors                                    internal audit




                       risk management system

                       leoni has a multi-stage risk management systems as well as other, supporting control systems for early
                       identification of risks that might threaten the company’s continued existence. this group-wide system
                       encompasses the corporate risk manager and two area risk managers as well as the managers involved in the
                       operations of all relevant business areas. a unit that reports directly to the management board is in charge of
                       monitoring and coordinating the risk management process at head office. it also determines and describes the
                       group’s overall risk situation.
                         risk management is integrated in the existing planning, controlling as well as information systems and cov-
                       ers all companies in the leoni group worldwide. the group-wide internal control system and the compliance
                       management system also complement the risk management system.


                       risk identification and assessment the primary instrument for identifying and assessing risk comprises
                       the risk workshops that are held once a year for the divisions and the holding company, during which the
                       inventory of risks of the divisions and of the group is updated, a training session is held and the likely range of
                       fluctuation in market risks is estimated for the aggregate statement. prior to these events, the corporate risk
                       manager and the responsible area risk manager conduct separate interviews with the operations managers
                       for each business group/unit of the two divisions.

                                                                                                                      | group management report      |   99

                                                                                                                       risk and opportunity report




the responsibility for indentifying, assessing and dealing with risk always remains with the respective owner.
dealing with risk is prioritised by the maximum possible loss. insurance solutions, so far as they are commer-
cially viable, play a large part in this respect. as soon as a risk-minimising measure has been implemented, the
potential maximum loss is reduced by this factor.


risk monitoring and reporting via the risk reporting system, an assessment of the risk situation is made per
quarter and discussed with the management board. the change in the value-at-risk for the budget year serves
as the overall indicator. this information and the twelve most significant (top 12) risks are presented to the
management board and the supervisory board on an annual basis. in the risk management of the divisions,
risk reporting is carried out with the help of a risk reporting sheet at least quarterly at the business group lev-
el. the focus here is on the top 10 risks per division and the top 12 risks at group level. the risks reported in
the divisions using the risk reporting sheet are verified by the risk management of the divisions and entered
on a central risk database on a quarterly basis as well as updated with any risk reduction that has taken place
as a result of initiated countermeasures.


the management board receives a quarterly risk report with the following content:
■■   top risks per division and for the leoni group
■■   risk status and trend relative to risk-bearing capacity
■■   current risks with a potential maximum loss of more than € 500,000
■■   compliance status of the leoni group
■■   status of the leoni group’s internal control system


the quarterly risk report for the respective fourth quarter is replaced by the report on risk aggregation and
the findings of the risk workshops. the risk aggregation takes place immediately after the workshops and is
reported to the management board and to the supervisory board. in addition to the ongoing reporting, there
is also the option of ad-hoc risk reporting.


process improvement on the corporate risk management committee, the corporate legal affairs, corpo-
rate internal audit, corporate finance (incl. insurance), corporate tax, corporate information management,
corporate information security, corporate controlling & accounting departments and the divisional risk
managers exchange information, under the chairmanship of the corporate risk officer, with the management
board. the agenda items include process improvement and ensuring the effectiveness of the risk manage-
ment system. the effectiveness of the risk management system is assessed once a year by the audit commit-
tee and the auditors as well as every three years by the internal audit department and outside experts.


in 2014, we successfully subjected the risk management system of leoni ag to an external audit of its fun-
damental suitability as well as effectiveness and boosted our risk workshops with the addition of outside risk
management experts. some of the resulting recommendations for action have already been implemented.
we plan to implement the remaining recommendations in 2015. we also launched a project to implement grc
(governance, risk and compliance) software, which will be integrated in our standard erm (enterprise resource
management) and controlling system.

100 |   www.leoni.com




                        opportunity management system

                        the identification, awareness and exploitation of opportunities of the leoni group is managed on a decen-
                        tralised basis under operations management. forming the basis for this is the target agreement and strategy
                        process originating from the management board. outside forecasts and market analyses also support oppor-
                        tunity management. it is integrated in the risk management and controlling process at the respective business
                        group/unit levels as well as in the principal projects of the wiring systems division.


                        reporting the documentation is prepared by our operational managers on the basis of a risk/opportuni-
                        ty comparison by our operational managers per business group/unit as well as for significant projects and
                        condensed for the management board and the supervisory board in an aggregate statement, for which we
                        make use of what is known as monte carlo simulation. a quarterly opportunities report will for this purpose
                        be integrated in our risk management system in 2015.


                        process improvement process improvement for the opportunity management system occurs via the risk
                        management system.



                        internal control system

                        the task of leoni ag’s internal control system is to document the group-wide controls pertaining the princi-
                        pal process risks, to fulfil the legal obligations stemming from the 8th eu directive and their implementation
                        in the german act on the modernisation of accounting law (bilmog) as well as to identify weaknesses in the
                        control system.
                          the operational and organisational structure of the internal control system is, at leoni, divided into four
                        local control levels (corporate departments, divisions, business groups/units and local companies) and a
                        corporate documentation level, which is integrated in the risk management system. the locally executed
                        manual and it-supported controls are documented in risk management at the corporate level as part of a
                        control self-assessment (csa) process. our control processes are not limited to just accounting-related risks,
                        but also encompass operating and compliance controls. the corporate internal control committee, which is
                        composed of the persons responsible for control at the respective head offices and the control level manag-
                        ers, carries out audits of all control matters and processes involving the internal control system with respect
                        to being up to date, complete and effective. the control level managers support the process and the persons
                        responsible for control.


                        reporting reporting is done quarterly on the corporate internal control committee and via the quarterly
                        risk report to the entire management board. the csas submitted by operating management form the basis of
                        the reporting.

                                                                                                                 | group management report      |   101

                                                                                                                  risk and opportunity report




process improvement the audit committee examines the internal control system’s effectiveness once a
year. this may involve the auditors presenting weaknesses in the internal control systems found during the
annual audit. furthermore, the internal audit department checks on a random basis whether the internal
controls at the four business levels are being carried out. recommendations for action that arose from the
external audit carried out in 2012 on implementation of the legal requirements to have an operational and
accounting-related control system that is fit for purpose were in their key points implemented.



internal control and risk management system
with respect to the accounting process
leoni ag’s internal control system comprises the principles, methods and measures introduced by the com-
pany’s management concerning

■■   ensuring the effectiveness and profitability of the business activity
■■   the correctness and reliability of both internal and external accounting as well as
■■   adherence to the legal requirements material to the company.


the risk management system comprises the totality of all organisational rules and measures to indentify risk
and for dealing with the risks associated with entrepreneurial activity. with respect to the group accounting
process, the following structures and processes have been implemented in the group: the management
board bears overall responsibility for the internal control and risk management system with respect to the
accounting process in the group. all strategic business segments and units are bound by a firmly defined
management and reporting organisation. the principles, the operational and organisational structure as well
as the processes of the accounting-related internal control and risk management system are laid down in
an internal guideline that is updated at regular intervals to include the latest external and in-house devel-
opments. with respect to the accounting process we deem such features of the internal control and risk
management system to be significant that could materially influence the accounting and overall information
provided in the financial statements and consolidated financial statements including the management report
and the group management report. in particular, this involves the following elements:

■■   identification of key areas of risk and control of relevance to the accounting process
■■   monitoring controls for supervising the accounting process and their findings at the level of the manage-
     ment board and of the strategic business areas
■■   preventive control measures in financial management and accounting as well as in operating perfor-
     mance-related business processes, the principal information for preparing the financial statements and
     consolidated financial statements including the management report and the group management report,
     including function separation and predefined approval processes in relevant units
■■   measures that ensure proper it-supported processing of accounting-related facts and data
■■   measures for monitoring the accounting-related internal control and risk management system.

102 |   www.leoni.com




                        compliance management system

                        the corporate compliance management system is geared towards prevention in the principal fields of compli-
                        ance in order to adhere to legal requirements and the company’s own guidelines. the principal compliance
                        fields include: competition law, export control, prevention of corruption, code of ethics / social charta, the
                        tread act (duty to report recalls to the us authorities), information security / data protection, taxes and capital
                        market law (bafin).


                        elearning to further underscore the code of ethics / social charta and anti-corruption compliance fields,
                        leoni joined the united nations global compact in 2011. the objective is for this compliance standard also
                        to be applied externally vis-à-vis our customers and suppliers. further information on this is contained in the
                        sustainability report as well as in the un global compact index. it is the duty of the compliance field manag-
                        ers to update the internal guidelines and to convey this in annual training sessions. furthermore, as experts
                        they are the contacts with respect to all questions arising about their compliance field.
                          all operational managers and pertinent staff worldwide regularly participate in training courses on compli-
                        ance. in 2014 there were elearning training courses on the compliance fields of code of ethics / social charta,
                        export control, information security and data protection. we currently teach up to 12,500 employees in up to
                        fifteen languages. the associated internal guidelines are available in up to twenty languages.


                        reporting the persons responsible for risk management are also responsible for compliance. there is also
                        quarterly compliance reporting in line with the risk reporting. each of the eight aforementioned compliance
                        fields has one compliance field manager in charge. automated compliance tests by means of self-checks and a
                        personal undertaking to be submitted by each manager once a year provide compliance with additional safe-
                        guards. the scope of our self-check is determined in consultation with the compliance manager. the status of
                        checks is presented and other process improvements are agreed on the corporate compliance committees.


                        process improvement the compliance field managers meet quarterly on the corporate compliance commit-
                        tee and also serve to ensure that our compliance management system is continually improved. potential for
                        improvement found in the 2011 external audit concerning the structure, appropriateness and effectiveness of
                        compliance was implemented in the points of significance to leoni. in 2014 we issued a new guideline for the
                        compliance field of prevention of corruption to focus even more sharply on this topic. a regional compliance
                        officer was appointed for each of the regions in which leoni operates.

                                                                                                                      | group management report      |   103

                                                                                                                       risk and opportunity report




presentation of the principal risks and opportunities

the risks to and opportunities for the leoni group are broken down by the classes of strategic risks/oppor-
tunities and market risks/opportunities, operational risks/opportunities, financial risks/opportunities and
compliance risks/opportunities. the principal risks (top 12) and opportunities are presented below.


strategic risks and market risks
we encounter strategic risks and market risks mainly in the areas of

■■   price pressure / fluctuation
■■   procurement market risks
■■   threat to market position and competitive advantages
■■   market trends / fluctuation in sales
■■   location / country risks
■■   market appeal
■■   competitive forces
■■   strategy / organisation / core skills.


the four principal risks are:


economic slump customers in the automotive industry and among its suppliers account for about 75 percent
of leoni’s consolidated sales. the current business performance of this sector therefore has great influence
on leoni’s business volume and earnings. leoni has accordingly prepared for any cyclical slump in sales by
making its cost structure even more flexible.


pressure to cut prices leoni supplies its products to markets that are characterised by fierce competition.
the trend prevailing in the automotive industry towards sharing development costs with suppliers also
continues to affect leoni. we confront the unabatedly heavy pressure on prices in the automotive industry
with effective, stringent cost management in all areas of our company, setting up more production facilities in
low-wage countries and resolutely optimising purchasing prices.


copper price fluctuation leoni uses copper in all of its business segments. the global market price of this
raw material, which is subject to substantial fluctuation, therefore exerts a major influence on the cost of ma-
terials in the group. if the price of copper rises for a protracted period of time, the lag in passing this cost on
to our customers can exert an adverse earnings effect on the reporting date. any substantial drop in demand
could, if there is a simultaneous dip in the price of copper, lead to us having to sell at lower prices some of our
copper inventory bought forward at higher prices. this would likewise exert an adverse effect on earnings. if
the price has fallen sharply up to the reporting date, copper inventories may be exposed to the risk of devalua-
tion. a shortage of copper stocks could lead to supply bottlenecks and higher copper prices. leoni prefers
long-term and direct supply relationships with copper suppliers to avoid supply bottlenecks.

104 |   www.leoni.com




                        fluctuation in the cost of materials contact systems, which consist of plastic casings and metal contacts,
                        are made mostly with tools stemming from a single source due either to customer requirements or economic
                        considerations. rising demand could lead to increases in the costs of our most important raw materials. this
                        can result in demands for higher prices and therefore in increased procurement costs for the corresponding
                        components, and can furthermore cause supply bottlenecks in the event of shortages. international competi-
                        tion among our suppliers has hitherto enabled us to largely avoid any increases in the cost of materials.


                        strategic opportunities and market opportunities


                        globalisation, innovation, systems business and cost leadership thanks to its strategic alignment, the
                        leoni group has the opportunity to benefit more substantially and more quickly from outside developments,
                        i.e. to expand its market position on a long-term basis and to raise its profitability. the primary approaches to
                        this involve the four levers of our strategy: by further globalising its operations, leoni can better exploit the
                        opportunities in the americas as well as asia and increasingly internationalise its industrial business, which
                        is still quite european in nature. enhancing the power of innovation provides the opportunity to improve
                        our market position on the one hand with new products and solutions and, on the other hand, by ongoing
                        optimisation of our processes. the systems business lever harbours potential in terms of gearing our range of
                        manufacture even more closely to customer requirements. raising the efficiency of our production structures
                        and process entails the opportunity to achieve additional cost benefit and thereby to increase profitability.


                        the economic cycle generally speaking, leoni has the opportunity to generate more sales than expected in
                        the markets it targets by outperforming the overall market and correspondingly rising demand. this applies
                        especially to the americas and asia. should, for example, the automotive markets in these countries grow
                        more strongly, leoni could benefit via both direct shipments to these regions and indirectly by supplying
                        product for cars exported from europe.


                        commodity prices a more favourable trend in commodity prices would benefit leoni’s cost-of-materials ratio
                        and therefore its margins.


                        electromobility, green technology and alternative energy generation new trends in technology and so-
                        ciety also present leoni with growth opportunities – for instance the growing interest in hybrid and electric
                        drive systems as well as electrical and electronic innovations in vehicles. green technology and energy saving
                        are also playing an ever larger role in virtually all of the other sectors of importance to leoni. in china and
                        india, for example, we see mounting potential for alternative energy generation using solar and wind power
                        plant as well as for railway engineering. in general, the key global trends – of mobility, urbanisation, environ-
                        mental awareness and shortage of resources, demographic change, globalisation as well as industrialisation
                        and automation – present leoni with additional expansion opportunities in many areas.

                                                                                                                   | group management report      |   105

                                                                                                                    risk and opportunity report




operational risks
we face operational risks mainly in the areas of
■■   production
■■   purchasing / logistics
■■   human resources
■■   project management
■■   research / development
■■   distribution
■■   information management


the six principal risks are:


break in the supply chain to our customers the leoni group had a total of 82 facilities in 31 countries in
2014. policy on choice of location is geared closely to the requirements of our customers, which leoni follows
into foreign markets. the constant pressure on prices and costs compels us towards disproportionately large
increases in production capacity located in low-wage countries. this means that customers in many instances
have to be supplied across several national boundaries. there are also political risks in some countries, for
example in north africa and the ukraine. difficult political situations could at any time result in unrest and
also strikes at our production facilities in those locations, or in closed seaports and airports. the option of
temporary supply from production facilities in other, non-affected countries is severely limited because of the
customised products in the wiring systems division. just-in-time delivery and the single-source principle of
some customers extend the reach of this risk further. relocation is possible only with a corresponding lead
time necessitated by setting up the required production capacity and recruitment. that is why we offer our
customers the option of supply from two facilities in different countries. in many cases, however, our custom-
ers have decided for economic reasons to continue to share the risk of 100 percent supply from one country.
a break in the supply chain to our customers, due for example to unrest, cybercrime or natural disasters, could
result in a supply bottleneck persisting several weeks. owing to the size it has attained, leoni operates a con-
siderable number of production facilities worldwide, which have backup capacity as is prudent and accepted
by the carmakers. furthermore, preventive measures have been applied at all production facilities and are
documented in a global emergency plan. these range from a round-the-clock guard service to extensive fire
protection systems. furthermore, no leoni facility is located in an area known to be under serious threat of
earthquakes, flooding or other natural disasters.


start-up and project costs we successfully started making a large number of new product start-ups in the
2014 financial year. however, the simultaneous production start in asia and the americas of wiring systems for
a german premium car model resulted in an unexpectedly heavy demand for staff, high reject rates and addi-
tional airfreight costs, which squeezed earnings in the third quarter. expansion of our production capacity for

106 |   www.leoni.com




                        our customers’ new model ranges is now progressing according to plan again. should we fail to ensure that
                        production starts on schedule and according to the requirements of our customers, this could have serious
                        consequences for future business and incur heavy exceptional costs. to minimise this risk, we enhanced our
                        project management for such large projects by setting it up as a separate organisational unit within the wir-
                        ing systems division. ongoing monitoring ensures that start-up risks are identified and that countermeasures
                        can be applied.


                        information management running a company like leoni that operates on a global scale is only possible
                        with the help of sophisticated it systems. constant readiness to supply goods and services – especially to the
                        automotive industry that frequently calls for either just-in-time or just-in-sequence delivery – also depends
                        on the it systems and their data being available at all times. serious disruption such as system outages,
                        attacks on our networks, loss or corrupting of data could threaten leoni’s ability to supply, temporarily
                        stop customers’ production and hence result in having to face far-reaching claims for compensation. leoni
                        therefore constantly works at optimising its it systems, in terms of both concept and operation. one example
                        of this is having a second, backup computer centre as an emergency system. an information security and data
                        protection officer who reports directly to the management board demonstrates the very high priority given
                        to security of our information systems and networks, as well as to safeguarding the confidentiality, availability
                        and dependability of our data.


                        product liability / recall leoni’s output is used primarily for technically sophisticated products and equip-
                        ment with high safety standards. a failure could have far-reaching consequences ranging from downtime
                        costs to contractual penalties and through to personal injury claims. we minimise the associated product
                        liability risks by taking effective measures as part of process safety and quality management. all plants are
                        iso 9001 certified and some, depending on the customer group they supply, have additional iso/ts 16949
                        (automotive industry), en 9100 (aerospace) or iso 13485 (medical technology) certification. some plants also
                        have an environmental management system certified to iso 14001. there is also insurance cover for operat-
                        ing, product and environmental liability as well as for product recalls. product liability cases and recalls are
                        reported without delay, by means of a red alert process that has been set up, to all concerned units so that
                        countermeasures can be applied immediately.


                        loss of a customer the loss of a major customer we supply could temporarily result in losses of earnings /
                        contributions to profit and additional capacity adjustment costs. we have reduced our exposure to a small
                        number of major customers in the wiring systems division with a broader, international customer base. the
                        lengthy contract periods, which usually cover the lifespan of a particular vehicle model range, and having

                                                                                                                    | group management report      |   107

                                                                                                                     risk and opportunity report




established very close and stable customer-supplier relationships, for instance by way of comprehensive de-
velopment work and outstanding service in terms of delivery, mean that there would be early notice of losing
a customer and would allow for consequent measures to be applied in good time.


fluctuation in personnel costs the growing shortage of skilled professionals in germany, changes in the
availability of personnel and the resulting rise in wage and salary costs at labour-intensive production loca-
tions in eastern europe, north africa and asia present human resource management with particular chal-
lenges. in addition there is the large extent of production in countries with low wage levels. effort has been
stepped up to increase staff advancement – for example with internal programmes to provide employees with
further qualifications and aimed at integration as well as offering a wide range of social benefits – to maintain
the ability to recruit and tie staff as an attractive employer. for our travelling and seconded staff members we
have enhanced an existing care insurance policy to include further medical and security-relevant benefits. for
example, evacuation in the event of unrest as in north africa and the ukraine or a natural disaster would be
handled by an international service provider.


operational opportunities
the leoni group’s operating strengths include its leading position in the most important markets across
europe, our global footprint in terms of distribution, development and production as well as our broad,
international customer base. these factors enable us, as the case may be, to benefit globally from favoura-
ble market trends. leoni also focuses sharply on core products and markets, has a consistently high level of
expertise along the entire value chain and covers an extensive portfolio of technology. finally, the collabora-
tion between our two business divisions in the context of a complementary value chain creates synergies that
provide leoni with opportunity not only to reduce costs, but also to expand.
  for example, the broadening of business with new customers and the further expansion of our best-in-class
production network, through which we can improve our position as cost leader and a global player, provide
the wiring systems division with good opportunity to outperform expectations. extension of the value crea-
tion chain in the areas of new wiring system architectures and integration of electromechanical components
provides additional earning potential. in the wire & cable solutions division, product, material and technol-
ogy innovations above all in the fields of halogen-free and flame-retardant cables, miniaturisation as well as
fiber optic and high frequency cables present opportunity for market share gains. stepped-up involvement
in the markets for renewable energy – especially in the hydro, wind and solar industries – as well as mobility,
advanced manufacturing, medical technology and sensor systems provide the opportunity to participate
more significantly in their projected growth.

108 |   www.leoni.com




                        financial risks
                        we face financial risks mainly in the areas of
                        ■■   currency and interest risks
                        ■■   risk of bad debt losses
                        ■■   borrowing
                        ■■   liquidity risks
                        ■■   m&a / impairment risks


                        the three principal risks are:


                        bad debt / liquidity the default of a large customer on debt could exert a considerable adverse effect on
                        net income. as a precaution, all customers with whom the leoni group intends to conclude business on a
                        credit basis are subject to credit screening. regular analysis of receivables and the structure of the receivables
                        facilitates ongoing monitoring of the risk. factoring, or true sale factoring for selected customers, serves as a
                        further tool to reduce the risk of default.
                             to back its plans for growth leoni uses, alongside the existing, long-term borrower’s note loans, ample
                        short and long-term loan commitments from banks, mainly in the form of conventional lines of credit. in
                        addition, stringent cash pooling is used to safeguard liquidity. the most important cash flows in the group are
                        managed and handled by leoni ag at head office. if, in the event of a crisis for example, the in-house rating
                        of our core banks for leoni were to drop below investment grade, this would probably mean increased cost
                        on any required loans, which might not be provided in the desired amount. the group monitors its current
                        liquidity situation on a daily basis. monthly, currency-specific, rolling liquidity planning for respective periods
                        of 12 months is used to manage future liquidity requirement. the planning takes into consideration the terms
                        of the finance and the financial assets (e.g. receivables, other financial assets) as well as the expected cash
                        flows from business activity.


                        impairment risks leoni subjects assets and goodwill to impairment testing based on the ifrs accounting
                        rules. an increase in the discount rate and/or worsening of earning prospects will cause the risk of impairment
                        to rise.

                                                                                                                        | group management report      |   109

                                                                                                                         risk and opportunity report




currency risks we conduct business mainly in euros or in the local currency of the respective country.
however, we are increasingly faced with currency risks due to the globalisation of the markets. in the group’s
holding company, leoni ag, the corporate finance department deals with forex-related risks in collabo-
ration with a currency committee. hedging transactions are executed in line with the existing underlying
transactions or the planned transactions. selection of the hedging instrument to be used is based on regular,
in-depth analysis of the underlying transaction to be hedged. the objective is to limit the impact of exchange
rate variation on net income. apart from the actual hedging transactions, we primarily take advantage of the
option of netting foreign currency items within the group to hedge our operating business activity. as a fur-
ther currency-hedging measure, as a matter of principle we finance our foreign subsidiaries in their respective
functional currencies by way of refinancing in the corresponding currency.
     further details on these financial risks are contained in the notes.


compliance risks
we face compliance risks mainly in the areas of
■■   capital market law
■■   tax law
■■   competition law
■■   product liability and recall risks
■■   environmental risks
■■   corruption / fraud
■■   leoni code of ethics / social charta
■■   information security / data protection


any infringements could entail substantial fines, loss of reputation, claims for damages and, depending on the
country, also imprisonment of managers. the two principal risks are:


competition law as reported, several civil proceedings in the form of class action lawsuits have been
initiated against leoni and other wiring systems manufacturers that operate internationally due to alleged
breaches of competition law in the united states and canada since october 2011. leoni continues to defend
itself and still believes that it will be able to refute the allegations and to bring the proceedings to a successful
conclusion.


export control any tightening of embargoes could stop shipments under signed contracts. this could entail
loss of sales and bad debt.

110 |   www.leoni.com




                        the management board’s assessment of the overall situation
                        in the management board’s opinion the risk situation for the leoni group did not materially change in 2014.
                        the biggest risk continues to be any disruption in our ability to supply to the automotive manufacturers. the
                        presentation below provides an overview in table format of the principal individual risks to leoni, the likeli-
                        hood that they might occur and the potential maximum financial loss. in our assessment there are no other
                        significant risks. overall, the risks to the leoni group described above are, from today’s perspective, manage-
                        able and do not threaten the company’s continued existence.


                        the most significant individual risks to leoni

                        risks                                                  potential maximum financial loss 1                              probability of occurrence 2

                        break in the supply chain to our customers                                                                                     less probable

                                                                                               critical
                        economic slump (crisis)                                                                                                            possible



                        compliance breaches                                                                                                            less probable



                        bad debt (crisis)



                        start-up and project costs
                                                                                             noticeable                                                    possible

                        impairment (crisis)



                        copper price fluctuation



                        loss of a customer
                                                                                                                                                       less probable

                        product liability and recall



                        pressure to cut prices
                                                                                               minor


                        currency fluctuation                                                                                                               possible



                        fluctuation in personnel costs

                                                                     1
                                                                         minor: net income may be slightly diminished            2
                                                                                                                                     less probable: once in 10-50 years
                                                                         noticeable: net income may be considerably diminished       possible: once in 1-10 years
                                                                         critical: net income may be wholly absorbed

                                                                                                                         | group management report      |   111

                                                                                                                          risk and opportunity report




swot analysis


company-specific                                        market-specific


strengths                                               opportunities
leading position in europe‘s core markets               sustained, stable car market growth worldwide over medium term


strong international footprint with distribution,       market growth in asia and the americas
development and production

continuous expertise along the entire value chain and   technological change towards hybrid and e-drive
a wide range of technologies

broad, international customer base                      innovation in electrical systems and electronics in vehicle
                                                        manufacturing

high proportion of production in low-cost countries     trend towards green technology and energy saving


clear focus on core products and core markets           expansion of system business


short decision-making channels and flat hierarchies     expansion of industrial business




weaknesses                                              threats
still small share of the indian and brazilian markets   heavy pressure on prices from the oems


heavy exposure of non-automotive business to europe     rise in commodity prices


                                                        rising wages in low-cost countries


                                                        political risks in low-cost countries


                                                        intensifying competition and mounting competitive pressure

112 |   www.leoni.com




                        supplementary report
                        there were no events of special significance and with material impact on the leoni group’s earnings, financial
                        and asset situation occurring after close of the financial year and until this report was signed.




                        forecast

                        business and underlying conditions

                        macroeconomic setting
                        in the view of the international monetary fund (imf), the prospects for the global economy became some-
                        what less favourable at the beginning of this year. the imf therefore in january revised its forecast for global
                        economic growth in 2015 to 3.5 percent, having still projected a rate of 3.8 percent in october 2014. although
                        the decline in the price of oil and the robust us economy are providing positive impetus, this will probably
                        be more than cancelled out by weaker-than-expected economic growth in china, russia, japan and the euro-
                        zone, which is likely to result in less capital investment. the imf says that other risks stem from the persistent-
                        ly volatile financial markets especially in many emerging countries as well as stagnation and low inflation in
                        japan and the eurozone.
                           overall in 2015, economic output is forecast to rise by 2.4 percent in the industrialised countries and by
                        4.3 percent in the emerging countries. an increase of 1.3 percent is estimated for germany, 0.2 of a percentage
                        point less than previously anticipated.


                        world economic growth 2013 to 2015			                                                                              %




                                                                                                        2013                             3.3

                                                                                                        2014                             3.3

                                                                                                        2015                             3.5

                        source: iwf

                                                                                                                        | group management report   |   113

                                                                                                                         supplementary report
                                                                                                                         forecast




economic growth 2015 in selected regions                                                   		%

   china                                                                                                          6.8

    india                                                                                                         6.3

     usa                                                                                                          3.6

eurozone                                                                                                          1.2

   japan                                                                                                          0.6

    brazil                                                                                                        0.3

   russia                                                                                                       (3.0)

source: iwf



sector trend
despite the more difficult underlying condition, the uptrend in most of the sectors of importance to leoni
is likely to continue in 2015. according to ihs automotive estimates, the automotive industry will again
increase its output this year, namely by 3 percent or so to more than 90 million passenger cars and light com-
mercial vehicles. from today’s perspective, there will be increases in both the americas and asia as well as in
the emea region.
   the commercial vehicle industry likewise projects growth: ihs automotive says that just over 2 percent
more heavy commercial vehicles will be manufactured in 2015 than in the previous year, with rises in europe
and the americas offsetting a slight decrease in asia, especially so in china.


production of cars and light commercial vehicles (lcvs) by regions                 2014e       2015e    million units

                     asia                                                                                       44.4
                                                                                                                46.6

                   emea                                                                                         21.9
                                                                                                                22.3

                americas                                                                                        20.9
                                                                                                                21.3

source: ihs automotive




heavy commercial vehicles production in selected regions                           2014e       2015e    million units

                     asia                                                                                       2.04
                                                                                                                2.03

                   emea                                                                                         0.50
                                                                                                                0.53

                americas                                                                                        0.67
                                                                                                                0.73

source: ihs automotive

114 |   www.leoni.com




                        according to the zvei sector association for the german electrical and electronics industry, output in 2015
                        will be up by 1.5 percent on a price-adjusted basis despite the less favourable economic conditions.
                          the mechanical engineering sector also expects further expansion, but does draw attention to such still
                        prevailing risks as the russia/ukraine crisis, sluggish reform in france and italy as well as growth-inhibiting
                        legislation in germany. the sector’s vdma federation estimates that its worldwide sales will increase by
                        5 percent in 2015. based on order receipts to date, sales in germany are projected to rise by 3 percent with a
                        2 percent increase in output.
                          the german information technology sector is also projected to remain on a growth course. the bitkom
                        sector association forecasts sales of software, it services and it hardware will increase by 2.4 percent. this is
                        due to strong rises in business involving software and it services, while demand for hardware is expected to
                        decline.
                          the medical technology industry has embarked on 2015 with mixed feelings. although the spectaris
                        sector association expects considerable increases again in the medium-term following last year’s moderate
                        growth, it does not anticipate any significant improvement yet this year.



                        business performance and future direction

                        the leoni group’s business performance
                        on the whole, our business performed in line with expectations in the first few weeks of this year. for fiscal
                        2015 as a whole, the management board of leoni ag projects an increase in consolidated sales to about
                        € 4.3 billion, to which both divisions will contribute. business will probably grow more so in the americas and
                        asia/pacific, but also in the emea region.
                          growth in consolidated ebit is again expected to outpace that in sales with a rise to more than € 200
                        million in 2015, which would equate to an improvement in the ebit margin to 4.7 percent. this is based on the
                        larger amount of business and efficiency gains in both divisions.
                          this forecast is based on the following assumptions: the most significant customer groups, above all the
                        automotive industry, will on the whole perform well according to the statements of the sector associations.
                        we expect the price of copper to remain steady. we budgeted for increases in personnel costs that differ by
                        particular country, based on our experience in the individual regions.
                          the target set as part of our medium-term planning is unchanged: we expect a moderate uptrend this year
                        to be followed in 2016 by another growth surge with consolidated sales then rising to € 5 billion and the ebit
                        margin widening to 7 percent. from today’s perspective, we will benefit on the one hand from the new prod-
                        ucts that the wiring systems division began making in 2014 and 2015, which will then generate considerable
                        contributions to sales and earnings. on the other hand, the wire & cable solutions division will continue to
                        expand in tandem with the automotive industry as well as the other industrial sectors of strategic importance
                        and improve its profitability thanks to the strategic initiatives it has launched.
                          there will be no fundamental change to leoni’s business policy in the next two years. the same applies to
                        our dividend policy, which continues to provide for a payout of about one third of annual net income.

                                                                                                                     | group management report   |   115

                                                                                                                      forecast




performance of the wiring systems division
in the wiring systems division, external sales are forecast to increase slightly to approx. € 2.45 billion in 2015
(previous year: € 2.4 billion) with earnings before interest and taxes rising to more than € 115 million (previ-
ous year: € 104.6 million). numerous new and follow-on projects, which will not contribute fully to sales and
earnings before 2016, will again be ramped up this year. major exceptional expenses, which weighed on fiscal
2014 ebit, are from today’s perspective unlikely in 2015.
  at the beginning of january, the wiring systems division obtained its first order for wiring systems from the
south korean carmaker hyundai: from 2016, we will be supplying product for a mid-market car of currently
the world’s fourth-largest automobile maker, which will be manufactured in eastern europe. this will boost
our international business and further strengthen our global market position.
  capacity will be enlarged in all of the production regions of importance to us and our production network
will be constantly optimised to master the orders already on the books. in 2015, we plan to commission our
first plant in paraguay, which will manufacture cable harnesses and wiring systems for the car and commercial
vehicle industry.
  we also intend to further enlarge our range of products and services in the segments involving electrome-
chanical components as well as weight-saving solutions, for example through increasing use of aluminium,
to bolster our position as a systems partner to the international motor vehicle industry.


performance of the wire & cable solutions division
the external sales of the wire & cable solutions division will probably rise to about € 1.85 billion in 2015
(previous year: € 1.7 billion) with earnings before interest and taxes rising to more than € 85 million (previous
year: € 78.1 million). all business groups are expected to underpin the sales growth, especially so our core
automotive cables business as well as the businesses comprising cables and services for industrial applications
and medical technology.
  in regional terms, the growth will, from today’s perspective, occur mainly in asia and the americas, while
sales in the emea countries will on the whole remain more or less steady. the proportions of sales account-
ed for by asia/pacific and the americas are in the process likely to rise to about 23 percent and 22 percent,
respectively. two new automotive cable plants, one in mexico and one in china, which are to start operating
this year, will underpin the increases budgeted for these regions, for which more capital investment is also
planned. we are, furthermore and in the context of the strategic lever of globalisation, looking into broaden-
ing our involvement to other countries. a larger-scale capital investment project is also pending in germany:
in roth, we are starting the preparatory work for building the ‘factory of the future’, a modern facility for de-
veloping and manufacturing high-quality cables and conductors that will meet the latest standards in terms
of technology and factory architecture.
  we intend likewise to enhance our systems expertise and are therefore, for example, broadening our range
of products and services with solutions for electromobility, the railway industry and medical technology.
  in terms of earnings, the wcs division will benefit from the increased degree of capacity utilisation and the
growing proportion of complex products. in addition there will be efficiency enhancements stemming from
such strategy projects on operational excellence and business process harmonisation as the division-wide,
standardised it system, preparations for rollout of which in 2015 are underway at several facilities. the wcs
on excellence performance programme, which aims to generate additional earning potential in the areas of
sales, purchasing, organisation and production, is likely to yield initial benefits.

116 |   www.leoni.com




                        capital expenditure
                        the leoni group intends to increase its spending on property, plant and equipment as well as intangible
                        assets to about € 240 million in 2015. of this total, about 30 percent will probably be spent in germany; a
                        quarter or more in eastern europe, approximately 17 percent in asia, 10 percent in each of north africa and
                        the americas, with the remainder (8 percent) spread among other european countries.
                          the wiring systems division will increase its capital expenditure to about € 150 million and will expand its
                        capacity worldwide because of the good order situation. plant extension work is pending particularly in china,
                        central america, north africa and eastern europe. in addition, a new facility will be set up in paraguay. further
                        extension and rebuilding of the division’s headquarter in kitzingen is also planned.
                          in the wire & cable solutions division, capex is budgeted to rise to about € 80 million in 2015 and to go
                        towards worldwide expansion of capacity. the focus is on business group automotive cables, which will build
                        two new plants, one in china and the other in mexico, and will also expand its capacity to produce automotive
                        cables at other locations around the globe.
                          the holding company will, from today’s perspective, invest about € 10 million, most of which accounted for
                        it projects.


                        financial and asset situation
                        leoni’s financial and asset situation will again present a solid picture in 2015. given the existing long-term
                        finance, the extensive credit lines and the expected net income, our liquidity is assured on a lasting basis. the
                        maturing financial liabilities will be refinanced on schedule. we may take advantage of the currently favoura-
                        ble market setting for further measures.
                          due to the larger amount of cash provided by operating activities, cash flow is likely to reach a roughly neu-
                        tral level this year despite the once again larger amount budgeted for capital expenditure. based primarily on
                        the higher ebit, we estimate an improvement in the roce to approximately 14 percent, while we expect net
                        financial liabilities to rise to approx. € 360 million. equity is again likely to increase thanks to the expected net
                        income, meaning that the equity ratio will, from today’s perspective, rise slightly to more than 35 percent.


                        procurement
                        purchased raw materials and components will again be of major significance to leoni in 2015. the wcs
                        division will therefore, in the context of its ‘wcs on excellence’ performance project, further improve and
                        globalise its procurement activity and organisation. in the wiring systems division, the global activity that has
                        been started will be continued and, in particular, local expertise in asia and the americas will be enhanced.


                        employees
                        the number of employees in the leoni group will probably increase moderately this year. the wiring systems
                        division will enlarge its workforce especially at new facilities and those expanded for project start-ups in asia,
                        the americas and eastern europe, while it will reduce the numbers at other plants as a result of productivity
                        progress. the wcs division will recruit new staff above all in the growth markets of china and india as well as,
                        to a lesser extent, in mexico and various european countries, also including germany.

                                                                                                                          | group management report   |   117

                                                                                                                           forecast




research & development
our r&d work will continue at a high level in 2015. there will not be any significant change in the focal areas
of our development work. in the wire & cable solutions division, we will focus, among other areas, on halo-
gen-free cables for automotive applications, data cables for high transfer rates and compounds for specific,
local market requirements in growth regions. we furthermore intend to broaden our systems expertise,
especially so in the medical technology sector. the wiring systems division will increasingly globalise its r&d
activity and likewise enhance its systems expertise in the areas, among others, of components and wiring
system architecture.


sustainability
we will extend our sustainability management in 2015 because of the increasing importance of corporate
responsibility also for our customers. among other things, the wiring systems division plans to include
more facilities in occupational safety and environmental certification, to raise energy efficiency and to build
improved regional she structures. the wcs division intends to apply the kaizen methods proven in
other areas to improvement measures with respect to occupational health and safety. there are also plans to
broaden ergonomic work-shift times and models. the holding company’s agenda includes optimisation with
respect to first aid as well as fire protection. in mid 2015, leoni will furthermore release its third un global
compact communication on progress and thereby provide information on its latest developments in the area
of sustainability.


general statement on future growth
the management board is confident about leoni ag’s future performance. given the favourable order situa-
tion in both divisions as well as the ongoing measures towards globalisation and efficiency enhancement, we
are well equipped for the planned, ongoing, earnings-oriented growth. for 2015 we project a moderate sales
gain to approximately € 4.3 billion and an earnings increase to more than € 200 million. due to the numer-
ous new projects pending in the wiring systems division and the further globalisation, we will once again
substantially increase our capital investment in 2015. the financial basis for doing so is still solid. gearing
(financial liabilities divided by equity) should remain well below the upper limit of 50 percent that we have set.
   we still anticipate a significant upsurge in sales to € 5 billion in 2016, which, together with major efficiency
gains, will also lead to a strong earnings increase and to a 7 percent ebit margin.


the leoni group’s targets
                                                                                        actual 2014          planned
                                                                                            figures       2015 figures

consolidated sales                                                        € billion             4.1        approx. 4.3

ebit                                                                     € million            182.5               > 200

capital expenditure                                                      € million            215.8       approx. 240

free cash flow                                                           € million            (37.9)         approx. 0

net debt                                                                 € million            316.2       approx. 360

equity ratio                                                                    %              34.4                > 35

return on capital employed                                                      %              13.7         approx. 14

118 |   www.leoni.com




                                              compensation report
                                              this compensation report describes the main features of the system for compensating the members of the
                                              management board and explains the structure as well as the amount of individual board member income.
                                              the principles applied to and the amount of compensation for members of the supervisory board is also
                                              described.
                                                the compensation report follows the recommendations of the german corporate governance code (gcgc
                                              or code) and contains disclosures required by the german commercial code (hgb), the german accounting
                                              standard (drs) and the international financial reporting standards (ifrs).



                                              compensation of the management board

                                              the supervisory board of leoni ag diligently considers, pursuant to article 87 of the german public com-
                                              panies act, the appropriateness of the compensation for members of the management board. it does so
                                              regularly, at least once a year. this involves discussion and inclusion in the review of the individual compensa-
                                              tion components and their effect on future management board compensation. it also comprises a comparison
                                              with other dax and mdax companies as well as consideration of the wage and salary structure within the
                                              company. however, it does not consider the ratio of management board compensation to the compensation
                                              for senior management and the workforce as a whole, also over time, as provided for in section 4.2.2 (2) sen-
                  declaration of conformity   tence 3 of the code. the current declaration of conformity explains this deviation in detail.
                  ›› page 38
                                                the management board compensation system for the period under report has applied since 1 january 2010.
                                              the supervisory board decided to revise this existing system, which ended on 31 december 2014. the reason
                                              was the in any case required new version of the employment contracts for the members of the management
                                              board, but also the meanwhile implemented updates of the codes. the new compensation system was pre-
                                              sented to and approved at the annual general meeting of leoni ag on 8 may 2014. it has been in force since
                                              1 january 2015 and applies until 31 december 2019.


                                              basic principles of the compensation system valid in 2014
                                              the management board compensation system at leoni is aimed towards providing incentive for successful
                                              and long-term business growth. the intention is for the management board members to participate in a
                                              sustained increase in enterprise value. exceptional performance is to be rewarded; any failure to meet targets
                                              is to result in a considerable reduction of compensation.

                                                                                                                                  | group management report   |   119

                                                                                                                                    compensation report




the table below provides an overview of the structure and system for management board compensation:



component                    measurement basis               corridor                       precondition for payment        payment
1. fixed compensation        function, responsibility,       firmly agreed                  contractual stipulation         monthly
   fixed salary              duration of board membership,   for the term of the contract
   benefits in kind/         standard
   fringe benefits

2. short-term compensation   task, performance,              0 to 150 %                     1-year planning,                once a year
   component                 consolidated net income         [ target fully met = 100 % ]   target attainment               in the subsequent year
   annual bonus

3. medium-term               task, performance,              0 to 150 %                     3-year planning,                in the 4th year
   compensation component    consolidated net income         [ target fully met = 100 % ]   target attainment on a 3-year
   multi-year bonus                                                                         average at least 50 %

4. long-term                 task, performance,              0 up to cap,                   contractual stipulation         once a year in the subse-
   compensation component    eva and share appreciation      penalty rule                                                   quent year; 50 % of which
   bonus account                                                                                                            converted into leoni shares
                                                                                                                            with a 50-month holding
                                                                                                                            period

5. disability and other      pensionable fixed salary,       fixed amount                   retirement,                     —
   benefits                  years of service on the board                                  disability
   accrued pension rights




fixed compensation
the fixed component is a firm, annual amount of basic compensation that is paid in equal monthly instal-
ments. it is commensurate with the amounts paid by other mdax companies.


variable components


short-term compensation component – annual bonus: an annual bonus is paid depending on the net in-
come generated. it is capped at a maximum of the figure that can be attained by 150 percent plan fulfilment.
the annual bonus can drop to nil. this conforms to the requirements of both the vorstag and code.


medium-term compensation component – multi-year bonus: the multi-year bonus is geared to the net
income of the year in question measured against the earnings of a three-year period and thus conforms to
the sustainability requirement set out in both the vorstag and the code. the multi-year bonus is limited by a
corridor (0 to 150 percent). 50 % of the annual, possible total entitlement is paid in the respective subsequent
year as an instalment. the final accumulated settlement follows the three-year period and results in payment
only if the (arithmetic) average degree of target attainment for the three-year period is at least 50 percent.
if these conditions are not met, the multi-year bonus is forfeited in full; instalments already paid must be
refunded.

120 |   www.leoni.com




                        long-term compensation component: a long-term compensation component that takes adequate account
                        of the economic value added (eva) and the company’s market capitalisation is intended to further strengthen
                        sustained, positive business performance. the long-term compensation component is, for one financial year,
                        paid up to a contractually agreed cap. any excess is retained in a bonus account and serves as credit for the
                        subsequent period. if the company’s performance is negative in a financial year, this will be charged to any
                        credit in the bonus account, which can drop to nil. if the long-term compensation component for a financial
                        year does not reach the cap, it will be topped up with any credit held in the bonus account. of the amount
                        paid out, 50 percent must be invested in leoni shares that must be retained for a period of 50 months, there-
                        by conforming to the 48-month minimum holding period prescribed by the vorstag.


                        the total compensation is commensurate with that paid by other mdax companies and other companies of
                        similar size. its takes account of both good and poor performance. furthermore, the individual compensation
                        components do not tempt the management board to take inappropriate risk. an internationally recognised
                        compensation expert oversaw the preparation of the compensation structure and confirmed its conformity
                        with the legislation including the code. the supervisory board assured itself of the compensation expert’s
                        independence. in summary, it may be concluded that compensation for the members of leoni’s management
                        board meets the requirements of both the vorstag and code and is set up for sustainability.


                        pension, disability and other benefits
                        in the event of temporary work incapacity due to illness or other reasons, for which the management board
                        member is not responsible, the compensation will continue to be paid according contractual agreement for a
                        period of six up to twelve months, at most up to termination of the employment contract.
                          provided this has been agreed on the basis of an individual contract, there is a pension commitment to the
                        management board member. this commitment encompasses disability, surviving dependents’ and retirement
                        benefits. specifically, this means:
                           in the event of permanent work incapacity the management board member will receive a disability
                        pension. if the management board member dies, the widows and orphaned children will be paid pensions.
                        following the end of their 65th (or 63rd with agreed discounts) year of age, an entitlement to payment of
                        retirement benefits, which are computed according to the period of management board service and the
                        pensionable fixed salary exists. pensionable is defined as a contractually agreed proportion of the final fixed
                        salary. the pension, disability and other benefits granted to members of leoni ag’s management board are
                        also commensurate with those of other mdax companies.

                                                                                                                  | group management report   |   121

                                                                                                                   compensation report




miscellaneous
severance payments upon premature termination of management board duties in the absence of a material
reason are limited to two years’ compensation and shall not be more than the annual compensation for the
balance of the employment contract (severance cap pursuant to the code).
  in the event of a change of control, every management board member has the right to terminate for mate-
rial reason and shall be entitled to severance payment. such payment is limited to a maximum of three years’
compensation (150 percent of the severance cap pursuant to the code) and shall even in this event not exceed
the annual compensation for the balance of the employment contract.


cost of compensation in 2014
for the first time in the 2014 financial year, the management board compensation is presented in line with the
reference tables of the code, thereby also conforming to this particular requirement of the code. this involves
differentiation between the benefits granted to members of the management board on the one hand and
what is paid to them on the other hand.

122 |   www.leoni.com




                  granted benefits                                                                                        dr klaus probst                                      dieter bellé
                                                                                                                          president / ceo                              chief financial officer / cfo
                                                                                                                2013                    2014                       2013                 2014
                  € ‘000                                                                                                                 (min)        (max)                              (min)         (max)

                   1. total compensation pursuant to gcgc

                  		 components not performance-related
                  			      fixed compensation                                                                    775           775              775       775       575         575          575           575
                  			      fringe benefits                                                                         31           32               32           32     39          39              39            39
                  			      total                                                                                 806           807              807      807        614         614         614           614
                  		 performance-related components (targets)
                  			      short-term compensation component (100 %)                                           1,287         1,241                0     1,862       862         832               0      1,247
                  			      medium-term compensation component (100 %)                                            515           683                0     1,025       347         461               0        692
                  			      long-term compensation component (100 %)                                              400           450                0       450       267         300               0        300
                  			      total                                                                               2,202         2,374                0     3,336      1,476      1,593              0       2,239
                  			      service costs                                                                         188           202              202       202       206         183          183           183
                  		 total compensation pursuant to gcgc                                                       3,196         3,383         1,009        4,345      2,296      2,390         797          3,036

                   2. reconciliation of the compensation from gcgc to ifrs (expenses)
                   total compensation pursuant to gcgc
                  		                                                                                           3,196         3,383                                 2,296      2,390
                  			 short-term compensation component:
                  				 – target (100 %)                                                                      (1,287)       (1,241)                                 (862)       (832)
                  				 + actual compensation                                                                   1,059         1,151                                   710         771
                  			 medium-term compensation component:
                  				 – target (100 %)                                                                        (515)         (683)                                 (347)       (461)
                  				 + entitlement to compensation
                  					 based on actual target attainment                                                        424           460                                  286         311
                  			 long-term compensation component:
                  				 – target pursuant to gcgc		                                                             (400)         (450)                                 (267)       (300)
                  				 + actual expenses for the financial year                                                  428           222                                   283         376
                  		expenses of the compensation pursuant to ifrs                                              2,905         2,842                                 2,099      2,255

                   3. reconciliation of the compensation from gcgc to hgb (art. 314)
                   total compensation pursuant to gcgc
                  		                                                                                           3,196         3,383                                 2,296      2,390
                  			 short-term compensation component:
                  				 – target (100 %)                                                                      (1,287)       (1,241)                                 (862)       (832)
                  				 + actual compensation                                                                   1,059         1,151                                   710         771
                  			 medium-term compensation component:
                  				 – target (100 %)                                                                        (515)         (683)                                 (347)       (461)
                  				 + entitlement to compensation
                  					 based on actual target attainment                                                        424           460                                  286         311
                  				 – compensation components for which the condition
                  					 precedent has not yet been fulfilled                                                   (424)              0                                (286)           0
                  				 + compensation components for which the condition
                  					 precedent has been fulfilled                                                                0          424                                    0         286
                  			 long-term compensation component:
                  				 ± deviation from the target                                                                 0             0                                     0           0
                  			 – service costs                                                                          (188)         (202)                                 (206)       (183)
                  		compensation pursuant to hgb (art. 314)                                                    2,265         3,292                                 1,591      2,282


                   allocations                                                                                            dr klaus probst                                      dieter bellé
                                                                                                                          president / ceo                              chief financial officer / cfo
                  € ‘000                                                                                        2013                    2014                       2013                 2014
                  		 components not performance-related
                  			      fixed compensation                                                                    775           775                                  575         575
                  			      fringe benefits                                                                         31           32                                   39          39
                  			      total                                                                                 806           807                                  614         614
                  		 performance-related components (actual figures)
                  			      short-term compensation component                                                   1,059         1,151                                  710         771
                  			      medium-term compensation component                                                    212           672                                  143         454
                  			      long-term compensation component                                                      400           450                                  267         300
                  			      total                                                                               1,671         2,273                                 1,120      1,525
                  			      service costs                                                                         188           202                                  206         183
                  		 total compensation pursuant to gcgc                                                       2,665         3,282                                 1,940      2,322
                  addition of the individual payments in € thousands in the above table may deviate from the reported totals due to rounding.

                                                                                                                  | group management report   |   123

                                                                                                                   compensation report


        dr andreas brand                              dr frank hiller                           total
         board member                          board member (since 1/ 4/2014)
2013              2014                       2013                2014                       2013         2014
                   (min)        (max)                            (min)        (max)




 325       350         350          350         0        244         244          244       1,675        1,944
  31         32            32           32      0         20             20           20      101          122
 356       382         382          382         0        263         263          263       1,776        2,066


 270       305              0       457         0        163              0       197       2,419        2,540
 270       305              0       457         0        163              0       188       1,132        1,612
   0       200              0       200         0        150              0       150         667        1,100
 540       809             0      1,114         0        476             0        535       4,218        5,252
   0          0             0            0      0          0              0            0      394          385
 896      1,191        382        1,496         0        739         263          798       6,388        7,703



 896      1,191                                 0        739                                6,388        7,703


(270)     (305)                                 0       (163)                              (2,419)      (2,540)
  222       282                                 0         151                                1,991        2,356


(270)     (305)                                 0       (163)                              (1,132)      (1,612)

 222       205                                  0        151                                  932        1,127


   0      (200)                                 0       (150)                               (667)       (1,100)
   0        324                                 0           0                                 711           922
 801      1,194                                 0        565                                5,804        6,856



 896      1,191                                 0        739                                6,388        7,703

(270)     (305)                                 0       (163)                              (2,419)      (2,540)
  222       282                                 0         151                                1,991        2,356


(270)     (305)                                 0       (163)                              (1,132)      (1,612)

 222       205                                  0        151                                  932        1,127

(222)         0                                 0       (151)                               (932)        (151)

   0       222                                  0          0                                    0          932


   0          0                                         (150)                                   0        (150)
   0          0                                 0           0                               (394)        (385)
 578      1,292                                 0        414                                4,435        7,280


        dr andreas brand                              dr frank hiller                           total
         board member                          board member (since 1/ 4/2014)
2013              2014                       2013                2014                       2013         2014


 325       350                                  0        244                                1,675        1,944
  31         32                                 0         20                                  101          122
 356       382                                  0        263                                1,776       2,066


 222       282                                  0        151                                1,991        2,356
 111       316                                  0         76                                  466        1,518
   0       200                                  0          0                                  667          950
 333       799                                  0        227                                3,124       4,823
   0          0                                 0          0                                  394          385
 689      1,181                                 0        490                                5,295        7,275

124 |   www.leoni.com




                        the ‘granted benefits’ table presents, in the compensation for management board members pursuant to
                        gcgc, which benefits the members would have been granted for 100 percent target fulfilment and which
                        absolute upper and lower limits would have applied for the individual compensation components. this total
                        compensation (gcgc) would have corresponded to an amount of € 7,703 k in fiscal 2014 (previous year:
                        € 6,388 k). the increase was due primarily to the appointment of a fourth management board member
                        effective 1 april 2014 and higher performance-related compensation. as this involves budgeted figures that
                        would only have been matched in the event of 100 percent target fulfilment, these budgeted figures must be
                        reconciled with the business performance that actually occurred and conditions precedent. a distinction must
                        be made here between reconciliation of the compensation (pursuant to gcgc) with ifrs and with article 314
                        of the german commercial code (hgb). any corresponding adjustment amounts versus the budgeted figures
                        pertaining to all variable compensation components are reported in these reconciliations. this then results in
                        the actually granted benefits pursuant to ifrs or article 314 hgb.
                           the compensation pursuant to ifrs in the financial year amounts to € 6,856 k (previous year: € 5,804 k) and
                        pursuant to article 314 hgb consequently to € 7,280 k (previous year: € 4,435 k). the increase is attributable
                        to the fourth management board member on the one hand and, in the hgb-based expense, to payout of the
                        medium-term component, which was already fulfilled for dr probst, mr bellé and dr brand at the end of 2014
                        in line with the contract terms.
                           the ‘allocations’ table, finally, also shows what cash amounts the management board members received
                        from the individual compensation components. in total, the management board members received € 7,275
                        k for the 2014 financial year (previous year: € 5,295 k). as explained above, the increase is attributable to the
                        fourth management board member and payment of the medium-term component to dr probst, mr bellé and
                        dr brand in line with the contract terms. the amounts presented as receipts for the medium-term compensa-
                        tion component in 2013 are in each case instalments because target attainment can only be determined after
                        completion of the three-year period.
                           other compensation comprises the non-monetary benefits in the use of company cars and top-ups on
                        insurance policies.
                           the fiscal 2014 expense for management board members’ pension, disability and other benefits amounts to
                        € 385 k (previous year: € 394 k). the defined benefit obligation amounts to € 10,366 k (previous year: € 7,281 k).
                        the individual figures are presented in the table below.

                        pension commitments
                        (excl. deferred compensation)                           service costs                 defined benefit obligation

                        € ‘000                                                   2013              2014              2013                   2014

                        dr klaus probst                                            188              183              4,553                  6,521

                        dieter bellé                                               206              202              2,728                  3,845

                        total                                                      394              385              7,281                 10,366



                        the pension, disability and other benefit expenses in principle comprise service costs and past service costs
                        pursuant to ifrs. the defined benefit obligation (dbo) corresponds to the scope of obligations pursuant to
                        ifrs.

                                                                                                                                     | group management report   |   125

                                                                                                                                       compensation report




pensions will be paid to management board members dr klaus probst and dieter bellé when they have either
reached the retirement age of 65 years (63 with agreed discounts) or they become permanently disabled. the
pension entitlement of the aforementioned management board members is computed as an agreed pension-
able proportion of the final fixed annual salary.
   in 2014, dr andreas brand was issued with a defined-contribution plan taking effect from 1 january 2015.
this comprises age-related, disability and surviving dependents’ benefits. this pension will be paid when
dr brand has completed his 67th year of age. upon request, this may be paid out prior to completion of the
67th year of age, however upon completion of the 63rd year of age at the earliest.



new compensation system from 2015

in accordance with the code, we hereinafter explain the principles of the new system for compensating the
members of leoni ag’s management board and the specific structure of the individual components that differ
from the previous system in some respects. the table below provides an overview of the structure and system
for management board compensation from 2015.



component                    measurement basis                  corridor                       precondition for payment        payment
1. fixed compensation        function, responsibility,          firmly agreed                  contractual stipulation         monthly
   fixed salary              duration of board membership,      for the term of the contract
   benefits in kind/         standard
   fringe benefits

2. short-term compensation   task, performance,                 0 to 110 %                     1-year planning,                once a year
   component                 consolidated net income and ebit   [ target fully met = 100 % ]   target attainment               in the subsequent year
   annual bonus              margin

3. medium-term               task, performance,                 0 to 115 %                     3-year planning,                in the 4th year
  compensation component     consolidated net income            [ target fully met = 100 % ]   target attainment on a 3-year
  multi-year bonus                                                                             average at least 50 %

4. long-term                 task, performance,                 0 up to cap,                   contractual stipulation         once a year in the subse-
   compensation component    eva and share appreciation         penalty rule                                                   quent year; 50 % of which
   bonus account                                                                                                               converted into leoni shares
                                                                                                                               with a 50-month holding
                                                                                                                               period

5. disability and other      pensionable fixed salary,          fixed amount                   retirement,                     —
   benefits                  years of service on the board,                                    disability
   accrued pension rights    defined-contribution plan




fixed compensation
the fixed component is a firm, annual amount of basic compensation that is paid in equal monthly instal-
ments. as all the other compensation components are variable and can drop to nil, the fixed component is the
minimum amount of management board compensation. the fixed amount is commensurate with that paid by
other mdax companies.

126 |   www.leoni.com




                        variable components
                        as in the existing compensation system, there will, alongside the fixed compensation, be three further
                        variable compensation components, each of which have upper limits in absolute terms and can drop to nil.
                        the short-term compensation component refers to the respectively completed financial year, whereas the
                        medium-term compensation component takes account of a three-year period and is geared to sustainability.
                        the weighting between the short and medium-term components is 50/50 and will, as opposed to the existing
                        system, be raised towards the medium-term component and thus to sustainability.


                        short-term compensation component – annual bonus: an annual bonus will be assessed depending on
                        the net income generated, whereas amounts that exceed 110 percent (cap) of the budgeted net income for
                        the year will be disregarded. the assessed annual bonus can rise by another 10 percent provided the group
                        generates an ebit margin of more than 7.5 percent. assessment of the annual bonus will be discounted by
                        10 percent for ebit margins that are less than 4.5 percent but not below 3.5 percent. should the group gen-
                        erate an ebit margin of less than 3.5 percent, the discount on the assessed annual bonus will be 30 percent.
                        in each year of the contract term the annual bonus will have an upper limit in absolute terms; it will be paid in
                        cash and can drop to nil.


                        medium-term compensation component – multi-year bonus: the multi-year bonus is geared, depending
                        on the respective year’s net income, to the results of a three-year period, while amounts that exceed
                        115 percent (cap) of the budgeted annual net income amounts will be disregarded. payment is made after the
                        three-year period and only if the (arithmetic) average degree of target attainment for the three-year period
                        is at least 50 percent. otherwise the multi-year bonus is forfeited in full. the multi-year bonus thus conforms
                        to the sustainability requirement set out in both the vorstag and the code. the multi-year bonus will be paid
                        in the fourth year, while 50 percent of the annual amount will be paid in the respective subsequent year as an
                        instalment. in each year of the contract term the multi-year bonus will have an upper limit in absolute terms;
                        it will be paid in cash and can drop to nil.


                        long-term compensation component: the long-term compensation component will remain unchanged
                        from the existing system and has an upper limit for each member of the management board in each year of
                        their contract term.


                        absolute upper limit: the total compensation, which is the sum of the fixed, short-term, medium-term and
                        long-term components, has, as do the short-term, medium-term and long-term components themselves, an
                        absolute upper limit for each management board member in each year of their contract term.


                        pension, disability and other benefits: the existing, purely defined-benefit plans will expire and will be
                        replaced for first-time plans so far as possible by a defined-contribution plan. in the case of first-time plans,
                        there will for each management board member be an absolute limit to the benefit to be paid for each year
                        of the contract term and, moreover, a general upper limit to the level of pension with respect to the fixed
                        amount. the new retirement benefit system is set up in such a way that the standard retirement age is
                        67 years and at the earliest 63 years subject to accepting discounts on the pension.

                                                                                                                                        | group management report   |   127

                                                                                                                                         compensation report




supervisory board compensation

the articles of association govern compensation for members of the supervisory board. a system of fixed
compensation has applied for members of leoni ag’s supervisory board since 1 january 2013. it stipulates a
fixed amount of € 85 k per ordinary member of the supervisory board. the chairperson receives double this
amount and the deputy chairpersons receive one and a half times the amount. the compensation for com-
mittee work (personnel, audit, strategy and nomination committees) comes to € 8 k per ordinary member
and to € 16 k per committee chairperson. it is paid only if the committee meets at least once in the year. due
to the increase in time spent and the greater responsibility involving supervisory board and committee work,
attendance of supervisory board and audit committee meetings will be paid for in the amount of € 1,000 per
meeting and supervisory board member, with a maximum of ten meetings to be taken into consideration
per financial year. the maximum overall compensation possible for supervisory board members including
committee work and attendance money comes to € 1,534 k.

cost of compensation in 2014                                                                                    performance
                                                        fixed                                   compensation    related com-
                                                     compensation           attendance          for committee    pensation
€ ‘000                                                  (net)                 money                  work           (net)      other   total

dr werner rupp 1                            2014            170                    9                       48        0           ­—     227

                                            2013            170                    9                       48        0           ­—     227

franz spieß 2                               2014            128                    9                       16        0           ­—     153

                                            2013            128                    8                       16        0           ­—     152

gabriele bauer                              2014              85                   5                       16        0           ­—     106

                                            2013              85                   5                       16        0           ­—     106

josef häring                                2014              85                   5                        0        0           ­—      90

                                            2013              85                   5                        0        0           ­—      90

ingrid hofmann                              2014              85                   5                        0        0           ­—      90

                                            2013              85                   5                        0        0           ­—      90

karl-heinz lach                             2014              85                   5                        0        0           ­—      90

                                            2013              85                   5                        0        0           ­—      90

dr werner lang                              2014              85                   5                        8        0           ­—      98

                                            2013              85                   5                        8        0           ­—      98

richard paglia                              2014              85                   9                       16        0           ­—     110

                                            2013              85                   9                       16        0           ­—     110

dr bernd rödl                               2014              85                   9                       32        0           ­—     126

                                            2013              85                   9                       32        0           ­—     126

wilhelm wessels                             2014              85                   5                        0        0           ­—      90

                                            2013              85                   5                        0        0           ­—      90

helmut wirtz                                2014              85                   5                        8        0            1      99

                                            2013              85                   5                        8        0            1      99

prof. dr-ing. klaus wucherer 3              2014            128                    4                       32        0           ­—     164

                                            2013            128                    4                       32        0           ­—     164

total                                       2014          1,190                   75                  176            0            1    1,442

                                            2013          1,190                   74                  176            0            1    1,441
addition of the individual payments in € thousands may deviate from the reported totals due to rounding.

1
 chairman of the supervisory board
2
 1st deputy chairman of the supervisory board
 2 deputy chairman of the supervisory board
3 nd

128 |   www.leoni.com




                        disclosures pursuant to art. 315 (4) of the
                        german commercial code

                        composition of the share capital: as at 31 december 2014, the share capital in leoni ag is divided into
                        32,669,000 registered no-par-value shares. with respect to leoni ag, article 67 (2) sentence 1 of the german
                        public companies act defines as shareholders only those persons or entities entered in the share register. all
                        shares are subject to the same rights and obligations. each share provides one vote at the annual general
                        meeting and is key to the shareholders’ share of the profit.


                        constraints concerning the voting rights or the transfer of shares: leoni ag is not aware of any constraints
                        affecting voting rights. legal requirements, especially under article 135 of the german public companies act
                        (aktg), apply to the exercise of voting rights by shareholder associations as well as by financial institutions and
                        persons otherwise granted proxy. transfer constraints exist in so far as shares that members of the manage-
                        ment and executives receive or have received in the context of a long-term incentive programme are subject
                        to a holding period.


                        leoni ag is not aware of any shareholdings, either direct or indirect, that exceed 10 percent of the voting
                        rights.


                        nor are there any shares with special entitlements that grant control rights.


                        the control of voting rights in the case of shareholding employees who do not directly exercise their
                        control rights: so far as employees are shareholders, they are entitled to directly exercise the control rights
                        associated with their shares in accordance with the articles of association and the law.


                        statutory provisions and rules in the articles of association on the appointment and recall of members
                        of the management board and on changes to the articles of association: the appointment and recall of
                        management board members is governed by articles 84 and 85 of the german public companies act as well
                        as in article 31 of germany’s co-determination act. accordingly, the supervisory board appoints members to
                        the management board for a maximum of five years. pursuant to article 5 (1) of the articles of association, the
                        management board has at least two members. furthermore, pursuant to article 5 (2) of the articles of asso-
                        ciation, the supervisory board appoints the management board members and determines their number. it is
                        entitled to appoint deputy members of the management board as well as a chairman and a deputy chairman
                        of the management board.
                          article 179 of the german public companies act stipulates that amendments to the articles of association
                        require a shareholder resolution at the annual general meeting. article 16 (3) of the articles of association
                        stipulates that a simple majority of votes and, so far as a majority of shares is needed, a simple majority of
                        shares is required for any amendment to said articles of association unless something different is bindingly
                        required by law or by the articles of association.

                                                                                                                       | group management report               |   129

                                                                                                                        disclosures pursuant to art. 315 (4)
                                                                                                                        of the german commercial code




pursuant to article 19 of the articles of association, the supervisory board is entitled to adopt amendments
and additions to the articles of association that pertain only to the version. furthermore, the supervisory
board is authorised pursuant to art. 4 (5) subsection 5 of the articles of association to amend the version of
the articles of association in line with executing an increase in share capital by exercise of authorised capital
and after expiry of the term of authorisation. article 4 (6) subsection 2 of the articles of association also entit-
les the board to amend the articles of association in line with the respective utilisation of the contingent capi-
tal. the same shall apply in the event of non-utilisation of the authorisation to issue convertible bonds and/or
warrant-linked bonds following the expiry of the authorisation period and in the event of the non-utilisation
of the contingent capital i following the expiry of all conversion and/or option periods.


powers of the management board to issue or buy back shares:


purchase of treasury shares at the annual general meeting on 6 may 2010 shareholders authorised the
management board of leoni ag pursuant to article 71 (1) section 8 of the german public companies act to
acquire up to 2,970,000 shares in the company until 5 may 2015. the purchase may also take place through
group companies that are dependent on the company, or by third parties on their or the latter’s account. such
a purchase may be transacted via the stock market or by means of a public offer to all shareholders or a public
request to all shareholders to make a sales offer. the management board is authorised in accordance with the
aforementioned resolution to use the company shares acquired on the basis of this or a previous authorisa-
tion for all legally permitted purposes, including in particular those stated in the authorisation. the statutory
right of shareholders to subscribe to own shares shall be excluded insofar as the shares are used in accordance
with the purposes specified in the authorisation.


authorised capital the management board is authorised pursuant to article 4 (5) of the articles of asso-
ciation to increase the company’s share capital by up to € 16,334,500.00 on or before 15 may 2017 with the
supervisory board’s approval by issuing up to 16,334,500 bearer shares, each with a pro-rated share of € 1.00
in the share capital, on a cash and/or non-cash basis once or repeatedly (authorised capital 2012). sharehold-
ers must in the process and in principle be granted a right to subscribe, however the annual general meeting
authorised the management board, with the supervisory board’s approval, to rule out shareholders’ subscrip-
tion rights in certain cases.


contingent capital furthermore, the management board is authorised pursuant to article 4 (6) of the
articles of association to issue convertible bonds and/or warrant-linked bonds until 5 may 2015. this involved
a contingent increase in share capital by up to € 14.85 million (contingent capital i). the contingent capital
increase is only to be performed to the extent that conversion and/or option rights have been utilised or that
the holders and/or creditors obliged to convert have met their conversion obligation and provided that no
cash settlement has been granted or company shares or new shares from the utilisation of approved capital
are utilised for the exercise of rights.

130 |   www.leoni.com




                        agreements of the company that are conditional upon a change of control as a result of a takeover bid:
                        in the event of a change of control as a result of a takeover bid, the borrower’s note loans placed in 2008, 2012,
                        2013 and 2014 in the total amount of € 346.5 million as well as the other loan agreements may be called in im-
                        mediately. furthermore, in such an event some of the major customers, suppliers as well as other joint venture
                        partners also have the right to terminate contractual agreements with the company prematurely.


                        leoni ag agreements for the event of a takeover bid that would provide members of the management
                        board or staff with compensation: the service contracts of the management board members include a
                        change-of-control clause. each management board member is thereby entitled, in the event of a change of
                        control, to extraordinary termination as well as to a settlement claim within three months. the settlement
                        comprises the balance of annual compensation to the end of the term of the contract and is, in accordance
                        with section 4.2.3 (4) and (5) of the german corporate governance code, limited to a maximum three years’
                        compensation, or, if the remaining contract period is less than three years, to the sum outstanding for such re-
                        maining period. the annual compensation comprises the fixed annual salary and 80 percent of the maximum
                        attainable bonus.


                        nuremberg, 23 february 2015


                        the management board




                        dr klaus probst           dieter bellé          dr andreas brand             dr frank hiller

                                                                                                                             |   131




  consolidated financial statements

  consolidated net income increased by about 9 percent to € 115.1 million
  in the past financial year. in keeping with our dividend policy, about one
  third of that is to be paid out to shareholders. we will therefore propose
  a dividend of € 1.20 at the annual general meeting. that equates to a
  20 percent increase in the dividend and a yield of 2.4 percent based on
  the yearend closing price.




                                                                                                   137 consolidated statement
                                                   135 consolidated statement                         of changes in equity
                                                       of cash flows
133 consolidated
   income statement




                        134 consolidated statement
                            of comprehensive income


                                                                       136 consolidated statement
                                                                           of financial position

132 |   www.leoni.com




                                                                                212 r esponsibility
                                                                                    statement
                        138 notes




                                             210 independent auditor’s report



                                    208 scope of consolidation

                                                                  consolidated financial statements | consolidated financial statements   |   133

                                                                                                     consolidated income statement




consolidated income statement

€ ‘000 		                                                 01/01/ to 31/12/     notes                 2014                2013


sales                                                                                           4,103,434           3,917,886
cost of sales                                                                                  (3,401,152)         (3,240,126)
gross profit on sales                                                                             702,282             677,760


selling expenses                                                                                 (213,816)           (196,405)
general and administration expenses                                                              (197,458)           (190,974)
research and development expenses                                                                (109,338)           (106,109)
other operating income                                                       [6] [7]               12,621              10,449
other operating expenses                                                         [6]              (11,987)            (31,315)
result from associated companies and joint ventures                                                    201               (261)
ebit                                                                                              182,505             163,145


finance revenue                                                                  [8]                   665                 543
finance costs                                                                    [8]              (32,595)            (32,729)
other income from share investments                                                                    144                 261
income before taxes                                                                               150,719             131,220


income taxes                                                                     [9]              (35,659)            (25,324)
net income                                                                                        115,060             105,896


		 attributable to: equity holders of the parent                                                  114,674             105,518
			                     non-controlling interests                                                      386                 378


earnings per share (basic and diluted) in euro                                  [ 29 ]                3.51                3.23
weighted average shares outstanding (basic and diluted)                         [ 29 ]         32,669,000          32,669,000

134 |   www.leoni.com




                  consolidated statement of comprehensive income

                  € ‘000                                                                                     01/01/ to 31/12/   notes               2014              2013


                  net income                                                                                                             		115,060 		105,896


                  other comprehensive income


                  items that cannot be reclassified to the income statement:
                    actuarial gains or losses on defined benefit plans                                                                    (39,098) 		2,405
                                                                                                                                         		
                    income taxes applying to items of other comprehensive income that are not reclassified                               		9,899 		(1,399)


                  items that can be reclassified to the income statement:
                    cumulative translation adjustments
                  		    gains and losses arising during the period                                                                        38,963           (15,247)
                  		    less reclassification adjustments included in the income statement                                                    29             (542)
                    total cumulative translation adjustments                                                                             		38,992 		(15,789)


                    available-for-sale investments
                  		    losses arising during the period                                                                                       0                (4)
                  		    less reclassification adjustments included in the income statement                                                     0              (133)
                    total available-for-sale investments                                                                                 		0 		(137)


                    cash flow hedges
                  		    losses and gains arising during the period                                                                        (4,641)            2,970
                  		    less reclassification adjustments included in the income statement                                                   129               541
                    total cash flow hedges                                                                                                (4,512) 		3,511
                                                                                                                                         		


                    income taxes applying to items of other comprehensive income that are reclassified                          [ 10 ]   		2,696 		(1,215)


                  other comprehensive income (after taxes)                                                                      [ 10 ]   		7,977 		(12,624)


                  total comprehensive income                                                                                             		123,037 		93,272


                  		    attributable to: equity holders of the parent                                                                    		122,584 		92,985
                  			                   non-controlling interests                                                                        		453 		287

                                                                                                                                     | consolidated financial statements     |   135

                                                                                                                                      consolidated statement of
                                                                                                                                      comprehensive income
                                                                                                                                      consolidated statement of cash flows




consolidated statement of cash flows

€ ‘000 		                                                                                                      01/01/ to 31/12/       2014                2013
net income                                                                                                                         115,060             105,896
adjustments to reconcile cash provided by operating activities:
     income taxes                                                                                                                   35,659              25,324
     net interest                                                                                                                   30,467              30,470
     dividend income                                                                                                                  (144)               (307)
     depreciation and amortisation                                                                                                 123,392             120,992
     other non-cash expenses and income                                                                                               (201)                307
     result of asset disposals and measurement of assets held for sale                                                                1,282              1,283
change in operating assets and liabilities, adjusted for the impact of changes in the scope of consolidation
     change in receivables and other financial assets                                                                              (48,258)            (49,088)
     change in inventories                                                                                                         (54,481)            (21,163)
     change in other assets                                                                                                        (12,518)             (8,733)
     change in provisions                                                                                                           (7,928)             (3,864)
     change in liabilities                                                                                                          54,915              40,570
income taxes paid                                                                                                                  (32,741)            (23,881)
interest paid                                                                                                                      (24,169)            (31,037)
interest received                                                                                                                      379                 366
dividends received                                                                                                                     144                307
cash provided by operating activities                                                                                              180,858            187,442


capital expenditures for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment                                                      (219,655)          (153,606)
capital expenditures for other financial assets                                                                                         (5)                (35)
cash receipts from disposal of assets and disposal of assets held for sale (incl. liabilities)                                         924               2,867
income from the disposal of a business operation / subsidiaries less cash and cash equivalents paid                                       0                120
     thereof: disposal proceeds: € 0 k (previous year: € 120 k)
    		        cash and cash equivalents paid: € 0 k (previous year: € 0 k)
cash used for capital spending activities                                                                                         (218,736)          (150,654)


cash receipts from acceptance of financial debts                                                                                   135,311             165,619
cash repayments of financial debts                                                                                                 (37,588)          (251,701)
dividends paid by leoni ag                                                                                                         (32,669)            (49,004)
dividends paid to the non-controlling interest shareholders                                                                           (249)               (643)
cash provided by / used for financing activities                                                                                    64,805           (135,729)


change of cash and cash equivalents                                                                                                 26,927             (98,941)
currency adjustment                                                                                                                   7,077             (1,409)
cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period                                                                                   197,974             298,324
cash and cash equivalents at end of period                                                                                         231,978             197,974

136 |   www.leoni.com




                  consolidated statement of financial position

                  assets     € ‘000                                                             notes    31/12/2014    31/12/2013
                  cash and cash equivalents                                                                 231,978       197,974
                  trade accounts receivable and other financial assets                          [ 11 ]      562,350       522,194
                  other assets                                                                  [ 12 ]       92,630        82,230
                  receivables from income taxes                                                              10,919        12,299
                  inventories                                                                   [ 13 ]      564,179       509,698
                  assets held for sale                                                          [ 14 ]        9,601         7,965
                  total current assets                                                                    1,471,657     1,332,360

                  property, plant and equipment                                                 [ 15 ]      810,073       709,782
                  intangible assets                                                             [ 16 ]       82,661        82,256
                  goodwill                                                                      [ 17 ]      147,676       148,417
                  shares in associated companies and joint ventures                                             658           458
                  trade receivables from long-term development contracts                        [ 11 ]       55,146        46,931
                  other financial assets                                                        [ 19 ]        7,535         4,860
                  deferred taxes                                                                [9]          72,004        56,999
                  other assets                                                                               19,771        17,653
                  total non-current assets                                                                1,195,524     1,067,356

                  total assets                                                                            2,667,181     2,399,716




                  equity and liabilities      € ‘000                                            notes    31/12/2014    31/12/2013
                  current financial debts and current proportion of long-term financial debts   [ 20 ]       99,776        41,279
                  trade accounts payable and other financial liabilities                        [ 21 ]      744,219       698,739
                  income taxes payable                                                                       42,454        39,481
                  other current liabilities                                                     [ 22 ]      150,985       146,986
                  provisions                                                                    [ 23 ]       28,329        37,100
                  total current liabilities                                                               1,065,763       963,585

                  long-term financial debts                                                     [ 20 ]      448,402       413,685
                  long-term financial liabilities                                                             7,522         6,850
                  other non-current liabilities                                                               9,072         9,333
                  pension provisions                                                            [ 24 ]      157,183       113,261
                  other provisions                                                              [ 23 ]       23,961        22,578
                  deferred taxes                                                                [9]          37,523        42,827
                  total non-current liabilities                                                             683,663       608,534

                  share capital                                                                 [ 25 ]       32,669        32,669
                  additional paid-in capital                                                    [ 25 ]      290,887       290,887
                  retained earnings                                                             [ 25 ]      619,252       537,247
                  accumulated other comprehensive income                                                    (26,631)      (34,541)
                  equity holders of the parent                                                              916,177       826,262
                  non-controlling interests                                                                   1,578         1,335
                  total equity                                                                  [ 25 ]      917,755       827,597

                  total equity and liabilities                                                            2,667,181     2,399,716

                                                                                                                                    | consolidated financial statements            |   137

                                                                                                                                      consolidated statement of financial position
                                                                                                                                      consolidated statement of changes in equity




consolidated statement of changes in equity

                                                                    accumulated other comprehensive income



                                            additional                cumulative      available-                                      equity
                                              paid-in    retained     translation        for-sale   cash flow   actuarial gains   holders of non-controlling
€ ‘000                      share capital      capital   earnings    adjustments    investments       hedges        and losses    the parent       interests                total
1 january 2013                   32,669      290,887     480,733         45,370             107      (4,917)         (62,568)      782,281               1,691         783,972
net income                                               105,518                                                                   105,518                  378         105,896
other comprehensive
income                                                                  (15,696)          (107)        2,264            1,006      (12,533)                 (91)       (12,624)
total comprehensive
income                                                                                                                               92,985                 287           93,272
dividend payment                                         (49,004)                                                                  (49,004)               (643)        (49,647)
31 december 2013                 32,669      290,887     537,247         29,674               0      (2,653)         (61,562)      826,262               1,335         827,597


1 january 2014                   32,669      290,887     537,247         29,674               0      (2,653)         (61,562)      826,262               1,335         827,597
net income                                               114,674                                                                   114,674                  386         115,060
other comprehensive
income                                                                    38,925               0      (1,816)         (29,199)        7,910                  67           7,977
total comprehensive
income                                                                                                                              122,584                 453         123,037
dividend payment                                         (32,669)                                                                  (32,669)               (249)        (32,918)
disposal of
non-controlling interests                                                                                                                                    39               39
31 december 2014                 32,669      290,887     619,252         68,599               0      (4,469)         (90,761)      916,177               1,578         917,755

138 |   www.leoni.com




                        notes



                        principles

                        leoni ag („leoni“, the „group“ or the „company“) was founded in germany under the name of leonische
                        werke roth-nürnberg, aktiengesellschaft by an agreement dated 23 april 1917 and was entered in the
                        commercial register on 2 february 1918. leoni ag is registered with the district court of nuremberg under
                        number hrb 202. the company is based in nuremberg, at marienstrasse 7. the group’s principal activities are
                        described in note 5.
                          these consolidated financial statements of leoni ag have been prepared based on section 315a of the
                        german commercial code (hgb – “consolidated financial statements pursuant to the international financial
                        reporting standards“) in accordance with the international financial reporting standards (ifrs) and the asso-
                        ciated interpretations (sic/ifric interpretations) as obliged to by directive (eu) no. 1606/2002 of the european
                        parliament and of the council concerning the adoption of international accounting standards in the european
                        union. the term ifrs also covers the still valid international accounting standards (ias).
                          leoni ag’s consolidated financial statements on 31 december 2014 have been prepared in euros. except
                        where stated otherwise, all amounts are presented in thousands of euros (“€ k”). the balance sheet is struc-
                        tured by term, while the income statement is prepared using the function of expense method. the statement
                        of comprehensive income is issued in two related presentations. where the balance sheet and income state-
                        ment items are summarised to improve clarity of presentation, they are shown separately in the notes.
                          the accounting and valuation methods applied in the consolidated financial statements on 31 december
                        2014 are in line with those of the previous year with the exception of the new ifrs requirements applied for
                        the first time in the 2014 financial year. these are explained under note 2.
                          the management board on 23 february 2015 authorised the presented consolidated financial statements
                        for the year ended 31 december 2014 for submission to the supervisory board.
                          the consolidated financial statements will be published in the electronic federal gazette (bundesanzeiger)
                        under number hrb 202.



                        1 | principles of consolidation as well as summary
                        of key accounting and valuation methods
                        the consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative
                        financial instruments and available-for-sale financial assets that have been measured at fair value.


                        principles of consolidation
                        the consolidated financial statements include the accounts of leoni ag and of all subsidiaries that are either
                        directly or indirectly controlled by leoni ag. the group controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights,

                                                                                                                           | consolidated financial statements            |   139

                                                                                                                            notes
                                                                                                                             1 | principles of consolidation as well as
                                                                                                                            		 summary of key accounting and
                                                                                                                            		 valuation methods




to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through
its power over the investee. in particular, the group controls an investee if, and only if, it has all the following
elements:

■■   power over the investee, i.e. the group has existing rights that give it the ability to direct the relevant activi-
     ties (the activities that significantly affect the investee’s returns)
■■   exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee
■■   the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amount of the investor’s returns


if facts or circumstances indicate that one or several of the three elements of control have changed, the group
must reassess whether it controls an investee.
     subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the time of acquisition, i.e. from the time when the group has
acquired control over the subsidiary. inclusion in the consolidated financial statements ends as soon as leoni
no longer has control. a change in the ownership share of a subsidiary is, without loss of control, accounted
for as an equity transaction. losses are allocated to the non-controlling interests even when this results in a
negative balance.
     the financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared using uniform accounting policies on the same
balance sheet date as the financial statements of the parent company. all intercompany balances, income,
expenses as well as unrealised profits, losses and dividends from intercompany transactions are eliminated in
full.
     all business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method based on applying the require-
ments of ifrs 3. the cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred,
measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. for
each business combination, the acquirer measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair
value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets.
     acquisition-related costs are expensed.
     any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the ac-
quisition date. subsequent changes in the fair value of a contingent consideration, which is deemed to be an
asset or liability, will be recognised in accordance with ias 39 either in profit or loss or in other comprehensive
income. if the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until it is finally
settled within equity.
     if the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s previously
held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
     goodwill arises and is upon initial consolidation measured at cost if the consideration transferred and the
amount recognised for non-controlling interest exceeds the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired
and liabilities assumed. if this transferred consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the
subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss. after goodwill is first accounted for, it is
tested for impairment according to ias 36 at least once a year, which may lead to an impairment loss (impair-
ment-only approach).

140 |   www.leoni.com




                        shares in associated companies and joint ventures
                        it is an associated business when leoni can exert significant influence over its operating and financial policies,
                        but does not control or jointly control the decision-making processes. this is in principle the case when be-
                        tween 20 and 50 percent of the voting rights are held.
                          a joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have
                        rights to the net assets of the joint venture. joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an
                        arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of
                        the parties sharing control. the considerations to determine significant influence or joint control are compara-
                        ble with those to determine control of subsidiaries.
                          shares in associated companies and in joint venture companies are accounted for under the equity method.
                        the shares are valued with their purchase price on the acquisition date, which is increased or reduced respec-
                        tively in the subsequent periods for any changes in net assets of the company such as the proportionate share
                        of net income or loss and by received dividends. the proportionate net income or loss is determined using
                        the accounting policies described in this note. in line with the treatment of fully consolidated subsidiaries, the
                        goodwill included in the carrying amount of companies accounted for under the equity method is no longer
                        amortised either. instead of a test for impairment of equity method goodwill, the whole investment accounted
                        for under the equity method is reviewed for impairment according to ias 36, provided there are indications
                        according to ias 39 of additional impairment loss. the group determines on each balance sheet date whether
                        there are objectively discernible indications that the investment in an associated company or joint venture
                        might be impaired. if this is the case, the difference between the fair value of the investment and the carrying
                        amount is expensed as an impairment loss.
                          the financial statements of the associates and of the joint ventures are prepared using uniform accounting
                        policies on the same balance sheet date as the financial statements of the parent company.


                        foreign currency translation
                        these consolidated financial statements are prepared in the presentation currency, the euro, which is the
                        functional currency of the group parent company, leoni ag. the financial statements of the foreign subsid-
                        iaries included in the consolidated financial statements with a functional currency other than the euro, are,
                        under ias 21, translated into the group currency, the euro, according to the functional currency concept.
                        the functional currency of the individual subsidiaries is the currency of the primary economic environment
                        in which the company operates. the financial statements prepared in the respective functional currency of
                        the subsidiary are translated using the closing rate method, i.e. the assets and liabilities are translated from
                        the functional currency to the presentation currency at the closing exchange rate on the balance sheet date,
                        while the statements of income are translated using annual average exchange rates (arithmetic average of
                        the monthly average exchange rates). any differences arising from the translation of assets and liabilities
                        compared with the previous year’s translation as well as translation differences between the income state-
                        ment and the statement of financial position are recorded in other comprehensive income. on the disposal of
                        a foreign operation, the cumulative amount of the exchange differences in the other comprehensive income
                        relating to that foreign operation is recognised in the income statement when the gain or loss on disposal is
                        recognised.

                                                                                                                                | consolidated financial statements            |   141

                                                                                                                                 notes
                                                                                                                                  1 | principles of consolidation as well as
                                                                                                                                 		 summary of key accounting and
                                                                                                                                 		 valuation methods




a foreign currency transaction, i.e. a transaction entered into by a consolidated company in a currency other
than its functional currency, is recorded, on initial recognition in the functional currency, by applying to the
foreign currency amount the spot exchange rate between the functional currency and the foreign currency
at the date of the transaction. in the subsequent periods monetary assets and liabilities are revalued using
the closing rate at each balance sheet date. the resulting currency differences are recorded in the income
statement. non-monetary items are still carried at the transaction rate, or, if they are measured at fair value
in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value was determined.
exchange gains or losses that arise from measurement of monetary, principally intra-group items are allocated
to operating income (ebit) to the extent that they involve exchange gains or losses directly related to an
operating transaction.


the exchange rates of the companies material to the consolidated financial statements have changed as
follows:

average exchange rate at balance sheet date                                              [ 1 euro in foreign currency units ]

country                                   currency        iso code                  31/12/2014                 31/12/2013
brazil                                    real            brl                            3.24100                    3.25190
china                                     renminbi yuan   cny                            7.55500                    8.33140
united kingdom                            pound           gbp                            0.78180                    0.83310
korea                                     won             krw                        1,337.35340               1,452.96920
mexico                                    peso            mxn                           17.92340                  18.02820
poland                                    zloty           pln                           4.29020                     4.15080
romania                                   leu             ron                           4.48450                     4.47390
russian federation                        rubel           rub                           67.58950                  45.25820
switzerland                               franc           chf                            1.20240                    1.22670
usa                                       dollar          usd                            1.21660                    1.37670



annual average exchange rate                                                             [ 1 euro in foreign currency units ]

country                                   currency        iso code                         2014                        2013
brazil                                    real            brl                            3.12670                    2.88204
china                                     renminbi yuan   cny                            8.17091                    8.17188
united kingdom                            pound           gbp                            0.80513                    0.84710
korea                                     won             krw                        1,396.14821               1.452.37442
mexico                                    peso            mxn                           17.68462                  17.12432
poland                                    zloty           pln                            4.19202                    4.20644
romania                                   leu             ron                            4.44131                    4.41813
russian federation                        rubel           rub                           51.01988                  42.40715
switzerland                               franc           chf                            1.21351                    1.22713
usa                                       dollar          usd                            1.32612                    1.32922

142 |   www.leoni.com




                        measurement of fair value
                        the group measures various assets at their fair value on each balance sheet date. fair value is the price that an
                        entity would receive to sell an asset or be paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
                        participants at the measurement date. when measuring fair value, it is assumed that the business transaction
                        takes place either on the principal market or, if there is no principal market, on the most advantageous market
                        for the asset or the liability. the group must have access to the principal market or the most advantageous
                        market.
                             the fair value of an asset or a liability is measured on the assumptions on which market participants would
                        base their pricing of the asset or the liability. this assumes that the market participants act in their best busi-
                        ness interest.
                             a fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes account of the market participant’s ability, through
                        the asset’s highest and best use or through its sale to another market participant who finds the asset’s highest
                        and best use, to generate economic benefit. the group applies valuation techniques appropriate in the cir-
                        cumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of observable
                        inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
                             all assets and liabilities for which fair value is ascertained or presented in the financial statements are cate-
                        gorised into the fair value hierarchies described hereinafter, based on the lowest level input that is significant
                        to the entire measurement of fair value:

                        ■■   level 1:
                             (non-adjusted) prices quoted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
                        ■■   level 2:
                             a valuation technique whereby the lowest level input that is significant to the entire measurement of fair
                             value is directly or indirectly observable on the market
                        ■■   level 3:
                             a valuation technique whereby the lowest level input that is significant to the entire measurement of fair
                             value is not observable on the market


                        in the case of assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the
                        group ascertains whether any reclassification of the hierarchy levels has taken place by, at the end of each
                        reporting period, reviewing the classification based on the lowest level input that is significant to the entire
                        measurement of fair value.
                             the services of outside appraisers are used in some individual cases to value significant assets as well as
                        such significant liabilities as contingent considerations. the group analyses as at each reporting date the value
                        of assets and liabilities that must, in accordance with the group’s accounting policies, be remeasured or reas-
                        sessed. this analysis involves a review of the significant inputs that were applied to the previous valuation.

                                                                                                                   | consolidated financial statements            |   143

                                                                                                                    notes
                                                                                                                     1 | principles of consolidation as well as
                                                                                                                    		 summary of key accounting and
                                                                                                                    		 valuation methods




revenue recognition
revenues are generated mainly from the sale of products. pursuant to ias 18, sales revenues are generally rec-
ognised net of value added tax (vat) upon delivery of products to the customer or upon fulfilment of service
contracts. delivery has occurred when the risks and rewards associated with ownership have been transferred
to the buyer. provisions for customer rebates and discounts as well as for returns and other adjustments are
provided for in the same period the related sales are recognised. fulfilment of service contracts occurs when
substantially all performance obligations have been met. in the case of long-term development contracts,
revenues are recognised according to the stage of completion provided that the contracts meet the condi-
tions for applying the percentage-of-completion method pursuant to ias 11. this applies to the development
contracts described below.
  interest income is recognised as interest accrues. by using the effective interest rate method this means that
the interest income recognised is the amount produced by using the effective interest rate. this is the rate
that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the financial instrument to the
net carrying amount of the financial asset.
  dividend income is recognised when the shareholder’s right to receive payment is established.


research and development costs
research costs are expensed as incurred.
  development costs are expensed as incurred unless they relate to customer-specific development contracts
accounted for pursuant to ias 11, or they meet the criteria of ias 38 for capitalisation as an intangible asset.
pursuant to ias 11 for customer-specific development contracts that meet the corresponding conditions the
percentage-of-completion method is applied. the capitalised amount, where payment is expected after more
than one year, is disclosed under trade receivables from long-term development contracts. the current pro-
portion is contained in trade receivables. the percentage of completion is determined according to the ratio
of total costs to costs incurred (cost-to-cost method). the income from development contracts is reported
under sales in the income statement.


government grants
a government grant is recognised when there is sufficient assurance that the grant will be received and
that the enterprise will comply with the conditions attaching to it. expense-related grants are recognised as
income on a systematic basis over the periods necessary to match them with the associated costs. grants for
an asset are deducted from the cost of the asset.

144 |   www.leoni.com




                        inventories
                        inventories encompass raw materials, production supplies and goods purchased as well as work in progress
                        and finished goods. they are stated at the lower of cost and the net realisable value. raw materials, produc-
                        tion supplies as well as goods purchased are evaluated at cost using the weighted average cost formula or
                        at the lower net realisable value on the balance sheet date. the net realisable value is computed based on
                        the estimated selling price in the normal course of business less the estimated costs of completion and the
                        estimated costs necessary to make the sale. costs of conversion of work in progress and finished products
                        comprise, alongside the direct costs of production material and production wages, proportionate material
                        and production overhead costs based on standard capacity.


                        non-current assets held for sale
                        a non-current asset, or a disposal group, is classified as held for sale if the related carrying amount is realised
                        mainly by a sale transaction and not by continued use, and if the criteria pursuant to ifrs 5 in this regard are
                        met. if non-current assets or a disposal group are classified as held for sale, depreciation is ceased and the
                        company determines the fair value of such assets. if the fair value of the assets held for sale or the disposal
                        group, less the selling costs, is less than the net carrying amount of the assets, a write-down is made on the
                        fair value, less the selling costs. if the disposal plan changes and the criteria pursuant to ifrs 5 for an asset or
                        disposal group that were classified as held for sale are no longer met, they are no longer presented separately
                        but reclassified to the balance sheet item where they were originally recorded. they are valued at the lower
                        of the carrying amount before the asset or disposal group was classified as held for sale (as adjusted for any
                        subsequent depreciation, amortisation or revaluation that would have been recorded without classification as
                        held for sale) and their recoverable amount at the date of the decision not to sell.


                        property, plant and equipment
                        property, plant and equipment is, upon initial recognition, valued at cost. attributable borrowing costs
                        are capitalised as part of the cost of a qualifying asset pursuant to ias 23. a qualifying asset is an asset that
                        necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use. government grants for capital
                        investments reduce the cost of those assets for which the grant was awarded. in the subsequent periods,
                        property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. it is depreciated over its prob-
                        able economic life. immovable assets are mostly depreciated on a straight-line basis and movable assets are,
                        depending on their type of use, depreciated using either the straight-line method or, if so required by their
                        actual use, the declining method. when carrying out larger-scale maintenance, the costs are recognised in the
                        carrying amount of the item of property, plant or equipment, provided that recognition criteria are met.


                        the following useful lives are assumed for depreciation:

                        buildings and facilities                                   max. 50 years
                        machinery and equipment                                    3 – 15 years
                        factory and office equipment                               2 – 10 years
                        computer hardware                                          3 – 5 years

                                                                                                                      | consolidated financial statements            |   145

                                                                                                                       notes
                                                                                                                        1 | principles of consolidation as well as
                                                                                                                       		 summary of key accounting and
                                                                                                                       		 valuation methods




leased installations are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the respective shorter period of the term of
the lease or the estimated ordinary useful life.
  a property, plant or equipment is derecognised either when it is disposed of or when no further econom-
ic benefit is to be expected from either the use or disposal of the asset. the gains or losses resulting from
derecognition are determined as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount
and are, in the period in which the asset is derecognised, recorded in the income statement.
  the residual values of the assets, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed at the end of the
financial year, and if necessary adjusted.


leases
leases are classified as either finance or operating. leasing transactions whereby leoni is the lessee and bears
all substantial risks and rewards typical of ownership from use of the leased asset are accounted for as finance
leases. accordingly, the lessee capitalises the leased asset and records the corresponding lease obligation
on the balance sheet at the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum
lease payments. the leased asset is depreciated over its economic life. if there is no reasonable certainty at the
beginning of the lease that the group will obtain ownership, the leased asset is depreciated in full over the
shorter of the two periods of the expected useful life and the term of the lease. lease payments are appor-
tioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of
interest on the remaining balance of the liability. finance charges are recognised in the income statement. all
other leasing agreements entered into by leoni, as a lessee, are accounted for as operating leases. the lease
payments are expensed on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
  whether an arrangement contains a lease is determined on the basis of the arrangement’s economic sub-
stance at the time it was concluded and requires an assessment whether meeting the contractual arrange-
ment depends on the use of a certain asset or certain assets and whether the arrangement gives the right to
use the asset.


intangible assets
intangible assets comprise patents, software, licenses and similar rights, as well as customer relationships,
brands, technology and production know-how acquired in the context of business combinations. an intan-
gible asset that results from development expenditure is capitalised if a newly developed product or process
can be clearly defined, is technically feasible and is intended for either own use or for sale. capitalisation also
assumes that the development expenses can with a sufficient degree of likelihood be covered with future
inflow of cash and cash equivalents and the other ias 38.57 criteria are met.
  intangible assets acquired separately are, upon initial recognition, valued at cost. the costs of intangible
assets acquired as part of business combinations equal their fair values as at the date of acquisition. in the
subsequent periods, intangible assets are carried at their cost less any accumulated depreciation and any
accumulated impairment losses. measurement in the subsequent periods should differentiate between intan-
gible assets with a finite useful life and with an indefinite useful life.

146 |   www.leoni.com




                        according to ias 38, intangible assets with a finite useful life must be amortised over their useful life. the
                        company therefore, in accordance with these requirements, amortises development costs capitalised as
                        assets on a straight-line basis and amortises other intangible assets with a finite useful life on a straight-line
                        basis over their useful lives to their estimated residual values, which is normally nil. other intangible assets
                        with a finite useful life are mainly software licenses with an estimated useful life of three years as well as cus-
                        tomer relationships with useful lives of six to 23 years as well as technology and production know-how with a
                        useful life of five to 15 years, in both cases acquired in the context of business combinations. the amortisation
                        method and the amortisation period for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed, at least, at
                        the end of each financial year. any changes to the amortisation method and the amortisation period due to
                        revision of the expected useful life or the expected use of the asset’s future economic benefit are treated as
                        changes in estimates.
                          according to ias 38, intangible assets with an indefinite useful life have no longer been amortised; instead
                        such intangible assets must, according to ias 36, be reviewed for impairment at least annually and written
                        down to their lower recoverable amount. the review is carried out as at 31 october of each year according
                        to the same principles as in the case of goodwill. the remarks below therefore apply accordingly. intangible
                        assets with an indefinite useful life are reviewed once a year to determine whether the estimate of assessment
                        of an indefinite useful life is still justified. if this is not the case, the assessment is prospectively changed from
                        an indefinite to a definite useful life. leoni recorded brands acquired in the context of business combinations
                        as intangible assets with an indefinite useful life.
                          intangible assets are derecognised when they are disposed of or when no further economic benefit is to be
                        expected from either their use or disposal.


                        goodwill
                        goodwill from a business combination is, upon initial recognition, measured at cost calculated as the excess of
                        the transferred consideration over the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. after initial recogni-
                        tion, goodwill is measured at the acquisition cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
                          goodwill is not amortised; instead it is in line with the requirements of ias 36 reviewed for impairment at
                        least once a year. the group reviews the goodwill for impairment annually as at 31 october. a review also
                        takes place if events or circumstances indicate that there might be an impairment loss. for the purpose of the
                        impairment test, goodwill acquired in the context of a business combination is, from the acquisition date, to
                        be allocated to the group’s cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the business com-
                        bination. this applies regardless of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquired business are allocated to
                        these cash-generating units. goodwill is tested at the level of the cash-generating unit to which it is allo-
                        cated by comparing the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit or units with the recoverable amount.
                        impairment has occurred if the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, requiring a write-down
                        to the recoverable amount. the recoverable amount corresponds to the higher of the two amounts from the
                        fair value less cost to sell and value in use. the value in use of a cash-generating unit is defined as the present
                        value of projected cash flows to the company from the cash-generating unit. to determine the value in use,

                                                                                                                     | consolidated financial statements            |   147

                                                                                                                      notes
                                                                                                                       1 | principles of consolidation as well as
                                                                                                                      		 summary of key accounting and
                                                                                                                      		 valuation methods




the projected cash flows are discounted to their present value based on a discount rate before tax that reflects
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash-generating unit. an
appropriate valuation model is applied to determine the fair value less cost to sell. this is based on valuation
multiples, discounted cash-flow valuation models, stock market prices and other available indicators of the
fair value.
   later reversal based on disappearance of the reason for a goodwill impairment recorded in previous finan-
cial years or interim reporting periods is not permitted.


impairment testing of intangible assets with a finite life and of property, plant and equipment
an assessment is made at each balance sheet date whether there are any indications that an impairment loss
may have occurred. if there are such indications, the recoverable amount of the asset is determined and com-
pared with its carrying amount. the system for and effects of this review are in line with the test of goodwill
(see comments on goodwill above).
   if specific cash flows generated largely independently from other assets or groups of assets cannot be
allocated to the individual assets, they are tested for impairment based on the smallest, overriding cash-gen-
erating unit of assets.
   if the reasons for applying the impairment charge have disappeared, the write-down on the asset is re-
versed. such reversal is limited to the amount that would have resulted when taking amortisation or impair-
ment into account.
   regardless of whether there is evidence of impairment, a corresponding test for impairment is applied once
a year to both intangible assets that are not yet ready for use and intangible assets with an indefinite useful
life.


financial instruments
a financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to both a financial asset of one enterprise and a financial
liability or equity instrument of another enterprise. financial instruments recorded as either financial assets
or financial liabilities are as a matter of principle presented separately. they are reported on a net basis only
where a right of set-off with respect to the amounts exists at the present time and it is intended to settle net.
   financial instruments are recognised as soon as leoni becomes a contracting party to the financial instru-
ment. in the case of regular way purchases or sales in the context of a contract whose conditions provide for
the asset to be delivered within a period of time that is normally determined by the rules or conventions of the
respective market, the settlement date, i.e. the date on which the asset is supplied to or by leoni, is pertinent
to initial recognition as well as derecognition.
   financial assets comprise in particular cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables as well as other orig-
inated loans and receivables, financial instruments held to maturity as well as both primary and derivative
financial assets held for trading purposes.

148 |   www.leoni.com




                        financial liabilities normally provide a claim for return in cash or another financial asset. these comprise
                        particularly bonds and other securitised liabilities, trade liabilities, liabilities to banks, liabilities under finance
                        leases, borrower’s note loans and derivative financial liabilities.


                        financial assets are derecognised when one of the three following conditions is met:
                        ■■   the contractual rights to receive the cash flows from a financial asset are extinguished.
                        ■■   although the group retains the rights to receive the cash flows from financial assets, it assumes a contrac-
                             tual obligation to immediately pay the cash flows to a third party in the context of an agreement that meets
                             the requirements of ias 39.19 (“pass-through arrangement”).
                        ■■   the group has transferred its contractual rights to receive the cash flows from a financial asset and substan-
                             tially all the risks and rewards incident to ownership of the financial asset have thereby been transferred, or
                             alternatively when control of the financial asset has been transferred.


                        cash receipts from the sale of receivables that were not yet passed on to the buyer of the receivables on the
                        balance sheet date are reported under other financial liabilities.
                             financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation underlying the liability has been met, terminated
                        or extinguished.
                             financial instruments are initially recognised at their fair value. the assumption or issue of directly attrib-
                        utable transaction costs is considered when determining the carrying amount if the financial instruments are
                        not measured at fair value through profit or loss.
                             for subsequent measurement the financial instruments are allocated to one of the measurement categories
                        listed in ias 39 to which they are designated at the time of their initial recognition.


                        financial assets
                        financial assets are divided into the following categories:

                        ■■   financial assets remeasured to fair value through profit or loss
                             this category comprises financial assets held for trading (fahft) and financial assets that were, upon initial
                             recognition, designated as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (fvtpl). financial assets are
                             classified as held for trading if they are acquired and held with a view to disposal in the near future. deriva-
                             tives, including embedded derivatives recognised separately, are also classified as held for trading with the
                             exception of such derivatives that were designated as a hedging instrument and are effective as such.
                             gains or losses on financial assets of this category are recognised in the income statement.
                               neither in the 2014 financial year nor in the previous year did the company classify any primary finan-
                             cial assets as held for trading, nor did it make use of the option to designate financial assets at fair value
                             through profit or loss upon their initial recognition.

                                                                                                                      | consolidated financial statements            |   149

                                                                                                                       notes
                                                                                                                        1 | principles of consolidation as well as
                                                                                                                       		 summary of key accounting and
                                                                                                                       		 valuation methods




■■   held-to-maturity investments
     held-to-maturity investments (htm) are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable pay-
     ments and fixed maturity that an enterprise has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity. they
     are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. gains or losses are recognised in
     net profit or loss when the financial asset is derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation
     process.
       the group had financial assets of this category in neither fiscal 2014 nor the previous year.

■■   loans and receivables
     loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not
     quoted in an active market. following initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at amortised
     cost using the effective interest rate method less any impairment.
       valuation allowances are made when receivables are uncollectible or probably uncollectible and a relia-
     ble estimate of the valuation allowance can be made. there is need for valuation allowance when there are
     objectively discernable indications such as receivables overdue for a prolonged period, initiation of foreclo-
     sure measures, looming default or overindebtedness as well as insolvency proceedings having been applied
     for or commenced. trade receivables with usual payment terms, which normally do not exceed twelve
     months, are therefore recognised at the nominal amount, less appropriate allowances. receivables that do
     not bear interest or bear below market interest rates and have an expected term of more than one year are
     discounted with the discount subsequently amortised to interest income over the term of the receivable.
     impairment of trade receivables as well as receivables from long-term development contracts is recognised
     in separate impairment accounts. impairment losses of all other financial assets are recognised directly.
       gains or losses are recognised in the income statement when the loans and receivables are derecognised
     or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.

■■   available-for-sale financial assets
     available-for-sale financial assets (afs) are non-derivative financial assets that are designated as available
     for sale and are not classified in one of the aforementioned categories. they must be measured at their
     fair value. the gains or losses resulting from valuation at fair value are recorded separately as accumulat-
     ed other comprehensive income within equity. if there are significant loss events or, in the case of equity
     instruments, losses ongoing over a longer period, this will be expensed accordingly in the income state-
     ment. the group assumes there to be a significant loss event involving impairment of more than 20 percent
     and prolonged decline in value of equity instruments to be probable when there has been continued loss
     in value over a period of twelve months. later reversals of impairment on available-for-sale financial assets
     are as a matter of principle recorded as accumulated other comprehensive income. only in the case of debt
     instruments are reversals recognised in the income statement up to the original amount of impairment,

150 |   www.leoni.com




                          with any amounts above that recorded as accumulated other comprehensive income. provided that there
                          is no quoted market price in an active market for investments in equity instruments and that their fair value
                          cannot be reliably measured, they are carried at acquisition cost. a write-down to the present value of the
                          future cash flows is made in the case of a decline in value other than temporary.


                        financial liabilities
                        financial liabilities that fall into the category of “financial assets at fair value through profit or loss” are also
                        carried at fair value in the subsequent periods with the resulting gains or losses recognised in the income
                        statement.
                          this category comprises financial liabilities held for trading (flhft) as well as liabilities that were, upon
                        initial recognition, designated as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (fvtpl). financial liabil-
                        ities are classified as held for trading if they are acquired and held with a view to disposal in the near future.
                        derivatives, including embedded derivatives recognised separately, are also classified as held for trading with
                        the exception of such derivatives that were designated as a hedging instrument and are effective as such.
                          neither in the 2014 financial year nor in the previous did the company classify any primary financial liabili-
                        ties as held for trading, nor did it make use of the option to designate financial liabilities at fair value through
                        profit or loss (fvtpl) upon their initial recognition.
                          all financial liabilities that do not fall into this category and are not derivative financial instruments are
                        measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method financial liabilities at amortised cost
                        (flac). in the case of current liabilities, the amortised cost corresponds to either their repayment or settle-
                        ment value. gains or losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised or
                        amortised.


                        cash and cash equivalents
                        cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, cheques and immediately disposable bank deposits with an
                        original maturity of three months or less. cash is recognised at par value.


                        derivative financial instruments and hedging activities
                        derivative financial instruments entered into by the leoni group are recorded at their fair value on the bal-
                        ance sheet date. depending on their maturity, derivatives with a positive fair value are reported as current or
                        non-current other financial assets and derivates with a negative fair value are reported as current or non-cur-
                        rent other financial liabilities. in general, the group recognises the changes in fair value of derivative financial
                        instruments as earnings. however, the group records changes in fair value of foreign currency derivatives
                        used to hedge anticipated foreign currency-denominated cash flows on firm commitments and forecast trans-
                        actions in accumulated other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognised in earnings when
                        the requirements of the standard to apply cash flow hedge accounting are met. the reclassification from accu-
                        mulated other comprehensive income into earnings occurs in the same period as the underlying transaction

                                                                                                                      | consolidated financial statements            |   151

                                                                                                                       notes
                                                                                                                        1 | principles of consolidation as well as
                                                                                                                       		 summary of key accounting and
                                                                                                                       		 valuation methods




takes place and has effect on net income. the ineffective portions of the fair value changes of those deriva-
tives are recognised in earnings immediately. the fair value changes of interest rate derivatives designated
to hedge non-current liabilities subject to interest rate fluctuation are also recognised in accumulated other
comprehensive or directly in equity if they meet the requirements to apply cash flow hedge accounting.
the amounts recorded in other comprehensive income subsequently lead to the interest expenditure from
the relevant underlying transaction recorded in the income statement being balanced. where interest-rate
derivative contracts are concluded to hedge the fair value of a hedged item measured at amortised cost, the
hedging instrument is measured at the fair value and any changes in fair value are recognised in the income
statement under either finance costs or finance revenue.
  commodity future transactions that are settled in cash are recognised as derivatives, changes in the fair
value of which are recognised in the cost of sales.
  contracts entered into for the purpose of receipt or supply of non-financial items according to the group’s
expected purchase, sale or usage requirements and held as such (own use contracts) are reported not as
derivative financial instruments but as pending transactions.
  if contracts contain embedded derivatives, such derivatives are reported separately from the host con-
tract when the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative are not closely related to the
economic characteristics and risks of the host contract. the review whether a contract contains an embedded
derivative that must be reported separately from the host contract is made at the time when the company
became a contracting party. a reassessment is made only when there are major changes to the terms of the
contract that result in a significant change to the cash flows.


accruals
accruals are also reported under liabilities. accruals are liabilities to pay for goods or services that have been
received but have not been paid or invoiced by the supplier.


pension and other post-employment benefits
the valuation of defined-benefit pension obligations is based upon actuarial computations using the project-
ed-unit-credit method in accordance with ias 19. changes due to the actuarial assumptions or differences
between the actual development and the original assumptions as well as gains or losses on the pension plan
or plan assets (actuarial gains or losses) as a difference between the return on plan assets recorded in net
interest expenses and the actual return are recognised in other comprehensive income. past service costs are
recognised in the income statement at the time of the change to the plan.
  the amount recognised as a defined benefit asset or liability comprises the present value of the defined
benefit obligation, less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly. the
value of a defined benefit asset is limited to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form
of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
  the interest costs relating to the net obligation are presented under finance costs.

152 |   www.leoni.com




                        other provisions
                        other provisions are recorded when a present legal or constructive obligation to a third party has been
                        incurred from past events, the payment is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. so far as
                        the group expects repayment for an accrued provision at least in part for example from an insurance policy,
                        such repayment is recognised as a separate asset provided the inflow of the repayment is virtually certain.
                        the provisions are valued according to ias 37 with the best estimate of the amount of the obligation. where
                        provisions do not become due until after one year and a reliable estimate of the payment amounts and dates
                        is possible, the present value for the non-current proportion is determined on a discounted basis. accrued
                        interest is recognised under interest expense.
                          obligations to dispose of an asset and to re-cultivate its site or similar obligations must be recognised as a
                        component of acquisition and production costs and simultaneously recognised as a provision. in the subse-
                        quent periods this amount added to the asset is to be depreciated over its residual useful life. the best possi-
                        ble estimate of the payment obligation or provision is accreted to its present value at the end of each period.
                          restructuring provisions are recognised when the constructive obligation has arisen according to the crite-
                        ria under ias 37.72. accruals are not reported under provisions, but rather under liabilities.


                        restructuring cost
                        costs incurred in connection with restructuring measures are presented in other operating expenses because
                        such costs do not pertain to the general operating activity of the functional areas and this provides a trans-
                        parent picture of the group’s restructuring activity. a breakdown of this cost according to the functional areas
                        shown on the income statement is contained in note 6.


                        income taxes
                        the current tax assets and tax liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the amount expect-
                        ed to be recovered from the taxation authority or paid to the taxation authority. calculation of the amount is
                        based on the tax rates and tax laws in force on the balance sheet date.
                          deferred tax is, pursuant to ias 12, formed according to the balance sheet liability method. this provides
                        that tax assets and liabilities for all temporary differences, apart from the exceptions under ias 12.15, ias
                        12.24, ias 12.39 and ias 12.44, between the carrying amount in the statement of financial position and the
                        amount for tax purposes as well as for tax loss carryforwards are recognised (temporary concept). deferred
                        taxes are measured using the currently enacted tax rates in effect during the periods in which the temporary
                        differences are expected to reverse. the effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax law is
                        recognised in the period that the law is enacted. deferred tax assets are applied only to the extent that it is
                        more likely than not that the tax benefit will be realised. the deferred tax assets and those not recognised are
                        reviewed in this regard on each balance sheet date.

                                                                                                                      | consolidated financial statements            |   153

                                                                                                                       notes
                                                                                                                        1 | principles of consolidation as well as
                                                                                                                       		 summary of key accounting and
                                                                                                                       		 valuation methods




deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority
and the group has a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities.
  income taxes referring to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income are also recognised in
other comprehensive income and not in the income statement.


earnings per share
earnings per share are computed in accordance with ias 33, earnings per share. the basic earnings per share
are computed by dividing consolidated net income due to the leoni shareholders by the weighted average
of the number of ordinary shares outstanding during the relevant period. the diluted earnings per share are
computed by dividing consolidated net income attributable to the leoni shareholders by the total of the
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, plus the weighted average number of securities
that can be converted into ordinary shares. there was no dilution in the reporting periods presented.


statement of cash flows
the statement of cash flows is classified by operating, investing and financing activities in accordance with
ias 7. this involves cash flows from operating activities being determined by the indirect method whereby net
profit or loss is adjusted for the effects of transactions of a non-cash nature, any deferrals or accruals of past
or future operating cash receipts or payments, and items of income or expense associated with investing or
financing cash flows. undistributed income from entities valued under the equity method and exchange gains
or losses reclassified from other comprehensive income to the income statement is principally reported under
“other non-cash expenses and income”. interest paid and interest and dividends received are classified as
cash flows from operating activities. dividends paid are classified as a financing cash flow. the cash holdings
comprise cash and cash equivalents. these include cash in hand, cheques and immediately disposable bank
deposits with an original maturity of up to three months. the effect of exchange rate-related changes in value
on cash and cash equivalents is presented separately so that the cash and equivalents at the beginning and
end of the period can be reconciled.


segment reporting
segment reporting is based on the accounting standard ifrs 8, operating segments, following the manage-
ment approach contained therein, which provides for reporting based on the internal organisational and
reporting structure as well as what management uses internally for evaluating segment performance. the
segment reporting and designation therefore follows the internal organisational and reporting structure of
the group. the group is organised into business units by products and services for the purpose of corporate
governance. the group therefore has two segments subject to reporting: wire & cable solutions and wiring
systems. management monitors the earnings before interest and taxes (ebit) separately to take decisions on
allocation of resources and to determine the profitability of the segments. the ebit is ascertained in line with
the accounting and valuation principles of the consolidated financial statements. it also contains the earnings
from measurement under the equity method of joint ventures and associates.

154 |   www.leoni.com




                        key judgments, estimates and assumptions
                        when preparing the consolidated financial statements management makes judgments, estimates and as-
                        sumptions that influence the amounts of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities as well as the expense and
                        income reported on the balance sheet date. the uncertainty that these assumptions and estimates involve
                        can, however, in future periods cause outcomes that result in major adjustment to the carrying amounts of the
                        assets and liabilities concerned.
                          the most significant assumptions concerning the future as well as other key sources of estimation uncer-
                        tainty at the balance sheet date, which present a risk that material adjustment to the carrying amounts of the
                        assets and liabilities will be necessary within the next financial year, are explained hereinafter.
                          impairment testing of goodwill, intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and of non-current assets
                        with a finite useful life is based on calculation of the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use
                        and fair value less cost to sell. to estimate the value in use the group must estimate the probable future cash
                        flows of the cash-generating units to which the non-current asset or goodwill relates, and moreover choose
                        a reasonable interest rate to compute the present value of these cash flows (discounted cash flow method).
                        the cash flows are extrapolated from the business planning for the next five financial years, excluding any re-
                        structuring measures to which the group has not yet committed and material, future capital expenditure that
                        would raise the performance of the cash-generating units tested. the business planning is prepared on a bot-
                        tom-up basis taking targets into account, meaning that the budgeted figures are prepared in detail for each
                        business unit or business group and subsidiary and condensed to the segments and the group as a whole. key
                        planning assumptions are based on the unit-sales projections issued by the carmakers. it takes into account
                        price agreements based on experience and anticipated efficiency enhancements as well as a sales trend based
                        on the strategic outlook. the recoverable amount is heavily dependent on the projected unit sales and on the
                        discount rate applied under the discounted cash flow method.
                          the estimate of fair value less cost to sell differs from the value in use only through the treatment of the
                        measured asset as a business operation not belonging to the group. the assumptions and parameters applied
                        to ascertain the recoverable amount and the details of the impairment tests are explained more thoroughly in
                        notes 16, 17 and 18.
                          management must, with respect to accounting for capitalised deferred taxes relating mainly to unused
                        loss carryforwards, make estimates and judgments concerning future tax planning strategies, the expected
                        timing and the amount of taxable profit available in the future for use of the loss carryforwards. deferred tax
                        assets are recognised to the extent that deferred tax liabilities in the same amount and with the same term
                        applicable to them are expected. furthermore, deferred tax assets are recognised only if future taxable in-
                        come is with high probability expected that is sufficient to use the deferred tax assets from loss carryforwards
                        and temporary differences. for this judgment the taxable income is extrapolated from the business planning
                        that has been prepared according to the principles described above. due to the mounting uncertainty about
                        the future, the period under consideration is normally three years. in the case of entities in loss situations,

                                                                                                                         | consolidated financial statements   |   155

                                                                                                                          notes
                                                                                                                            2 | new accounting requirements




deferred tax assets are not recognised until there are signs of a turnaround or it is highly probable that the
future positive results can be generated. rules on limiting the use of losses (minimum taxation) are observed
when measuring the valuation allowances for deferred tax assets from loss carryforwards. further details are
presented in note 9.
     the pension expense pertaining to defined benefit plans post employment is determined based upon actu-
arial computations. these measurements are based on assumptions and judgments with respect to discount
rates applied to the net obligation, future wage and salary increases, mortality and future pension increases.
due to the non-current nature of such plans, such estimates are subject to material uncertainties. details of
these uncertainties and sensitivities are presented in note 24.



2 | new accounting requirements

new accounting requirements applied for the first time in the financial year

■■   in may 2011, with ifrs 10, consolidated financial statements, ifrs 11, joint arrangements, ifrs 12, dis-
     closure of interest in other entities, as well as consequential amendments to ias 27, separate financial
     statements, and ias 28, investments in associates, the international accounting standards board (iasb)
     issued updates and improvements to the accounting as well as disclosure requirements concerning consoli-
     dation, joint arrangements or jointly controlled entities, associates and structured entities / special purpose
     entities.


     −−ifrs 10, consolidated financial statements, replaces the requirements under the previous ias 27, consol-
       idated and separate financial statements, on consolidated financial statements and sic-12, consolidation
       – special purpose entities. ifrs 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including
       special purpose entities. application for the first time of ifrs 10 did not have any effect on consolidation
       of the investments held by the group.
     −−ifrs 11, joint arrangements, replaces ias 31, interests in joint ventures, and the interpretation sic-13,
       jointly-controlled entities – non-monetary contributions by venturers. ifrs 11 removes the option to
       account for jointly controlled entities (jces) using proportionate consolidation. instead, jces that meet
       the definition of a joint venture must be accounted for using the equity method. ifrs 11 did not have any
       effect on the consolidated financial statements.
     −−ifrs 12, disclosure of interests in other entities, includes all the disclosures that were previously in ias 27
       related to consolidated financial statements, as well as all of the disclosures that were previously included
       in ias 31 and ias 28. these disclosures relate to an entity’s interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements,
       associates and structured entities.
     −−the scope of ias 27, separate financial statements, (as revised in 2011) was, with adoption of ifrs 10
       and ifrs 12, limited to accounting for subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates in separate
       financial statements.

156 |   www.leoni.com




                             −−as a consequence of the new ifrs 11 and ifrs 12, the scope of ias 28, investments in associates and joint
                               ventures (as revised in 2011), was extended, in addition to associates, also to application of the equity
                               method to investments in joint ventures.

                        ■■   in december 2011, the iasb issued amendments to ias 32, financial instruments: presentation. the amend-
                             ments contain a clarification in the offsetting rules. furthermore, additional application guidelines on
                             offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities were adopted in the standard. these amendments did
                             not have any effect on the consolidated financial statements.

                        ■■   in june 2013, the iasb issued amendments to ias 39, financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
                             under the amendments there would be no need to discontinue hedge accounting if a hedging derivative
                             was novated, provided certain criteria are met. these changes are to be applied to financial years begin-
                             ning on or after 1 january 2014. these amendments did not have any effect on the consolidated financial
                             statements.


                        several minor amendments and clarifications involving various other standards also apply for the first time
                        to the year 2014. however, they did not have any effect on either the consolidated financial statements or the
                        interim consolidated financial statements.


                        future, new accounting requirements


                        a) the following accounting requirements endorsed by the european union (eu) were not applied
                             because application will only become obligatory in future periods:

                        ■■   in may 2013, the iasb issued ifric 21, levies. the interpretation clarifies for levies that are imposed by
                             governments and do not fall within the scope of another ifrs how, and especially when, such liabilities
                             according to ias 37, provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets, are to be recognised. the re-
                             quirement must be applied in the eu for the first time to financial years beginning on or after 17 june 2014,
                             though the eu does permit early application in accordance with the iasb’s date of initial application from
                             1 january 2014.

                        ■■   in november 2013, the iasb issued amendments to ias, employee benefits. the amendment governs the
                             recognition of contributions from employers or third parties to the pension plan as a reduction in the
                             service cost, provided this is reflected in the related service rendered during the reporting period. these
                             changes are to be applied to financial years beginning on or after 1 july 2014. early application is permitted;
                             the standard is to be applied retrospectively.

                                                                                                                         | consolidated financial statements   |   157

                                                                                                                          notes
                                                                                                                            2 | new accounting requirements




■■   in december 2013, the iasb issued two omnibus standards with annual improvements: “improvements to
     ifrss 2010 – 2012” and “improvements to ifrss 2011 – 2013” involving a total of eleven amendments to nine
     standards. the iasb’s annual improvements process provides a mechanism to make non-urgent but nec-
     essary amendments to ifrs that address unintended consequences, conflicts or oversights. most of these
     changes are to be applied to financial years beginning on or after 1 july 2014.


the requirements to be applied in the future are unlikely to exert any material effect on presentation of the
group’s financial position, performance or cash flows.


b) the european union (eu) has not yet endorsed the following accounting requirements issued by either
     the iasb or ifric:

■■   on 24 july 2014, the iasb published the final version of ifrs 9 financial instruments (ifrs 9 [2014]), bringing
     together all phases of the ifrs 9 project and superseding both ias 39 financial instruments: recognition
     and measurement and all previous versions of ifrs 9 financial instruments. the standard contains new
     requirements concerning classification and measurement, impairment as well as hedge accounting. ifrs 9
     is to be applied for the first time to financial years beginning on or after 1 january 2018. early application is
     – provided the european union has endorsed the standard – permitted at any time.

■■   in may 2014, the iasb published the new ifrs 15, revenue from contracts with customers. the standard
     introduces a new five-step model for revenue recognition, which is to be applied to all revenues from
     contracts with customers. the core principle of the standard is that an entity will recognise revenue to
     depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the considera-
     tion to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. the principles in
     ifrs 15 provide a structured approach to measurement and recognition of sales revenues. the scope of
     the standard covers all kinds of sectors and entities and therefore supersedes all existing requirements
     concerning revenue recognition (ias 11 construction contracts, ias 18 revenue, ifric 13 customer loyalty
     programmes, ifric 15 agreements for the construction of real estate, ifric 18 transfers of assets from
     customers and sic 31 revenue – barter transactions involving advertising services). this standard is to be
     applied for the first time to financial years beginning on or after 1 january 2017. early application is permit-
     ted; the standard is to be applied retrospectively.

■■   in september 2014, the iasb published amendments to ifrs 10 and ias 28. the amendments address
     inconsistencies between the requirements in ifrs 10 and those in ias 28 concerning the loss of control over
     a subsidiary that is sold or contributed to an associate or joint venture. the amendment clarifies that the
     investor must recognise a full gain or loss on the sale or contribution of assets to an associate or joint

158 |   www.leoni.com




                             venture, provided the assets constitute a business as defined in ifrs 3. so far as an entity retains an interest
                             in a former subsidiary that does not operate a business as defined by ifrs 3 after the loss of control, the
                             gain or loss on remeasurement of the retained interest at fair value is recognised only to the extent of unre-
                             lated investors’ interests. these changes are to be applied to financial years beginning on or after 1 january
                             2016. early application is permitted; the changes are to be applied prospectively.

                        ■■   in may 2014, the iasb issued additions to ifrs 11, joint arrangements, that require the acquirer of an inter-
                             est in a joint operation in which the activity constitutes a business, as defined in ifrs 3 business combina-
                             tions, to apply all the principles on business combinations accounting in ifrs 3 and other standards and to
                             make the disclosures for business combinations required by these standards. it furthermore makes clear
                             that any previously held interest in a joint operation would not be remeasured if the joint operator acquires
                             an additional interest while retaining joint control. an exception to the scope of application was also adopt-
                             ed, which is intended to clarify that the amendments shall not be applied when the parties (including the
                             reporting entity) that exercise joint control are under the common control of one party. the amendment
                             applies to both first-time acquisition of interest in a joint operation and acquisition of further interest in the
                             same joint operation. these additions are to be applied to financial years beginning on or after 1 january
                             2016. early application is permitted; the changes are to be applied prospectively.

                        ■■   in september 2014, the iasb issued the omnibus standard “improvements to ifrss 2012-2014” as part of its
                             annual improvement process. the requirement contains five amendments to four standards and is to be
                             applied for the first time to financial years beginning on or after 1 january 2016.


                        application of the above requirements will be binding in the future so far as they are endorsed by the eu.
                        the group is analysing the impact of these amended and new requirements. the current status of analysis
                        does not yet permit comment concerning the probable impact of the amended requirements on the group’s
                        financial position and performance.
                             the iasb also issued amendments other than the aforementioned updates and additions. however, these
                        are not relevant to leoni and are not mentioned for this reason.

                                                                                                               | consolidated financial statements          |   159

                                                                                                                notes
                                                                                                                  3 | scope of consolidation
                                                                                                                  4 | acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries




3 | scope of consolidation

along with leoni ag, the consolidated financial statements account for 20 companies in germany and 62
companies outside germany in which leoni ag is entitled, either directly or indirectly, to a majority of the
voting rights.


number of fully consolidated companies
                                         31/12/2014      31/12/2013
germany                                          21              21
outside                                         62              63
total                                           83              84



two chinese companies as well as two russian companies were merged into respectively one legal entity
during the period under report. newly established companies in paraguay and moldova were included within
the scope of consolidation; a thai subsidiary that no longer operates was liquidated.
  a complete list of the fully consolidated subsidiaries as well as of the associates and joint ventures on
31 december 2014 is shown at the end of these notes.



4 | acquisitions and disposals of subsidiaries

fiscal 2014:
there were no business acquisitions or disposals during the current reporting period.


fiscal 2013:
the lyonese wares operations of the wire & cable solutions division in italy were sold in july 2013 in the
context of an asset deal for € 120 k. the transaction incurred a loss on disposal of € 882 k.

160 |   www.leoni.com




                        explanations


                        5 | segment reporting

                        the group is organised into business units by products and services for the purpose of corporate governance.
                        the segment reporting follows the internal organisational and reporting structure of the group. the group
                        has two segments subject to reporting:


                        wire & cable solutions
                        the wire & cable solutions division covers development, manufacture and sale of wires, strands, tapes
                        and optical fibers for cable production and electrical as well as electromechanical components, of lyonese
                        wares for textiles as well as cables, conductors and cable systems for the automotive and electrical appliance
                        industries, data and communications technology, the professional multimedia segment, the healthcare sector,
                        automation and process technology, machinery and plant engineering, major industrial plants, the solar
                        industry, infrastructure projects as well as services in the field of irradiation crosslinking. the products meet
                        both german and international standards as well as customer specifications. the conductive material most
                        commonly used is copper, but the division also produces fiber optic cable based on both glass and polymer
                        fiber.


                        wiring systems
                        the activity of the wiring systems division is focused on the development, production and sale of complete
                        wiring systems and ready-to-install cable harnesses for passenger cars and commercial vehicles. in addition
                        to conventional cable harnesses, the division also manufactures pre-formed cable harnesses, plastic moulded
                        components, electronic wiring system components as well as ready-to-connect single cables with matching
                        connectors and fixings.


                        management monitors the earnings before interest and taxes (ebit) to take decisions on allocation of re-
                        sources and to determine the profitability of the units. the ebit is ascertained in line with the accounting and
                        valuation principles of the consolidated financial statements. it also contains the earnings from measurement
                        under the equity method of joint ventures and associates.
                          the roce (return on capital employed) is a key return figure on the basis of which management moni-
                        tors the profitability of the segments. it is derived from the ratio of ebit to average capital employed (ce),
                        which comprises the non-interest-bearing assets less non-interest-bearing liabilities. the calculation uses the
                        amount of capital employed at its average of the past five quarterly reporting dates.
                          intersegment sales and revenues are generally recorded at values that approximate sales to third parties.

                                                                                                                                                                             | consolidated financial statements         |   161

                                                                                                                                                                               notes
                                                                                                                                                                                5 | segment reporting




the details by segment for the 2014 and 2013 financial years are as follows:

                                                                            wire & cable solutions              wiring systems division                    reconciliation                    leoni group
[ € ‘000 ]                                                                         2014              2013              2014              2013               2014             2013            2014             2013
sales                                                                        1,857,684         1,760,982         2,399,845          2,321,100          (154,095)         (164,196)       4,103,434        3,917,886
less intersegment sales                                                        153,870            164,070                225               126         (154,095)         (164,196)              —                  —
external sales                                                               1,703,814         1,596,912          2,399,620         2,320,974                  —                —        4,103,434        3,917,886
     domestic                                                                  397,752            385,062           710,597           703,911                   0                0      1,108,349        1,088,973
     abroad                                                                  1,306,062          1,211,850         1,689,023         1,617,063                   0                0      2,995,085        2,828,913
     abroad in %                                                                    76.7              75.9              70.4              69.7                                                73.0             72.2
ebit                                                                            78,059             47,148           104,580            116,115              (134)            (118)        182,505           163,145
     as a percentage of external sales                                               4.6               3.0               4.4                5.0                                                 4.4                4.2
     financial result and other investment income                                                                                                                                         (31,786)          (31,925)
     income before tax                                                                                                                                                                     150,719          131,220
     income taxes                                                                                                                                                                         (35,659)          (25,324)
     consolidated income                                                                                                                                                                  115,060           105,896
earnings from measurement under the equity method                                      0                 0               201              (261)                 0                0             201             (261)
depreciation and amortisation                                                   42,790             40,892            75,073             74,990             5,529             5,110        123,392           120,992
ebitda                                                                         120,849            88,040            179,653            191,105             5,395             4,992        305,897           284,137
     as a percentage of external sales                                               7.1               5.5                7.5               8.2                                                 7.5                7.3
restructuring expenses                                                              926             8,894                863           12,648                   0                0           1,789           21,542
total assets                                                                 1,090,010            999,785         1,569,592         1,442,091               7,579        (42,160)        2,667,181       2,399,716
average capital employed 1                                                     627,372            569,334           701,005           653,707               4,227           (1,392)     1,332,604        1,221,649
roce                                                                             12.4 %             8.3 %            14.9 %             17.8 %                                              13.7 %           13.4 %
investment in property, plant and equipment
as well as intangible assets                                                     67,954            57,118           139,225           100,195              8,584            11,065         215,763          168,378
average number of employees                                                        8,509            8,066            57,505             52,221                241             223          66,255            60,510
1
    the average of the past five quarterly reporting dates has been applied since 2014. the previous year’s figures were adjusted accordingly for comparison purposes.




segment information by geographical regions:

                                              emea total                thereof:
                                                                                     germany                         eastern europe                       rest of europa                     rest of emea
[ € ‘000 ]                                   2014               2013               2014              2013              2014              2013               2014             2013            2014             2013
external sales
wire & cable solutions                  1,003,690            982,005           397,752            385,062           325,128           307,290           258,486          272,247            22,324           17,406
wiring systems division                 1,701,857          1,698,486           710,597            703,911           353,009           322,891           616,143          643,430            22,108           28,254
                                        2,705,547          2,680,491         1,108,349         1,088,973            678,137           630,181           874,629          915,677            44,432           45,660


non-current assets                        632,542            595,823           160,892            155,486           264,066           228,030           101,560          101,753          106,024           110,554




                                               americas                            asia/pacific                       leoni group


[ € ‘000 ]                                   2014               2013               2014              2013              2014              2013
external sales
wire & cable solutions                    338,010            320,546           362,114            294,361         1,703,814         1,596,912
wiring systems division                   283,407            253,542           414,356            368,946         2,399,620         2,320,974
                                          621,417            574,088           776,470            663,307         4,103,434         3,917,886


non-current assets                          90,720            65,702           170,131            130,971           893,393           792,496

162 |   www.leoni.com




                        the sales growth during the period under report was attributable particularly to the asia/pacific (up 17.1 per-
                        cent) and americas (up 8.2 percent) regions. china accounts for the most significant proportion of consolidat-
                        ed external sales in the asia/pacific region with a 14.2 percent (previous year: 13.1 percent) share while, in the
                        americas, the united states account for 9.9 percent (previous year: 9.8 percent).
                            the non-current assets segmented by region include the intangible assets and the property, plant and
                        equipment as well as investments in associated companies and joint ventures.
                            in the 2014 financial year, sales to one customer of the wiring systems division totalled € 481,957 k (previ-
                        ous year: € 395,178 k) and thus accounted for more than ten percent of consolidated sales.



                        6 | other operating income and other operating expenses

                        the other operating income breaks down as follows:

                        [ € ‘000 ]                                                                                2014                2013
                        government grants                                                                        8,435               5,951
                        reversal of provisions                                                                   1,561                  703
                        gains on disposals of property, plant and equipment as well as intangible assets           439                1,192
                        leases                                                                                     143                  166
                        others                                                                                   2,043               2,437
                                                                                                                12,621              10,449



                        the grants related to income of € 8,435 k pertained almost exclusively to the wiring systems division as in the
                        previous year (€ 5,951 k). more detailed explanation of this is to be found in note 7. the reversal of provisions
                        involved also exclusively restructuring provisions, with € 1,260 k (previous year: € 445 k) pertaining to the
                        wiring systems division and € 301 k (previous year: € 9 k) to the wire & cable solutions division.


                        the other operating expenses in the amount of € 11,987 k (previous year: € 31,315 k) contained the following:

                        [ € ‘000 ]                                                                                2014                2013
                        exchange losses                                                                          4,722                  606
                        factoring cost                                                                           2,973               2,884
                        restructuring cost                                                                       1,789              21,542
                        loss on disposals of property, plant and equipment as well as intangible assets          1,721               2,475
                        other taxes                                                                                132                  436
                        others                                                                                     650               3,372
                                                                                                                11,987              31,315

                                                                                                                    | consolidated financial statements      |   163

                                                                                                                     notes
                                                                                                                      6 | other operating income and other
                                                                                                                     		 operating expenses
                                                                                                                       7 | government grants




the restructuring expenses pertained in the amount of € 926 k (previous year: € 8,894 k) to the wire & cable
division and in the amount of € 863 k (previous year: € 12,648 k) to the wiring systems division. this involved
primarily spending on severance, which also includes the additions to restructuring provisions (cf. explana-
tions in note 23 in this regard). as in the previous year, in the wire & cable solutions division this involved
measures almost exclusively at german facilities. in the wiring systems division, this presents further meas-
ures relating to the closure of the plant in bouznika, morocco. the restructuring expenses related to the cost
of sales in the amount of € 1,582 k (previous year: € 17,401 k), to general administrative costs in the amount
of € 176 k (previous year: € 2,045 k) and to research and development costs in the amount of € 31 k (previous
year: € 383 k). selling expense of € 1,713 k were also included in the previous year.
  the exchange losses amounted to € 4,722 k (previous year: € 606 k) and pertained mainly to translation of
forex items of the russian and ukrainian companies. combined with the exchange losses on financing activity
in the amount of € 1,464 k (previous year: € 1,716 k), which were included in finance costs, there was an ex-
change loss totalling € 6,186 k (previous year: € 2,322 k).



7 | government grants

the group obtained various government grants related to income in the 2014 financial year. of these,
€ 1,396 k (previous year: € 1,768 k) pertained mainly to allowances for part-time working for older employees
and grants for research and development work. this income was directly offset in the income statement with
the expenses incurred.
  grants related to income in the amount of € 8,435 k (previous year: € 5,951 k), which pertained mainly to
the wiring systems division, were presented in other operating income. of this, € 3,319 k was attributable to
government grants for building plants in serbia and € 3,735 k to promotion of export business in egypt.
  in the 2014 financial year, the group was also granted a further € 2,625 k (previous year: € 5,251 k) in serbia
for building a second plant to produce wiring systems. these grants were presented under current liabilities
and will be recognised in profit or loss as soon as the corresponding costs for building the plant are incurred.
the grants obtained in serbia are also tied to the creation and three-year retention of jobs.

164 |   www.leoni.com




                        8 | finance revenue and costs

                        the financial result, i.e. the balance of finance revenue and costs, was in line with the previous year’s level.
                        favourable refinancing terms offset the increased interest expenses due to the larger average amount of debt.
                            the finance revenues involved entirely interest income in the amount of € 665 k (previous year: € 543 k). as
                        in the previous year, all interest income was computed on the basis of the effective interest rate method.


                        finance costs broke down as follows:

                        [ € ‘000 ]                                                                             2014                    2013
                        interest expenses                                                                     25,768                  26,512
                        finance cost from pension obligations                                                  4,318                   4,015
                        interest expense from measurement of other provisions                                  1,046                       486
                        exchange losses                                                                        1,463                   1,716
                        finance cost                                                                         32,595                  32,729



                        the interest expenses of € 23,266 k (previous year: € 22,971 k) included interest that was computed on the
                        basis of the effective interest rate method.



                        9 | income taxes

                        taxes on income including deferred taxes break down as follows in the income statements for fiscal 2014 and
                        fiscal 2013:

                        [ € ‘000 ]                                                                             2014                    2013
                        current taxes
                                       germany                                                                 3,289                   2,172
                                       outside                                                                36,855                 36,454
                                                                                                             40,144                  38,626
                        deferred taxes
                                       germany                                                               (3,904)                 (6,418)
                                       outside                                                                 (581)                 (6,884)
                                                                                                             (4,485)                (13,302)
                        income taxes                                                                         35,659                  25,324


                        in the 2014 financial year, the group recorded tax expenses of € 35,659 k (previous year: € 25,324 k) in the
                        income statement. tax income of € 12,595 k (previous year: tax expense of € 2,614 k) was recognised in other
                        comprehensive income.

                                                                                                                        | consolidated financial statements   |   165

                                                                                                                         notes
                                                                                                                           8 | finance revenue and costs
                                                                                                                           9 | income taxes




deferred tax assets and liabilities should be measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period
when the asset is realised or the liability is settled. for the group’s german companies, the deferred taxes on
31 december 2014 were calculated using a corporate tax rate of 15 percent, unchanged from the previous
year, for all temporary differences. a solidarity surcharge of 5.5 percent on the corporate tax as well as an av-
erage trade tax rate of 13.8 percent was included as in the previous year. including the impact of the solidarity
surcharge and the trade tax, the tax rate applied to calculate deferred taxes for german companies in line with
the previous year amounted to a combined 29.6 percent. for non-german companies the country-specific,
respective tax rates were used.
   in the financial year, changes to foreign tax rates were recognised in the income statement in the amount
of € 84 k (previous year: € 1,572 k). in the previous year the effect on income concerned mainly mexico and the
united kingdom. the reconciliation below takes the impact of each of these tax rate changes into account.
   the table below presents reconciliation between the tax expense expected in the respective financial year
and the actual tax expense reported as well as between the expected and applicable tax rates. to calculate
the projected income tax expense we multiplied the pre-tax earnings by the combined income tax rate in
germany of 29.6 percent (previous year: 29.6 percent) applicable to the financial year.


                                                                               2014                     2013
                                                                        [ € ‘000 ]     [%]      [ € ‘000 ]      [%]

expected tax expense (2014: 29.6 %; 2013: 29.6 %)                        44,613        29.6     38,841         29.6
foreign tax rate differentials                                          (16,278)      (10.8)   (15,893)        (12.1)
change in valuation allowances on deferred tax assets                     2,256         1.5      (1,064)       (0.8)
non-deductible expenses                                                   5,517         3.7       4,233          3.2
foreign tax at source                                                     1,456         1.0       1,946          1.5
prior-period tax income / expense                                       (2,977)       (2.0)     (3,317)        (2.5)
other                                                                     1,072         0.7          578         0.4
effective income taxes / tax rate                                       35,659        23.7      25,324         19.3




the change in valuation allowances on deferred tax assets in the amount of € 2,256 k (previous year:
negative € 1,064 k) in the fiscal year involved tax assets not capitalized in the amount of € 6,966 k (previous
year: € 7,400 k). as in the previous year, these valuation allowances concerned primarily deferred tax assets
from loss carryforwards to the extent it is considered less likely than not that such benefits will be used
in future years. in determining the valuation allowance all factors including legal factors and information
available were taken into account. deferred tax assets, which in preceding periods we applied primarily to loss
carryforwards, were written down in the amount of € 513 k (previous year: € 1,137 k). the change in valuation
allowances included reversal of valuation allowances on deferred tax assets with effect on the income state-
ment in the negative amount of € 5,095 k (previous year: a negative amount of € 6,963 k). the item included
a negative amount of € 128 k (previous year: negative € 2,638 k) for the use of loss carryforwards for which no
tax assets were recognised in the previous years.

166 |   www.leoni.com




                        the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities were derived from temporary differences recorded under
                        the following balance sheet items as well as tax loss carryforwards:

                                                                                 consolidated statement
                                                                                   of financial position             consolidated income statement
                        [ € ‘000 ]                                                    2014                 2013                2014           2013
                        inventories                                                   8,183             9,671                 (1,798)           627
                        accounts receivable and other assets                          6,352             2,931                  1,073          (997)
                        property, plant and equipment                                 4,423             3,715                    232          (136)
                        intangible assets                                               657                1,149                 (86)           (62)
                        non-current financial assets                                    469                 453                    5            (32)
                        tax loss carryforwards                                       77,535           65,273                  10,092         14,633
                        liabilities and provisions                                   15,068           15,013                      36         (2,213)
                        pension provisions                                           34,695           23,203                     757           486
                        total                                                       147,382          121,408
                        valuation allowance                                         (38,296)         (34,074)                 (5,145)       (3,805)
                        deferred tax assets (before offsetting)                     109,086           87,334

                        inventories                                                   7,900             8,434                    576          1,098
                        accounts receivable and other assets                          3,633             4,701                    730            260
                        property, plant and equipment                                29,553            27,512                 (1,597)           255
                        intangible assets                                            22,575           20,710                   (435)          2,466
                        non-current financial assets                                  8,333             6,381                 (2,772)          (135)
                        liabilities and provisions                                    1,384             4,573                  3,195            741
                        pension provisions                                            1,227                 851                (378)            116
                        deferred tax liabilities (before offsetting)                 74,605           73,162
                        deferred tax income / expense                                                                          4,485        13,302
                        net deferred tax assets / tax liabilities                    34,481           14,172


                        no deferred tax assets on temporary differences and tax loss carryforwards were recognised in the amount of
                        € 38,296 k (previous year: € 34,074 k).



                        the net amount of deferred tax assets and liabilities was derived as follows:

                        [ € ‘000 ]                                                                                   2014                     2013
                        deferred tax assets                                                                        110,300                   91,073
                        valuation allowance                                                                        (38,296)                 (34,074)
                        net deferred tax assets                                                                    72,004                   56,999
                        deferred tax liabilities                                                                    37,523                   42,827
                        net deferred tax assets / tax liabilities                                                  34,481                   14,172



                        deferred taxes on outside basis differences (differences between the net assets including goodwill of the sub-
                        sidiaries and the respective tax value of the shares in these subsidiaries) were not recognised because reversal
                        of differences arising for example from dividend payments can be managed and no material tax effects are
                        to be expected in the foreseeable future. outside basis differences amounted to € 334,458 k on 31 december
                        2014 (previous year: € 203,229 k).

                                                                                                                 | consolidated financial statements   |   167

                                                                                                                  notes
                                                                                                                    9 | income taxes




on the balance sheet date the group had mainly foreign income tax but also german corporate tax loss
carryforwards totalling € 258,428 k (previous year: € 222,225 k), of which € 116,958 k (previous year:
€ 121,677 k) may, based on legislation applicable on the respective reporting date, be carried forward indefi-
nitely and in unlimited amounts. however, losses carried forward in germany from the 2004 tax-assessment
year and in france from the 2011 tax-assessment year may be deducted from income without restriction up to
€ 1,000 k only. any remaining amount of income may be offset by loss carryforwards by up to 60 percent
(50 percent in france). the remaining tax losses eligible for limited carryforward pertained exclusively to
foreign subsidiaries and will expire by 2034 at the latest if not utilised.


the table below shows the usability of the loss carryforwards:

[ € ‘000 ]                                  2014
useable until       2015                   1,369
useable until       2016                     982
useable until       2017                     990
useable until       2018                   4,847
useable until       2019                   11,559
useable until       2020                   11,209
useable until       2021                  13,575
useable until       2022                  29,524
useable until       2023                  25,643
useable until       2024                  30,054
useable until       2025                      81
useable until       2026                     212
useable until       2027                    1,267
useable until       2031                   4,458
useable until       2032                       2
useable until       2033                     153
useable until       2034                   5,544



the group’s german trade tax loss carryforwards amounted to € 30,927 k on the balance sheet date (previous
year: € 30,013 k), all of which, based on legislation applicable on the respective balance sheet dates, may be
carried forward indefinitely and in unlimited amounts. the options to offset against future income correspond
to the corporate tax loss carryforwards.
    in the financial year, german trade tax loss carryforwards amounting to € 5,288 k (previous year: € 573 k)
and german corporate tax loss carryforwards amounting to € 239 k (previous year: € 573 k) were utilised.
foreign income tax loss carryforwards were used in the amount of € 12,399 k (previous year: € 12,485 k).

168 |   www.leoni.com




                        10 | other comprehensive income

                        the overview below shows the components of other comprehensive income and the tax effects:

                        01/01/ – 31/12/                                                2014                                  2013
                                                                             pre-tax                               pre-tax
                        [ € ‘000 ]                                          amount     tax effect   net amount    amount     tax effect   net amount


                        change in actuarial gains / losses                  (39,098)       9,899       (29,199)     2,405      (1,399)         1,006


                        foreign currency translation adjustments             38,992            0        38,992    (15,789)           2       (15,787)
                        change in fair value of securities
                        (available-for-sale financial assets)                      0           0             0       (137)          30         (107)


                        change in unrealised gains /
                        losses on cash flow hedges                           (4,512)       2,696        (1,816)      3,511      (1,247)        2,264
                        other comprehensive income                           (4,618)     12,595          7,977    (10,010)     (2,614)      (12,624)



                        changes in exchange rates and the effects of measuring pension obligations affected other comprehensive
                        income during the period under report. currency translation differences resulted in a positive effect of
                        € 38,992 k (previous year: a negative effect of € 15,789 k). this was attributable mainly to translation of the
                        chinese renminbi, the us dollar as well as the british pound sterling into the euro reporting currency. the
                        lower level of market interest rates reduced the discount rate on pension obligations particularly in germany,
                        switzerland as well as the united kingdom and resulted in actuarial losses in the amount of € 39,098 k (previ-
                        ous year: gains of € 2,405 k).
                            taking deferred taxes into account, the overall result was other comprehensive income of € 7,977 k (previ-
                        ous year: a negative amount of € 12,624 k).



                        11 | accounts receivable and other financial assets as well as
                        long-term receivables from development contracts

                        [ € ‘000 ]                                                                                   2014                      2013
                        trade receivables                                                                         544,936                   502,663
                        other financial assets                                                                      17,414                   19,531
                                                                                                                  562,350                   522,194


                        non-current trade receivables from development contracts                                   55,146                    46,931


                        trade receivables were non-interest bearing. on the balance sheet date, trade receivables were reduced by
                        factoring amounting to € 126,222 k (previous year: € 122,485 k).
                            the trade receivables pertaining to development orders involved customer-specific development contracts
                        accounted for in accordance with ias 11. the sales for the financial year include revenue amounting to
                        € 22,659 k (previous year: € 21,504 k) from such development contracts. the expenses recognised correspond-
                        ed to the sales.

                                                                                                                                             | consolidated financial statements     |    169

                                                                                                                                              notes
                                                                                                                                               10 | other comprehensive income
                                                                                                                                              11 | accounts receivable and other
                                                                                                                                              		 financial assets as well as long-term
                                                                                                                                              		 receivables from development contracts




the allowances for trade receivables were as follows:

[ € ‘000 ]                                                                                            2014                          2013

allowance as of 1 january                                                                            5,543                         7,155

currency translation adjustments                                                                       727                             4

additions (allowances recognised as expense)                                                          3,019                        1,624

usage                                                                                                 (726)                       (1,241)

reversal                                                                                             (1,428)                      (1,999)

allowance as of 31 december                                                                          7,135                         5,543

there were no allowances for long-term receivables from development contracts in either the financial year
under report or the previous one.


the table below shows non-current and current financial receivables that, on the balance sheet date, were
neither impaired nor overdue as well as overdue receivables that were not impaired:

                                                      of which:                               of which:
                                                        neither                 not impaired on the reporting date and
                                                  impaired nor                   passed due in the following periods
                                                passed due on
                                                 the reporting                between     between     between       between
                                     carrying             date    less than     30 and      61 and      91 and       181 and     more than
[ € ‘000 ]                            amount                        30 days    60 days     90 days    180 days      360 days      360 days

                                   31/12/2014


trade receivables                    544,936          492,248      30,059       7,350       2,546        1,894        6,927         4,349
long-term trade receivables
from development contracts             55,146          55,146            0          0           0              0            0           0


other financial receivables            17,626          15,734         826         175         355              55         153        328

                                31/12/2013


trade receivables                    502,663          451,272       27,685      9,519       1,261        3,706           3,176      6,598
long-term trade receivables
from development contracts             46,931          46,931            0          0           0              0            0           0


other financial receivables           18,658           17,557         204         144          76          104            153        420




the maximum risk of loan default corresponded to the carrying amount of the receivables. there were not,
with respect to the neither impaired receivables nor the overdue receivables, any signs on the reporting date
that the debtors will fail to make payment.
    receivables were covered by credit insurance in the amount of € 142,927 k (previous year: € 152,906 k).

170 |   www.leoni.com




                        12 | other assets

                        [ € ‘000 ]                                                                           2014                       2013
                        receivables for vat                                                                 50,482                 48,425
                        advanced payment                                                                    14,588                     10,784
                        prepaid expenses                                                                    13,470                      9,943
                        insurance technical reserves                                                         5,815                      4,428
                        receivables for other taxes                                                          2,529                      3,765
                        other assets                                                                         5,746                     4,885
                                                                                                           92,630                  82,230




                        13 | inventories

                        [ € ‘000 ]                                                                           2014                       2013
                        raw materials and manufacturing supplies                                           261,322                 227,563
                        work in progress                                                                    95,893                 88,537
                        finished products and merchandise                                                  206,964                 193,598
                                                                                                          564,179                 509,698



                        the amount of impairment of inventories, recognised as expense, is € 19,164 k (previous year: € 18,931 k). as in
                        the previous year, the fiscal 2014 write-downs on inventory were fully included in the cost of sales.
                            the inventory recognised as expense in the cost of sales (inventory used) in the financial year amounted to
                        € 2,436,320 k (previous year: € 2,354,687 k).
                            the carrying amount included inventories in the amount of € 23,059 k (previous year: € 26,466 k) that were
                        measured at net realisable value.



                        14 | assets held for sale

                        the assets held for sale in the amount of € 9,601 k (previous year: € 7,965 k) concern the wiring systems divi-
                        sion and include a building in bouznika, morocco (€ 8.0 million) as well as a former manufacturing building in
                        ostrzeszów, poland (€ 1.6 million).
                            negotiations to sell both properties are currently under way with potential buyers, with the sale of the
                        building in morocco having failed just before completion in the year under report.

                                                                                                                        | consolidated financial statements       |   171

                                                                                                                          notes
                                                                                                                          12 | other assets
                                                                                                                          13 | inventories
                                                                                                                          14 | assets held for sale
                                                                                                                          15 | property, plant and equipment




15 | property, plant and equipment
                                                             land,            technical    other equipment,    advance payments
                                                   leasehold rights    equipment, plant          factory and     and assets under
[ € ‘000 ]                                           and buildings       and machinery      other equipment          construction                         total
net book value on 1 january 2013                          239,226              324,563               64,206               49,251                       677,246


acquisition costs on 1 january 2013                        361,343              821,316              211,814              49,302                      1,443,775
currency differences                                        (4,377)              (9,547)             (1,609)                (829)                      (16,362)
additions                                                   13,374               51,539              20,651               70,620                       156,184
transfers assets held for sale                              12,589                    0                    0                       0                    12,589
disposals                                                    1,745               19,369              13,065                   188                       34,367
transfers                                                    2,669              38,951                11,561             (53,181)                             0
31 december 2013                                           358,675             882,890              229,352               65,724                      1,536,641


accumulated depreciation on 1 january 2013                  122,117             496,753              147,608                      51                   766,529
currency differences                                          (752)             (4,355)                (790)                   (7)                      (5,904)
additions                                                   12,504               67,815              21,032                        0                   101,351
transfers assets held for sale                               4,624                    0                    0                       0                     4,624
disposals                                                      184              18,508               11,801                        0                    30,493
31 december 2013                                           129,061             541,705              156,049                       44                   826,859


net book value on 31 december 2013                        229,614              341,185               73,303               65,680                       709,782


acquisition costs on 1 january 2014                        358,675             882,890              229,352               65,724                      1,536,641
currency differences                                         1,800               14,584                3,762                1,840                        21,986
additions                                                   32,649              66,969               21,221               80,639                       201,478
transfers assets held for sale                               2,774                    0                    0                       0                      2,774
disposals                                                    1,765               28,513               11,370                  625                       42,273
transfers                                                   17,902              30,087                10,185              (58,174)                            0
31 december 2014                                          406,487              966,017              253,150               89,404                      1,715,058


accumulated depreciation on 1 january 2014                 129,061             541,705              156,049                       44                   826,859
currency differences                                         1,252                7,695                1,826                      (2)                    10,771
additions                                                   13,025              70,222               24,340                        0                   107,587
transfers assets held for sale                                1,137                   0                    0                       0                      1,137
disposals                                                    1,351              26,854               10,890                        0                    39,095
31 december 2014                                           140,850             592,768              171,325                       42                   904,985


net book value on 31 december 2014                        265,637              373,249               81,825               89,362                       810,073

as in the previous year, no interest was capitalised in this financial year, nor was there any apprecia-
tion.

172 |   www.leoni.com




                                              16 | intangible assets

                                                                       trademarks,             customer
                                                                     similar rights,   relationships and
                  [ € ‘000 ]                                   software and others         order backlog   development costs   advance payments               total
                  net book value on 1 january 2013                         24,544               61,553                1,708              3,287            91,092


                  acquisition costs on 1 january 2013                       88,140             132,224               10,299              3,414            234,077
                  currency differences                                       (426)              (1,403)               (189)                  1             (2,017)
                  additions                                                  7,867                    0                 205              4,122             12,194
                  disposals                                                    852                    0                   0                 32                884
                  transfers                                                    972                    0                  22               (994)                 0
                  31 december 2013                                          95,701             130,821               10,337              6,511            243,370


                  accumulated amortisation on 1 january 2013                63,596              70,671                8,591                127            142,985
                  currency differences                                       (275)                (247)               (164)                  0              (686)
                  additions                                                  7,029               12,131                 481                  0             19,641
                  disposals                                                    826                    0                   0                  0                826
                  31 december 2013                                          69,524              82,555                8,908                127            161,114


                  net book value on 31 december 2013                       26,177               48,266                1,429              6,384            82,256


                  acquisition costs on 1 january 2014                       95,701             130,821               10,337              6,511            243,370
                  currency differences                                         884                3,716                 492                 12              5,104
                  additions                                                  5,143                    0               2,661              6,482             14,286
                  disposals                                                  1,541                    0                   0                  0              1,541
                  transfers                                                    762                    0                   7               (769)                 0
                  31 december 2014                                        100,949              134,537               13,497             12,236            261,219


                  accumulated amortisation on 1 january 2014                69,524              82,555                8,908                127            161,114
                  currency differences                                         591               1,254                  473                  0              2,318
                  additions                                                  7,191               8,902                  469                  0             16,562
                  disposals                                                  1,436                    0                   0                  0              1,436
                  31 december 2014                                          75,870              92,711                9,850                127            178,558


                  net book value on 31 december 2014                       25,079               41,826                3,647             12,109            82,661



                                              the item trademarks and similar rights, software and others included technology as well as non-patented
                                              production know-how acquired in the context of business combinations. the residual value of the technol-
                                              ogy and the production know-how amounted to € 6,743 k (previous year: € 7,779 k); the average residual
                                              useful life is 10.8 years. also included, as in the previous year, were brands acquired in the context of business
                                              combinations in the amount of € 2,128 k, which were classified as intangible assets with an indefinite useful
                                              life as there was no foreseeable limit to the use of these brands. the contractual and non-contractual business
                                              relationships obtained in the context of business acquisitions under the item customer relationships and order
                                              backlog have a residual value of € 41,826 k (previous year: € 48,266 k), the average residual useful life of which
                                              was 6.1 years.

                                                                                                                    | consolidated financial statements           |   173

                                                                                                                     notes
                                                                                                                      16 | intangible assets
                                                                                                                     17 | impairment testing of property, plant
                                                                                                                     		 and equipment as well as intangible
                                                                                                                     		 assets with a finite useful life




amortisation of intangible assets with a finite useful life was included in the cost of sales in the amount of
€ 10,242 k (previous year: € 14,167 k), in selling expenses in the amount of € 857 k (previous year: € 677 k), in
general and administrative expenses in the amount of € 4,975 k (previous year: € 4,283 k) as well as in research
and development costs in the amount of € 488 k (previous year: € 514 k).
  intangible assets with an indefinite useful life were tested for impairment as at 31 october. this involved
two brands in the wire & cable solutions division, specifically in one cash-generating unit in each of business
group communication & infrastructure and business group industry & healthcare. the impairment tests as a
matter of principle based on the recoverable amount of the respective cash-generating unit on the value in
use. in the case of the business group industry & healthcare brand, the fair value less cost to sell was drawn
upon and determined on the basis of the level three parameters pursuant to ifrs 13. in both cases, the under-
lying cash flow forecasts are based on the five-year business planning as approved by the management board.
the cash flows after the five-year period were, in the case of the brand in business group communication &
infrastructure, as in the previous year extrapolated by applying a zero growth rate. the pre-tax discount rate
applied was 11.85 percent (previous year: 13.48 percent). in the case of the brand in business group industry &
healthcare, a pre-tax discount rate of 10.38 percent (previous year: 12.17 percent) was applied for the five-year
detailed planning period and thereafter one of 8.88 percent (previous year: 10.67 percent), which corresponds
to a growth rate of 1.5 percent after the five-year planning period. neither impairment test resulted in any
need for write-down. based on the assumptions applied, the fair value less cost to sell of the business group
industry & healthcare brand exceeded the carrying amount of € 13.5 million by € 2.1 million. from a pre-tax
discount rate of 11.4 percent it would, all other parameters being equal, fall below the carrying amount.
  as in the previous year, no write-downs on intangible assets were recognised in the 2014 financial year.
  there was no appreciation either in this financial year or in the previous year.



17 | impairment testing of property, plant and equipment as
well as intangible assets with a finite useful life
intangible assets with finite useful life involved a carrying amount of € 80,533 k on 31 december 2014 (previ-
ous year: € 80,128 k). property, plant and equipment came to a carrying amount of € 810,073 k on 31 decem-
ber 2014 (previous year: € 709,782 k).
  in all cases, the cash flows projected in the current five-year planning were extrapolated for the impairment
testing.
  the property, plant and equipment as well as intangible assets with a finite useful life of one cash-genera-
ting unit in the wire & cable solutions division were tested for impairment. the test was carried out based on
the fair value less cost to sell and determined, pursuant to ifrs 13, based on the level three parameters. the
pre-tax discount rate applied was 10.58 percent and a discount rate of 9.08 percent was applied according
to the five-year detailed planning period, which corresponded to a growth rate of 1.5 percent. the test did
not find any need for write-down. from an increase in the pre-tax interest rate by more than 3.08 percentage
points the fair value less cost to sell would, all other parameters being equal, drop below the carrying amount.

174 |   www.leoni.com




                        in a second case in the wire & cable solutions division the value in use was drawn upon for the impairment
                        test. the discount rate was 10.83 percent; a discount rate of 9.33 percent was applied according to the five-
                        year detailed planning period, which corresponded to a growth rate of 1.5 percent. the test did no find any
                        need for write-down. from an increase in the pre-tax interest rate by more than 2.54 percentage points the
                        value in use would, all other parameters being equal, drop below the carrying amount.
                            in a cash-generating unit of the wiring systems division the impairment test was also based on the value in
                        use. the discount rate was 9.58 percent; a discount rate of 8.08 percent was applied according to the five-year
                        detailed planning period, which corresponded to a growth rate of 1.5 percent. the test did no find any need
                        for write-down. from an increase in the pre-tax interest rate by more than 2.23 percentage points the value in
                        use would, all other parameters being equal, drop below the carrying amount.



                        18 | goodwill

                        goodwill in the financial year is summarised as follows:

                        [ € ‘000 ]                                                                            2014                    2013
                        acquisition costs on 1 january                                                      156,586                 157,522
                        accumulated allowance                                                                 8,169                   8,169
                        carrying amount 1 january                                                           148,417                 149,353


                        subsequent purchase price adjustment                                                  (839)                         0
                        currency translation differences                                                        98                    (936)
                        carrying amount on 31 december                                                      147,676                 148,417


                        acquisition costs on 31 december                                                    155,845                156,586
                        accumulated allowance on 31 december                                                  8,169                  8,169
                        carrying amount on 31 december                                                      147,676                148,417




                        the goodwill shown on 31 december 2014 broke down to € 70,154 k (previous year: € 69,586 k) for the wire &
                        cable division and € 77,522 k (previous year: € 78,831 k) for the wiring systems division. the goodwill existing
                        in the wire & cable solutions division as at 31 december 2014 stems from the following key acquisitions:
                        € 18,312 k leoni schweiz ag (formerly studer ag), € 12,841 k leoni special cables gmbh, € 8,992 k leoni
                        silitherm s.r.l., € 7,530 k leoni kablesysteme gmbh and € 6,900 k leoni elocab gmbh. in the wiring systems
                        division the largest amount of goodwill, € 66,555 k, stems from the acquisition of valeo connective systems,
                        while € 6,712 k pertains to the purchase of daekyeung t&g co. ltd.
                            in addition to the obligatory impairment tests of all goodwill that must be carried out at lease once a year,
                        the company carries out additional impairment tests during the financial year where there are indications of
                        impairment. the obligatory impairment test of all goodwill that must be carried out at least once a year was
                        executed as at 31 october.

                                                                                                                      | consolidated financial statements   |   175

                                                                                                                       notes
                                                                                                                        18 | goodwill




for the purpose of the impairment test, all goodwill was allocated to the cash-generating units or groups of
cash-generating units that benefit from the synergies of the business combination. the principal goodwill
allocations were as follows:
  in the wiring systems division, the largest item of goodwill in the amount of € 66.6 million (previous year:
€ 67.4 million) was allocated at segment level. in the wire & cable solutions division, goodwill totalling
€ 37.1 million (previous year: € 36.9 million) was allocated to business group industry & healthcare. goodwill
totalling € 28.9 million (previous year: € 28.5 million) and of € 4.2 million as in the previous year was allocated
to business group communication & infrastructure and to business group automotive cables, respectively.
  in all the goodwill impairment tests, determination of the recoverable amount was based on the value in
use. the underlying cash flow forecasts are in each case based on the five-year business planning as approved
by the management board. as in the previous year, cash flows after the five-year period were on principle
extrapolated by applying a zero growth rate. the pre-tax discount rates applied were as follows: for the wiring
systems division 11.63 percent (previous year: 13.38 percent), for business group automotive cables 13.30
percent (previous year: 14.72 percent), for business group industry & healthcare 11.00 percent (previous year:
12.60 percent) and for business group communication & infrastructure 10.55 percent (previous year: 12.08
percent).
  the test for impairment of goodwill found no need for write-down.
  the group’s management holds the basic view that, by prudent judgement, any fundamentally possible
change to basic assumptions for determining the value in use of the cash-generating units or groups of
cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated would not lead to the carrying amounts of the
cash-generating units exceeding their recoverable amount. in the wiring systems division there is one excep-
tion involving a cash-generating unit to which a relatively small amount of goodwill of € 6.7 million is allocat-
ed. the discount rate was 10.63 percent; a discount rate of 9.13 percent was applied according to the five-year
detailed planning period, which corresponded to a growth rate of 1.5 percent. in the case of this cash-gen-
erating unit, the carrying amount could exceed the value in use as a result of an increase in the discount rate
or if projections of earnings were to worsen. based on the assumptions made, the value in use exceeded the
carrying amount of € 104.5 million by € 15.0 million. from an increase in the discount rate by 1.59 percentage
points the value in use would, all other parameters being equal, be below the carrying amount.
  in the wire & cable solutions division there is another exception in business group communication &
infrastructure. it includes a brand for which the impairment test is described separately in note 16. an item
of goodwill in the amount of € 28.9 million is furthermore allocated to the business group, which was also
tested. the discount rate was 10.16 percent; a discount rate of 8.66 percent was applied according to the five-
year detailed planning period, which corresponded to a growth rate of 1.5 percent. based on the assumptions
made, the value in use exceeded the carrying amount of € 235.7 million by € 74.4 million. from an increase in
the discount rate by 2.44 percentage points the value in use would, all other parameters being equal, match
the carrying amount.

176 |   www.leoni.com




                        19 | other non-current financial assets

                        the other non-current financial assets amounting to € 1,065 k as in the previous year comprised investments
                        classified as available-for-sale securities. they were valued at cost because there was no quoted price in an
                        active market and their fair value could not be reliably measured.
                          the item also included primarily loans to third parties and staff in the amount of € 1,035 k (previous year:
                        € 1,355 k) and collateral, pertaining mostly to rental deposits for office and warehouse buildings as well as
                        staff residential units in korea, in the amount of € 3,566 k (previous year: € 2,375 k).



                        20 | financial debts

                        the financial liabilities comprised liabilities to banks, notes payable and other loan obligations. they totalled
                        € 548,178 k on 31 december 2014 (previous year: € 454,964 k). current financial liabilities and the short-term
                        proportion of long-term loans amounted to € 99,776 k on the reporting date, whereas the item showed an
                        amount of € 41,279 k on 31 december 2013. the change is due primarily to reclassification from non-current
                        financial liabilities and to having taken out further short-term loans.
                          non-current financial liabilities rose from € 413,685 k on 31 december 2013 to € 448,402 k in the period un-
                        der report. this is attributable to the issue of new borrower’s note loans as well as to having taken out foreign
                        currency loans.


                        the overview below shows the existing borrower’s note loans:
                              nominal value      carrying amount      payment year         repayment               interest          interest rate
                                                      31/12/2014                                                              hedging instrument
                                    [ € ‘000 ]           [ € ‘000 ]

                                     26,500               27,548             2008         matures 2015        fixed income                  none
                                     63,000               63,326              2012        matures 2017        fixed income                  none
                                     73,000               73,233              2012        matures 2017        variable rate                 none
                                     25,000               25,146              2012        matures 2018        fixed income                  none
                                     12,000               12,039              2012        matures 2018        variable rate                 none
                                     48,500               48,821              2012        matures 2019        fixed income                  none
                                     19,500               19,571              2012        matures 2019        variable rate                 none
                                      9,000                9,075              2012        matures 2022        fixed income                  none
                                     25,000               26,919              2013        matures 2020        fixed income        fair value hedge
                                     25,000               25,031              2014        matures 2020        variable rate                 none
                                     20,000               20,052              2014        matures 2021        variable rate                 none


                        detail of the financial liabilities and hedging instruments is to be found in note 27.

                                                                                                                          | consolidated financial statements         |   177

                                                                                                                           notes
                                                                                                                            19 | other non-current financial assets
                                                                                                                            20 | financial debts
                                                                                                                           21 | trade payables
                                                                                                                           		 and other financial liabilities
                                                                                                                            22 | other current liabilities




21 | trade payables and other financial liabilities

[ € ‘000 ]                                                                            2014                        2013
trade liabilities                                                                   704,881                  675,099
liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures                                 840                         844
other liabilities                                                                    38,498                      22,796
                                                                                    744,219                 698,739


other liabilities included liabilities amounting to € 21,262 k (previous year: € 18,025 k) from the receipt of
payment on receivables that were sold within factoring agreements.



22 | other current liabilities

[ € ‘000 ]                                                                            2014                        2013
liabilities to employees                                                             88,365                      76,160
tax liabilities                                                                      27,998                      29,667
liabilities connected with social security                                           16,112                      15,470
advance payments received                                                             8,234                      15,243
government grants received                                                            4,557                       5,251
other accruals                                                                        5,719                       5,195
                                                                                    150,985                 146,986



the government grants received involved subsidies for building a second plant in serbia for the wiring
systems division. details are to be found under note 7.

178 |   www.leoni.com




                                             23 | provisions

                                             the changes in provisions are summarised as follows:
                                                                                                                                current non-current      current non-current
                                                                                        allocation    currency               provisions provisions    provisions provisions
                  [ € ‘000 ]           01/01/2014      usage dissolution   allocation   of interest differences 31/12/2014        2014        2014         2013        2013

                  personnel-related-
                  provisions              21,487        3,111        513       3,166          989         (94)      21,924       2,778       19,146      3,224       18,263
                  provisions for
                  product warranties       17,504      2,601       3,960       4,922            2         390      16,257       16,257           0      17,504           0
                  other provisions
                  for purchasing and
                  distribution             4,290       2,175        160        2,053            0         223       4,231        3,839         392       3,909         381
                  restructuring
                  provisions               12,124      7,525       1,562         388           55           0       3,480        2,797         683       9,830        2,294

                  other provisions          4,273        401        543        3,134            0         (65)      6,398        2,658        3,740      2,633        1,640
                  total                   59,678      15,813       6,738      13,663        1,046         454      52,290       28,329      23,961      37,100      22,578



                                             the personnel-related provisions involved mainly long-term provision for partial retirement agreements in
                                             germany in the amount of € 6,399 k (previous year: € 7,037 k) and provision for anniversary bonuses in the
                                             amount of € 10,319 k (previous year: € 9,243 k). the provision for anniversary bonuses is paid out according to
                                             the age structure of the workforce upon the employees’ respective anniversaries of service. based on the cur-
                                             rent workforce, payments will mostly become due in the next 20 years. the payments relating to provisions
                                             for partial retirement will probably be spread over the next six years.
                                                the product warranties were determined on the basis of past experience, with goodwill concessions also
                                             taken into account. provisions were added in the amount of € 4,922 k (previous year: € 4,809 k) for claims
                                             under warranty and/or for compensation in fiscal 2014. these provisions for claims under warranty and/or for
                                             compensation were offset by claims against the insurer in the amount of € 5,802 k (previous year: € 4,428 k).
                                                there were also provisions for purchasing and distribution to cover onerous contracts.
                                                the restructuring provisions in the amount of € 3,480 k (previous year: € 12,124 k) pertained to the wire &
                                             cable solutions division in the amount of € 751 k (previous year: € 6,576 k) and to the wiring systems division
                                             in the amount of € 2,729 k (previous year: € 5,548 k). the non-current proportion of the restructuring provi-
                                             sions involved mostly severance costs in italy in the wiring systems division, payment of which stretches into
                                             the year 2016. use of restructuring provisions involved the amounts set aside in previous years for severance
                                             costs pertaining to the wire & cable solutions division in germany as well as to the wiring systems division in
                                             spain and italy. the additions in the amount of € 388 k pertained mostly to the wiring systems division.
                                                the other provisions amounting to € 6,398 k (previous year: € 4,273 k) included an addition of € 2,100 k for
                                             soil rehabilitation at the wire & cable solutions division’s facility in roth.

                                                                                                                      | consolidated financial statements   |   179

                                                                                                                       notes
                                                                                                                        23 | provisions
                                                                                                                        24 | pension provisions




24 | pension provisions

at leoni there are in various countries pension commitments that provide for benefits in the event of disable-
ment, retirement or death. these principal commitments are limited to our companies in the united kingdom,
germany and switzerland, and are set up as defined benefit plans. the obligations and the plan assets of the
pension plans in these three countries accounted for 97.1 percent and 99.4 percent, respectively, of the group
total. the pension plans in the united kingdom and switzerland are managed by legally independent entities,
namely the leoni uk pension scheme and “vorsorgestiftung leoni schweiz” (leoni switzerland pension
trust).


germany
in germany, leoni grants defined benefits to most employees for the deferral of compensation. amounts of
deferred compensation earn interest at a rate of about 6 percent per year. these benefits are covered by cap-
ital insurance. the reinsurance policies are qualifying insurance policies and are therefore recognised as plan
assets. the terms of the insurance policies are in line with the dates when the benefits become due.
  the pension plan of leonische drahtwerke ag, which in the past covered all employees, was closed to
people joining the company after 31 december 1981, was replaced by the pension plan of leoni ag in 2013.
furthermore, the pension plan’s assets, from which payments of pension benefits that had already started
at the time of the closure were made, were transferred to leoni ag. this transfer of the pension plan did not
entail any change to benefits for either people now in retirement or for future beneficiaries. the amount of
pension benefit payments is based on years of service and the salary of the last year of employment.
  pension obligations of acquired german companies are generally based on eligible compensation levels
and/or ranking within the company hierarchy and years of service, or on a fixed amount per year of service. all
defined pension plans of acquired companies are closed to new staff.
  the plans in germany are exposed to risks relating primarily to interest rates, longevity and partly also
salary increases.


united kingdom
in the united kingdom there is a defined benefit plan that was set up in the year 2000 and replaced the
pension plan in place until then. until it was closed to new staff joining in 2008, all employees were able to
participate in this plan. the pension plan is administered by a trust whose board comprises both employer
and employee representatives. there are also outside experts consulting on asset management and actu-
arial matters. the trust determines the contributions to be paid in by leoni and decides on the additional
contributions to be paid by leoni in the event of any plan deficit. the current deficit at the end of the financial
year was € 54,358 k, equating to 29.5 percent of the defined benefit obligation. negotiations between leoni
and the trust are conducted every three years to determine the amounts to be paid in to clear any deficit and
the period over which to do so. the amount of committed benefits is based upon the salary of the last year of
employment as well as years of service and contributions of the participants to the fund. pension adjustments
are linked to an inflation index, reflecting increases in the cost of living.
  leoni is exposed due to these plans in the united kingdom to risks involving primarily interest rates, invest-
ment, inflation and longevity as well as salary increases.

180 |   www.leoni.com




                        switzerland
                        in switzerland there is, alongside the state pension, a statutory obligation to provide employees with pension
                        insurance, which pays benefits in the event of retirement, disablement and death. this involves a defined
                        benefit plan that, at leoni, is managed by the legally independent ‘vorsorgestiftung leoni schweiz’ (leoni
                        switzerland pension trust). the trust’s management is incumbent upon the board of trustees, which com-
                        prises an equal number of employer and employee representatives. the risks relating to longevity, interest
                        rates and investment are borne exclusively by the trust. the savings contributions to the trust are paid in
                        equal amounts by the employer and employees. a variety of measures can be applied in the event of any plan
                        deficit. alongside the options of reducing the pension payments or increasing the savings contributions, there
                        is a statutory obligation on companies to pay recapitalisation contributions.
                          the size of benefit payments is, in the event of disability or death, geared to the amount of income insured,
                        or, in the case of retirement, depends on the credit balances in nominal savings accounts (old-age credit) at
                        the time of retirement.


                        other countries
                        in france there are defined benefit plans in accordance with the country’s legal requirements and other agree-
                        ments. the collective agreement of the french metal-working trade union determines the size of the benefit.
                        it is linked to monthly wages and salaries and depends on years of service.
                          at the italian subsidiaries there are pension plans in accordance with the local legal requirements. these
                        must be qualified as defined benefit plans pursuant to ias 19 and were presented accordingly.
                          furthermore, there are at some foreign subsidiaries pension-like defined benefit schemes, above all for
                        transition payments after entering retirement, which were presented as defined benefit plans pursuant to
                        ias 19 and which were of only minor significance to the group.

                                                                                                                        | consolidated financial statements   |   181

                                                                                                                         notes
                                                                                                                          24 | pension provisions




the trend in net pension obligations, which is comprised of the change in the defined benefit obligation, the
change in the fair value of plan assets and the capping of plan assets to be applied to the asset ceiling, is as
follows:


change in defined benefit obligations 2014                             [ € ‘000 ]        uk    germany    switzerland    other              total
defined benefit obligations at the beginning of the fiscal year                     155,395      80,170        70,203    9,431           315,199
current service cost                                                                  1,484       2,582         1,557      936             6,559
interest cost                                                                         7,142       2,922         1,419      333            11,816
actuarial (gains) / losses                                                           13,669      22,574        10,594    1,008            47,845
past service cost                                                                         0          0             0      (103)             (103)
contributions by plan participants                                                       35       2,080         1,995         0            4,110
currency differences                                                                 10,735          0          1,531      107            12,373
transfers under swiss law                                                                 0          0          1,623         0            1,623
benefits paid                                                                        (4,282)    (2,204)       (5,094)     (632)          (12,212)
defined benefit obligations at the end of the fiscal year                           184,178    108,124        83,828    11,080          387,210


change in plan assets 2014                                             [ € ‘000 ]        uk    germany    switzerland    other              total
fair value of plan assets at the beginning of fiscal year                           109,970      28,781        62,416    1,010           202,177
interest received                                                                     5,137       1,053         1,262        46            7,498
return on plan assets (excl. interest income based on discount rate)                  6,343       (126)         2,312      (22)            8,507
currency differences                                                                  7,581          0          1,299        98            8,978
contributions by the employer                                                         5,693        365          1,936      665             8,659
contributions by plan participants                                                       35       2,080         1,995         0            4,110
administrative costs, fees and taxes                                                  (626)          0             0          0             (626)
transfers under swiss law                                                                 0          0          1,622         0            1,622
benefits paid                                                                        (4,313)    (1,030)       (5,093)     (462)          (10,898)
plan assets at the end of the fiscal year                                           129,820     31,123        67,749     1,335          230,027

net liability due to defined benefit plans                                           54,358     77,001        16,079     9,745          157,183

182 |   www.leoni.com




                  change in defined benefit obligations 2013                             [ € ‘000 ]        uk    germany     switzerland      other          total
                  defined benefit obligations at the beginning of the fiscal year                     143,080      77,212         70,625     10,292       301,209
                  current service cost                                                                    898       2,700          1,328        979          5,905
                  interest cost                                                                         6,124       2,725          1,216        310        10,375
                  actuarial (gains) / losses                                                           11,341      (2,203)       (1,958)       (557)         6,623
                  past service cost                                                                         0           0        (1,164)          0       (1,164)
                  contributions by plan participants                                                      408       1,992          1,931          0          4,331
                  currency differences                                                                 (2,784)          0        (1,122)        (36)      (3,942)
                  disposals of parts of businesses or subsidiaries                                          0           0             0        (127)         (127)
                  transfers under swiss law                                                                 0           0          3,994          0          3,994
                  benefits paid                                                                        (3,624)     (2,304)       (4,647)     (1,430)     (12,005)
                  defined benefit obligations at the end of the fiscal year                           155,443      80,122        70,203       9,431      315,199


                  change in plan assets 2013                                             [ € ‘000 ]        uk    germany     switzerland      other          total
                  fair value of plan assets at the beginning of fiscal year                           102,056      26,586         58,165        570       187,377
                  interest income                                                                       4,382         950          1,001         27          6,360
                  return on plan assets (excl. interest income based on discount rate)                  6,880           6          1,023         78          7,987
                  currency differences                                                                 (2,001)          0          (923)        (17)      (2,941)
                  contributions by the employer                                                         2,486         326          1,872      1,444          6,128
                  contributions by plan participants                                                      408       1,992          1,931          0          4,331
                  administrative costs, fees and taxes                                                  (617)           0             0           0          (617)
                  transfers under swiss law                                                                 0           0          3,994          0          3,994
                  benefits paid                                                                        (3,624)     (1,079)       (4,647)     (1,092)     (10,442)
                  plan assets at the end of the fiscal year                                           109,970      28,781        62,416       1,010      202,177

                  effect of the asset ceiling                                                               0       (239)             0           0          (239)

                  net liability due to defined benefit plans                                           45,473      51,580         7,787       8,421      113,261



                                                the pension obligations are presented on the balance sheet as a net liability in the amount of € 157,183 k
                                                (previous year: € 113,261 k).
                                                    the transfers under swiss law concern the transfer of the obligation and of the related proportion of plan
                                                assets, known as the vested benefit credit, to the new employer or a suitable financial institution in accord-
                                                ance with the country’s legal requirements.
                                                    the defined benefit obligation at the end of the financial year broke down into € 334,725 k (previous year:
                                                € 272,350 k) in funded obligations and € 52,485 k (previous year: € 42,849 k) in unfunded obligations.

                                                                                                                                     | consolidated financial statements   |   183

                                                                                                                                       notes
                                                                                                                                       24 | pension provisions




a breakdown of the obligations into the categories of existing and past employees as well as non-vested and
vested benefits is provided in the overview below:

2014                                                                   [ € ‘000 ]       uk     germany        switzerland            other               total
current employees with non-vested benefits                                           51,510      62,179            61,074             4,042           178,805
current employees with vested benefits                                                   0               11            0              6,940             6,951
former employees with non-vested benefits                                            65,861      14,486                0                  0            80,347
pensioners                                                                           66,807      31,448            22,754               98            121,107
defined benefit obligations at the end of the fiscal year                           184,178     108,124           83,828             11,080          387,210


2013                                                                   [ € ‘000 ]       uk     germany        switzerland            other               total
current employees with non-vested benefits                                           42,195      43,714            51,660             3,001           140,570
current employees with vested benefits                                                   0                0            0              6,332             6,332
former employees with non-vested benefits                                            53,960      11,517                0                  0            65,477
pensioners                                                                           59,288      24,891            18,543               98            102,820
defined benefit obligations at the end of the fiscal year                           155,443      80,122           70,203              9,431          315,199


the income generated from plan assets comprises the interest income of € 7,498 k (previous year: € 6,360 k)
included in consolidated net income and the income from plan assets of € 8,507 k (previous year: € 7,987 k)
included in other comprehensive income.


the actuarial gains or losses on revaluation were recognised in accumulated other comprehensive income.
the trend in actuarial losses is presented in the overview below:

[ € ‘000 ]                                                                                      2014                         2013
actuarial losses at the beginning of the financial year                                        78,709                       81,114
actuarial (gains) / losses
    – due to the change in demographic projections                                                (11)                       2,980
    – due to the change in financial estimates                                                 49,931                        4,388
    – due to adjustments based on experience                                                   (2,076)                       (745)
return on plan assets (excl. interest income based on discount rate)                           (8,507)                  (7,987)
change in capping of plan assets at the asset ceiling                                           (239)                         182
currency differences                                                                                0                   (1,223)
actuarial losses at the end of the fiscal year                                                117,807                   78,709



the assumptions for interest rates, rates of compensation increase and the expected return on plan assets on
which the calculation for defined benefit obligations is based were established for each country as a function
of their respective economic conditions. the discount rate was determined on the basis of top-tier, fixed-in-
come corporate bonds. this involved referencing bonds that on the reporting date had maturities in line with
the pension obligations and are quoted in the corresponding currency. aa-rated bonds were used as the basis
for data to determine the discount rates.

184 |   www.leoni.com




                                                the overview below shows the actuarial assumptions made to calculate the defined benefit obligation:

                                                                                        2014                                                        2013
                                                                     uk       germany      switzerland         total          uk        germany        switzerland   total
                  discount rate                                    3.60 %      2.00 %          1.00 %          2.54 %        4.50 %      3.70 %            2.00 %    3.70 %
                  rate of wage and salary increase                 2.99 %      2.50 %          1.00 %          2.39 %        3.40 %      2.50 %            1.00 %    2.56 %
                  rate of compensation increase                    2.89 %      2.00 %          0.00 %          1.94 %        3.30 %      2.00 %            0.00 %    2.14 %


                                                the assumptions made for calculating net periodic pension cost are shown in the table below.
                                                                                        2014                                                        2013
                                                                     uk       germany      switzerland         total          uk        germany        switzerland   total
                  discount rate                                    4.50 %      3.70 %          2.00 %          3.70 %        4.50 %      3.60 %            1.75 %    3.58 %
                  rate of wage and salary increase                 3.40 %      2.50 %          1.00 %          2.56 %        3.00 %      2.50 %            1.00 %    2.39 %
                  rate of compensation increase                    3.30 %      2.00 %          0.00 %          2.14 %        2.90 %      2.00 %            0.00 %    1.89 %



                                                the assumed mortality is based on published statistics and historical data in the respective countries. the
                                                valuation of the retirement benefit obligations in the united kingdom was based on the s1na mortality table.
                                                in 2013, this mortality table was adjusted with the cmi 2011 core model index. this took account of the current
                                                trend in the life expectancy projection. the previous year’s effect is contained in the revaluation of net liability
                                                under the item ‘change in demographic assumptions’. in germany the mortality tables used were the ‘heu-
                                                beck-richttafeln 2005 g’, while in switzerland it was the ‘bvg 2010 generationentafel’.
                                                   the discount rate is the key determinant for the amount of net pension obligations. an increase or a de-
                                                crease by 1 percentage point has the following impact on the defined benefit obligations:

                                                                                                                                         2014
                                                                                                  [ € ‘000 ]       uk       germany    switzerland         other     total
                  defined benefit obligations at the end of the fiscal year                                      184,178     108,124      83,828           11,080    387,210

                  discount rate + 1 percentage point                                              change:        (30,176)   (14,541)     (10,479)          (1,161)   (56,357)
                                                                              defined benefit obligations:       154,002      93,583      73,349            9,919    330,853

                  discount rate – 1 percentage point                                              change:         39,716      18,373      13,356            1,359     72,804
                                                                              defined benefit obligations:       223,894     126,497      97,184           12,439    460,014



                                                                                                                                         2013
                                                                                                  [ € ‘000 ]       uk       germany    switzerland         other     total
                  defined benefit obligations at the end of the fiscal year                                      155,443      80,122      70,203            9,431    315,199

                  discount rate + 1 percentage point                                              change:        (24,967)    (9,656)      (5,932)            (938)   (41,493)
                                                                              defined benefit obligations:       130,476      70,466      64,271            8,493    273,706

                  discount rate – 1 percentage point                                              change:         32,649      11,994       7,329            1,100     53,072
                                                                              defined benefit obligations:       188,092      92,116      77,532           10,531    368,271

                                                                                                                                         | consolidated financial statements   |   185

                                                                                                                                           notes
                                                                                                                                           24 | pension provisions




the assumptions concerning the trends in salaries, pensions and mortality with respect to the pension plan in
the group have the effect on the defined benefit obligations set out below. it should be noted that a drop in
the pension level is ruled out by law in switzerland.

                                                                                  2014                                    2013
[ € ‘000 ]                                                                  uk    germany       switzerland         uk    germany       switzerland
defined benefit obligations at the end of the fiscal year              184,178     108,124           83,828    155,443      80,122           70,203


salary trend + 0.5 percentage point         change (absolute):           2,558            45           251        2,401          115            211
                                             change (relative):         1.39 %      0.04 %           0.30 %      1.54 %     0.14 %           0.30 %


salary trend – 0.5 percentage point         change (absolute):          (2,558)          (42)         (251)     (2,401)      (112)            (211)
                                             change (relative):        (1.39) %    (0.04) %        (0.30) %    (1.54) %    (0.14) %        (0.30) %


rate of compensation increase + 0.5 percentage point
                                         change (absolute):              8,954       4,031            3,521       7,202      2,766            2,738
                                             change (relative):         4.86 %      3.73 %           4.20 %      4.63 %     3.45 %           3.90 %


rate of compensation increase – 0.5 percentage point 		
                                         change (absolute):             (8,954)     (3,652)             n/a     (7,202)     (2,527)                n/a
                                             change (relative):        (4.86) %    (3.38) %             n/a    (4.63) %    (3.15) %                n/a


life expectancy + 1 year                    change (absolute):           5,116       2,768            1,593       3,601      2,035              842
                                             change (relative):         2.78 %      2.56 %           1.90 %      2.32 %     2.54 %           1.20 %




the mortality trend is taken into account in the three major pension plans through the use of generation
tables. calculation of the defined benefit obligations with a one-year rise in life expectancy raises the defined
benefit obligations of the plans as follows: in the united kingdom by 2.78 percent (previous year: 2.32 per-
cent), in germany by 2.56 percent (previous year: 2.54 percent) and in switzerland by 1.90 percent (previous
year: 1.20 percent).
    the calculation of sensitivities was, as part of an observation performed on a ceteris paribus basis, based on
changing an assumption, whereas all other assumptions remain unchanged, whereby dependencies between
the assumptions are ruled out. the method for calculating sensitivities is identical to that for calculating the
net pension obligation.
    the defined benefit plan expense recognised in comprehensive income comprised the amounts contained
in consolidated net income and in other comprehensive income:

[ € ‘000 ]                                                                                                     2014              2013
current service cost                                                                                           6,559          5,905
net interest cost                                                                                              4,318          4,015
past service cost                                                                                              (103)        (1,164)
administrative costs and taxes related to plan management                                                        626              617
defined benefit plan expense recognised in consolidated net income                                            11,400         9,373

actuarial (gains) / losses                                                                                    47,844          6,623
return on plan assets (excl. interest income based on discount rate)                                          (8,507)       (7,987)
change in capping of plan assets at the asset ceiling                                                          (239)              182
currency differences (group)                                                                                       0        (1,223)
income / expense relating to defined benefit plans recognised in other comprehensive income                   39,098        (2,405)

defined benefit plan expense recognised in comprehensive income                                               50,498         6,968

186 |   www.leoni.com




                        the net interest expense that arose from applying the discount rate to the balance of defined benefit obliga-
                        tion less plan assets (net pension obligation) was presented under finance costs.
                            in the previous year, the past service cost resulted from a plan change involving pension commitments in
                        switzerland. here the conversion rate, which is used as the basis for the later amount of pensions to be paid
                        out, was slightly reduced.
                            the expense recognised in consolidated net income was contained in the following items of the income
                        statement:

                        [ € ‘000 ]                                                                                       2014                  2013
                        cost of sales                                                                                    2,994                 1,824
                        general and administration expenses                                                              1,721                 1,997
                        selling expenses                                                                                  960                    437
                        research and development expenses                                                                1,407                 1,100
                        finance costs                                                                                    4,318                 4,015
                        defined benefit plan expense recognised in consolidated net income                              11,400                 9,373



                        asset-liability matching strategies
                        at leoni the key benefit commitments are, in accordance with the company’s articles of association,
                        furnished with a benefit reserve that is suited in its nature to funding the benefit payments when they are
                        due and in the required amount. in the case of the german pension plan this is done exclusively by means
                        of qualifying life insurance policies that are synchronised in their terms and amounts with the expected
                        benefit payments. in the case of the pension plans in the united kingdom and switzerland, the boards of the
                        independent trusts ensure adherence to the investment strategies. these strategies are aimed at minimising
                        potential investment risk, having sufficient funds available at short notice to serve the benefit payments due
                        and at generating a return that is in line with the market over the long term. assessments of the investment
                        portfolio are regularly conducted together with independent, outside specialists in the fields of asset invest-
                        ment and actuarial policies to review the attainment of strategic targets and for the boards on that basis to
                        take investment decisions.


                        the breakdown of plan assets in the various classes is presented in the table below:


                                                                                                      2014                          2013
                                                                                                   [ € ‘000 ]    [%]             [ € ‘000 ]     [%]

                        equity instruments                                                         72,928        31.7            68,461        33.9
                        debt instruments                                                           71,265        31.0            53,608        26.5
                        property                                                                   27,728        12.1            20,544        10.2
                               of which: prices not quoted on an active market                      19,598        8.5             12,430        6.2
                        securities funds                                                           12,982         5.6            15,392         7.6
                        qualifying insurance policies                                              31,154        13.5            28,811        14.1
                        other plan assets                                                            8,049        3.5              8,156        4.0
                               of which: prices not quoted on an active market                       6,491        2.8              6,596        3.3
                        cash and cash equivalents                                                    5,921        2.6              7,205        3.6
                        total plan assets                                                         230,027       100.0        202,177          100.0

                                                                                                                           | consolidated financial statements   |   187

                                                                                                                            notes
                                                                                                                             24 | pension provisions




the plan assets from qualifying insurance policies stemmed almost exclusively from the reinsurance policies
in germany. apart from the class comprising cash and cash equivalents, the assets of all other classes stated
involved the plan assets of the pension plans in the united kingdom and switzerland, and broke down as
follows:

2014                                                                             uk              switzerland
                                                                            [ € ‘000 ]    [%]        [ € ‘000 ]     [%]

equity instruments                                                          59,417        45.8        13,511        19.9
debt instruments                                                            31,457        24.2        39,808        58.8
property                                                                    17,875        13.8         9,853        14.5
       of which: prices not quoted on an active market                       17,875       13.8         1,723         2.5
securities funds                                                            12,982        10.0               0       0.0
other plan assets                                                             6,491        5.0         1,558         2.3
       of which: prices not quoted on an active market                        6,491        5.0               0       0.0
cash and cash equivalents                                                     1,598        1.2         3,019         4.5
total plan assets                                                          129,820       100.0       67,749        100.0




2013                                                                             uk              switzerland
                                                                            [ € ‘000 ]    [%]        [ € ‘000 ]     [%]

equity instruments                                                          51,402        46.7        17,059        27.3
debt instruments                                                            23,387        21.3        30,221        48.4
property                                                                    10,694         9.7         9,850        15.8
       of which: prices not quoted on an active market                       10,694        9.7         1,736         2.8
securities funds                                                            15,392        14.0               0       0.0
other plan assets                                                             6,596        6.0         1,560         2.5
       of which: prices not quoted on an active market                        6,596        6.0               0       0.0
cash and cash equivalents                                                     2,499        2.3         3,726         6.0
total plan assets                                                          109,970       100.0       62,416       100.00



the equity instruments in the united kingdom and switzerland comprised investments in equity funds and
direct investments. in each case the funds included equities both based in the country and foreign ones. the
debt instruments held in the united kingdom and switzerland involved both national and foreign corporate
and government bonds. investment in property in the united kingdom and switzerland was transacted
exclusively by way of open-ended property funds. the securities funds in the united kingdom involved diver-
sified growth funds. the other plan assets in the united kingdom included investments in funds in which the
portfolios comprised foreign utility and transport infrastructure organisations.
   the breakdown of plan assets by the stated investment classes corresponds to the targeted investment
classes set out in the statutes of the pension plans. for the plan in the united kingdom, the weighting is cur-
rently being shifted from debt instruments towards property and security investments.
   leoni did not make any own use of plan assets.
   the contributions to plan assets amounted to € 8,659 k and were projected at € 8,399 k for the subsequent
financial year.

188 |   www.leoni.com




                        a breakdown of pension payments (excluding compensatory effects of payouts from the plans assets) was
                        presented as follows:

                        pension payments made                             [ € ‘000 ]

                        2013                                              12,005
                        2014                                              12,362

                        expected pension payments
                        2015                                              12,054
                        2016                                              12,809
                        2017                                              13,034
                        2018                                              13,311
                        2019                                              14,436
                        2020 to 2024                                      80,951
                        expected pension payments until 2024             146,595



                        the average, weighted macaulay duration of benefit obligations was 18 years in the united kingdom, 15 years
                        in germany and 14 years in switzerland.
                          some non-german companies provide defined contribution plans. in germany and other countries state
                        plans were also recognised under defined contribution plans. the total cost of such contributions amounted
                        to € 64,524 k in the financial year (previous year: € 61,237 k).



                        25 | equity

                        share capital
                        the share capital in the amount of € 32,669 k (previous year: € 32,669 k), which corresponded to the share
                        capital of leoni ag, is divided into 32,669,000 (previous year: 32,669,000) no-par-value shares.


                        additional paid-in capital
                        as in the previous year, the additional paid-in capital amounted to € 290,887 k.


                        statutory reserve
                        as in the previous year, the retained earnings included the statutory reserve of leoni ag in the amount of
                        € 1,092 k, which is not available for distribution.


                        authorised capital
                        the management board is authorised, pursuant to the articles of association following the annual general
                        meeting’s resolution of 16 may 2012, to increase the share capital in the period up to 15 may 2017 and with
                        the approval of the supervisory board once or in partial amounts by up to € 16,334.5 k by issuing new shares
                        on a cash or non-cash basis. shareholders must be granted a right to subscribe. however, the annual general
                        meeting entitled the management board, with the approval of the supervisory board, to rule out sharehold-
                        ers’ subscription rights in cases specified in the articles of association.

                                                                                                                    | consolidated financial statements   |   189

                                                                                                                     notes
                                                                                                                      25 | equity
                                                                                                                     26 | contingencies and
                                                                                                                     		 other obligations




contingent capital
shareholders at the annual general meeting on 6 may 2010 authorised the management board to issue
convertible bonds and/or warrant-linked bonds until 5 may 2015. this involved a contingent increase in share
capital by up to € 14,850 k. the contingent capital increase is only to be performed to the extent that conver-
sion and/or option rights have been utilised or that the holders and/or creditors obliged to convert have met
their conversion obligation and provided that no cash settlement has been granted or company shares or
new shares from the utilisation of approved capital are utilised for the exercise of rights.


dividend payment
a dividend for the 2013 financial year of € 32,669 k was paid out in fiscal 2014. this corresponded to a dividend
of € 1.00 per share entitled to dividend.


dividend proposal
the management board will propose to shareholders at the annual general meeting to pay out from the fiscal
2014 distributable profit of leoni ag, amounting to € 40,421 k as determined under the german commercial
code (hgb) and the german public companies act (aktg), a dividend of € 39,203 k and to carry the remainder
of € 1,218 k forward. this corresponds to a dividend of € 1.20 per share entitled to dividend.



26 | contingencies and other obligations

lease obligations
the group leases property, plant and equipment that did not qualify as finance leases under ifrs, and are
therefore classified as operating leases. leasing expenses amounted to € 25,650 k in the financial year (pre-
vious year: € 26,124 k). the future (undiscounted) minimum rental payments on non-cancellable operating
leases are:

fiscal years                                     [ € ‘000 ]

2015                                              21,186
2016                                              15,943
2017                                              11,804
2018                                              10,134
2019                                               7,936
as of 2020                                       22,267
total                                            89,270



purchase order commitments
purchase order commitments for property, plant and equipment as well as intangible assets amounted
€ 2,243 k on the balance sheet date (previous year: € 2,943 k).

190 |   www.leoni.com




                        litigation and claims
                        as reported, several civil proceedings in the form of class action lawsuits have been initiated against leoni
                        and other wiring systems manufacturers that operate internationally in the united states and canada since
                        october 2011. leoni continues to defend itself and still believes that it will be able to refute the allegations
                        and to bring the proceedings to a successful conclusion. the same applies to alleged breaches of the law in
                        connection with having taken over employees in france.
                           other than the above, there have not been any and there are currently no pending lawsuits or court pro-
                        ceedings that might have a major impact on leoni’s business.
                           in addition to the legal disputes described above, there are, in the context of leoni’s business activity,
                        pending claims for damages under warranty and product liability for compensation in amounts normal for
                        the sector, some of which are covered by insurance. appropriate amounts with respect to claims for damag-
                        es and, where applicable, claims against the insurers were recognised. possible future liability for damages
                        under warranty and/or for compensation may arise in an amount usual for the field of business the company
                        is dealing in.



                        27 | risk management and financial derivatives

                        credit risk
                        all customers that conclude business with the group on a credit basis are subject to credit screening. regular
                        analysis of receivables and the structure of the receivables facilitates ongoing monitoring of the risk. accounts
                        receivable management is organised in a decentralised way but is controlled by head office, which sets condi-
                        tions by means of the existing guideline for group-wide accounts receivable management.
                           there were no indications on the reporting date that trade receivables, which are neither impaired nor
                        overdue, would not be settled.


                        the table below shows the breakdown by region of receivables from customers:

                        [ in percentage points ]                         2014         2013
                        europe                                             43           51
                           thereof: germany                                 8            11
                        		            italy                                 4             4
                        		            hungary                               6             6
                        		            great britain                         6             5
                        		            france                                2             6
                        		            others                               17            19
                        asia                                               37           29
                           thereof: china                                  24            20
                        		            south korea                           6             5
                        		            others                                7             4
                        north america                                      16           14
                        others                                              4            6

                                                                                                                             | consolidated financial statements   |   191

                                                                                                                              notes
                                                                                                                              27 | risk management and
                                                                                                                              		 financial derivatives




the following table shows the size categories of receivables from customers on the balance sheet date:

                                                         2014                 2014          2013                   2013
                                                          [%]    [ total share in % ]        [%]      [ total share in % ]

largest customer                                           10                    10           10                      10
second largest customer                                     9                      9          10                      10
third to fifth largest customer                          3–6                     13         4–6                       14
other customers                                           <4                     68           <4                      66



information on the due dates of trade receivables is presented in note 11.
   28 percent (previous year: 34 percent) of all receivables were covered, with insurance limits, by a group
master policy with a credit insurer or other local credit insurers. insurance excess amounts were disregarded
in determining the total amount insured. the amount actually insured was consequently slightly below this
percentage. 50 percent (previous year: approx. 51 percent) of the non-insured receivables involved customers
that are exempt from contractually compulsory cover. the customers exempt from contractually compulsory
cover were mainly major companies in the automotive as well as electronic/electrical engineering sectors. for
22 percent (previous year: 15 percent) of total receivables there was no cover from a credit insurer.


the table below shows the breakdown of insured and non-insured receivables from customers:

[%]                                              2014           2013
receivables                                         28            34
receivables not covered by insurance
  exempt from compulsory cover                      50            51
  no covers                                         22            15


the insured subsidiaries must apply for credit insurance limits to the credit insurer for all receivables from
customers that are not exempt from compulsory cover and that exceed the limits specified on the existing
guideline. the following specific conditions apply: leoni has an obligation to declare exposure to the credit
insurers for all receivables from customers greater than € 50 k. a cover limit can also be obtained for small-
er receivables. consignment stores and manufacturing risks are covered by blanket insurance. the credit
insurance policy reimburses 90 percent of the insured amount. measurement and monitoring with respect to
impairment of the non-insured receivables is supported among other things by the credit screening carried
out by the credit insurer and other service providers.
   the subsidiaries that were not insured will be integrated in the master policy so far as this makes sense from
the aspect of the principal customer base and provided there are no regional or political reasons on the part
of the credit insurer against inclusion. the subsidiaries that cannot be integrated are to be covered via local
credit insurers. internal credit limits are set for major customers that are exempt from mandatory cover and
other non-insured customers. limits are applied for without delay, on a decentralised basis and are monitored
by head office accounts receivable management.
   factoring, or true sale factoring for selected customers, serves as a further tool to reduce the risk of default.
customers with good credit ratings are also included.

192 |   www.leoni.com




                        liquidity risk
                        the group monitors its current liquidity situation on a daily basis. monthly, currency-specific, rolling liquid-
                        ity planning for respective periods of at least twelve months is used to control future liquidity requirement.
                        the planning takes into consideration the terms of investments and financial assets (e.g. receivables, other
                        financial assets) as well as the expected cash flows from business activity. in addition, we analyse our existing
                        finance based on our medium-term planning, which we revise annually. we initiate suitable measures in good
                        time so far as there is any change in borrowing requirement.
                           the group’s objective is to ensure funding in the respectively required currency. flexibility is maintained by
                        using overdrafts, loans, leases, factoring and capital market instruments. a wide variety of financial instru-
                        ments is available to leoni on the capital market, from banks and among suppliers without the need for an
                        external rating, financial covenants or other collateralisation.
                           to ensure liquidity and to cover required guarantees, there were on the balance sheet date credit lines from
                        first-rate banks amounting to € 545,778 k (previous: € 478,735 k) with terms up to 42 months. these credit
                        lines were drawn via current accounts and fixed deposits in the amount of € 41,346 k (previous year:
                        € 13,814 k). together with the short-term proportion of long-term loans, current liabilities to banks amounted
                        to € 69,725 k (previous year: € 36,442 k).
                           the table below shows the contractually agreed (undiscounted) interest and principal payments pertaining
                        to the primary financial liabilities as well as the derivative financial instruments with negative fair values:

                                                                                                 carrying
                                                                                                  amount    cash flow   cash flow     cash flow     cash flow
                        2014                                                     [ € ‘000 ]   31/12/2014        2015        2016    2017 – 2019 starting 2020

                        non-derivative financial liabilities
                        trade payables                                                          (704,881)   (704,881)
                        liabilities to banks                                                    (197,150)    (74,277)     (8,807)     (128,748)         (503)
                        liabilities on bills of exchange and other financial debts                  (267)       (267)
                        borrower’s note loans                                                   (350,761)    (36,440)     (8,607)     (259,496)      (82,301)
                        other financial liabilities                                              (28,007)    (25,878)     (2,129)

                        derivative financial liabilities
                                                                                                             182,056      32,220
                        currency derivatives without a hedging relationship                      (10,162)
                                                                                                            (187,980)    (36,988)
                                                                                                             187,925      29,472          1,589
                        currency derivatives in connection with cash flow hedges                  (7,996)
                                                                                                            (194,164)    (29,650)        (1,644)
                        interest rate derivatives without a hedging relationship                    (529)       (618)
                        commodity future transactions                                               (166)       (166)

                                                                                                                                        | consolidated financial statements   |   193

                                                                                                                                         notes
                                                                                                                                         27 | risk management and
                                                                                                                                         		 financial derivatives




                                                                         carrying
                                                                          amount    cash flow   cash flow     cash flow     cash flow
2013                                                     [ € ‘000 ]   31/12/2013        2014        2015    2016 – 2018 starting 2019

non-derivative financial liabilities
trade payables                                                          (675,099)   (675,099)
liabilities to banks                                                    (150,709)    (40,765)     (8,319)     (115,771)         (581)
liabilities on bills of exchange and other financial debts                  (577)       (577)
borrower’s note loans                                                   (303,678)     (9,135)    (35,635)     (192,372)     (107,633)
other financial liabilities                                              (26,305)    (23,296)       (880)        (2,129)


derivative financial liabilities
                                                                                      37,910
currency derivatives without a hedging relationship                         (349)
                                                                                     (38,263)
                                                                                      53,708      12,294
currency derivatives in connection with cash flow hedges                    (979)
                                                                                     (54,018)    (12,046)
interest rate derivatives without a hedging relationship                  (2,857)     (2,373)       (585)


all instruments held on the respective balance sheet date and for which payments were already contractually
agreed were also included. foreign currency amounts were in each case translated at the spot rate on the
reporting date. the variable interest payments pertaining to the financial instruments were determined on
the basis of the interest rates fixed most recently prior to the respective balance sheet date. financial liabilities
repayable at any time are always allocated to the earliest time period. in the case of the currency derivates,
both the cash outflow and the cash inflow are presented in the table above for the purpose of transparency.
   non-deliverable forwards (ndfs) were signed to hedge amounts in currencies that are not freely converti-
ble. this form of foreign currency transaction involves fulfilment upon maturity being based not on handling
the cash flows in the corresponding currencies, but in the form of a settlement payment.


interest rate risks
we use interest rate derivatives, among other means, to avoid the risk of changes in interest rate rates. such
contracts are signed exclusively by leoni ag. on 31 december 2014, there was one interest rate derivative
maturing in three months. the agreed reference interest rate was the euribor for three months. due to the
early refinancing measures in fiscal 2012, this interest rate derivative no longer fulfilled the conditions for
hedge accounting. the changes in market value that occurred up to the date on which the hedge relationship
was ended were recognised within accumulated other comprehensive income. they remain in other compre-
hensive income and will be reclassified pro-rata over the remaining term of the derivative to finance costs in
the income statement. the residual value recognised in other comprehensive income as at 31 december 2014
amounted to negative € 556 k. the reclassification to finance costs amounted to € 2,223 k. changes in market
value occurring after the hedge relationship has ended are recorded in the income statement.

194 |   www.leoni.com




                        an interest rate swap was entered into for the borrower’s note loan in the amount of € 25,000 k newly taken
                        out in november 2013; in the same amount and with the same term to hedge the risk of changes in values.
                        leoni ag receives fixed interest on the nominal amount for the interest rate swap and pays a variable interest
                        rate including a margin. the interest rate swap hedges the fair value of the borrower’s note loan. the residual
                        term is five years and ten months, and the euribor was agreed as the reference interest rate for one year. the
                        increase in the interest rate swap’s fair value excluding accrued interest (clean fair value) by € 1,826 k (previous
                        year: a reduction by € 8 k) was netted as income in the financial result with the corresponding negative
                        amount from measurement of the borrower’s note loan. there was no ineffectiveness.
                           the changes in market value of the interest rate derivatives totalled € 4,155 k in the financial year (previous
                        year: € 2,420 k), which, as in the previous year, were recognised in full in the income statement.
                           we regard the counterparty risk as being very small because all derivative contracts were signed with na-
                        tional and international commercial banks that have first-class ratings. counterparty risk is subject to regular
                        monitoring.


                        interest rate sensitivity
                        consolidated earnings depend on the level of market interest rates. any change in this level would impact on
                        the group’s earnings and equity. the analysis we carry out covers all interest-bearing financial instruments
                        that are subject to the risk of changes in interest rates. at the end of the 2014 financial year, the interest rate
                        derivatives either no longer met the conditions for hedge accounting or the effects were recorded directly in
                        the income statement, meaning that the risk of changes in interest rates did not affect other comprehensive
                        income in equity.
                           when calculating the sensitivity of the interest rates we assume a parallel shift in the yield curve. the up-
                        ward shift comes to 50 basis points; the downward shift comes to just 25 basis points because of the currently
                        low level of interest rates. a rate of zero interest is applied as the floor. with respect to the currencies that are
                        key to us in this respect, the impact of the shift is as follows:

                        2014                                              [ € ‘000 ]   2013                                            [ € ‘000 ]

                        changes in interest, earnings        + 0.50 %     (0.25) %     changes in interest, earnings      + 0.50 %     (0.25) %
                        cny                                      458         (229)     cny                                     275        (137)
                        eur                                     (755)          378     eur                                    (40)          131


                        as at 31 december 2014, there were no primary financial assets held in the category at fair value through
                        profit or loss that would have to be included in the presentation. the primary financial assets in the availa-
                        ble-for-sale category as at 31 december 2014 comprise exclusively non-interest-bearing equity instruments.
                        they are consequently not at risk of changes in interest rates are not included in the assessment. nor are
                        fixed-interest financial instruments at risk of changes in interest rates and are thus disregarded in our assess-
                        ment. neither in the current year nor in the past year were cash flow hedges entered into to hedge interest
                        rates. there was consequently no effect in other comprehensive income.

                                                                                                                      | consolidated financial statements   |   195

                                                                                                                       notes
                                                                                                                       27 | risk management and
                                                                                                                       		 financial derivatives




currency risks
although we conduct business mainly in euros or in the local currency of the respective country, we are
increasingly faced with currency risks due to the globalisation of the markets.
    in the group’s holding company, leoni ag, the corporate finance department centrally deals with the
resulting currency risks in collaboration with and based on the conditions set by the currency committee with
respect to limits and terms. hedging transactions are executed in line with the existing underlying transac-
tions as well as the planned transactions.
    selection of the hedging instrument to be used is based on regular, in-depth analysis of the underlying
transaction to be hedged. most of the hedging transactions are in pounds sterling, chinese yuan, mexican
pesos, polish zloty, romanian leu and us dollars. the objective is to limit the impact of exchange rate variation
on net income. apart from the actual hedging transactions, we primarily take advantage of the option of
netting foreign currency items within the group to hedge our operating business activity. as a further curren-
cy-hedging measure, as a matter of principle we finance our foreign subsidiaries in their respective functional
currencies by way of refinancing in the corresponding currency.
    on the balance sheet date, there were currency-hedging transactions amounting to € 628,922 k (previous
year: € 462,404 k), maturing within 27 months. the total market value of forward exchange transactions
existing as of the balance sheet date was negative € 13,769 k (previous year: € 3,030 k). forward exchange
transactions amounting to € 277,149 k (previous year: € 179,123 k) met the conditions for hedge accounting
(cash flow hedge). the ones that met the conditions for hedge accounting were all completed in the 2013 and
2014 financial years. their total fair value of negative € 6,224 k (previous year: positive € 503 k) was recognised
in other comprehensive income. the cash flow from the underlying transactions is expected in the 2015 to
2017 financial years. the changes in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income are derecognised
via the income statement at the time the underlying transaction takes effect.
    the amounts recognised in other comprehensive income in the context of hedge accounting came to nega-
tive € 4,641 k in the financial year (previous year: positive € 2,970 k). an amount of € 2,092 k (previous year:
€ 2,677 k) was derecognised via the income statement as shown in the table below.

[ € ‘000 ]                                         2014        2013
sales                                               169           4
cost of sales                                      1,744      2,633
other operating income / expenses (inefficiency)    179          40
total                                              2,092      2,677


the currency hedging transactions, as well as our interest-rate-hedging transactions, were signed with first
rate commercial banks, meaning that there was no significant counterparty risk either. this area is also subject
to regular monitoring.
    there were no risks related to financial instruments on the balance sheet date that resulted in any notewor-
thy risk concentration.

196 |   www.leoni.com




                        exchange rate sensitivity
                        changes in exchange rates that are by prudent judgement essentially possible would affect consolidated
                        earnings due to the fair values of the monetary assets and liabilities. additional factors would arise that would
                        affect equity due to change in fair value in the context of cash flow hedge accounting. we consider the risk of
                        changes in interest rates arising from the currency derivatives to be immaterial, which is why it is not included
                        in the assessment.
                          the table below is based on the exchange rates as at the balance sheet date. it illustrates the impact arising,
                        from the perspective of the group companies concerned, from appreciation or devaluation of the foreign
                        currencies to be taken into account by 10 percent either way versus the respective functional currency. com-
                        prehensive income per currency therefore also includes the impact arising from appreciation or devaluation of
                        the euro for those group companies where the functional currency is one of those stated in the table.


                        2014                                            [ € ‘000 ]   2013                                           [ € ‘000 ]

                        changes in exchange rates, equity    + 10 %       (10) %     changes in exchange rates, equity    + 10 %      (10) %
                        egp                                   1,877      (1,536)     cny                                    184        (433)
                        usd                                  (2,952)       4,509     usd                                   (428)           758
                        mxn                                   4,005      (3,277)     pln                                  1,303      (1,066)
                        cny                                   5,556        1,746     mxn                                  3,866      (3,163)
                        ron                                  12,233     (10,009)     ron                                  11,073     (9,059)


                        changes in exchange rates, equity    + 10 %       – 10 %     changes in exchange rates, equity    + 10 %      (10) %
                        egp                                    (180)         147     cny                                    697         (911)
                        usd                                      94        1,084     usd                                    324        (480)
                        mxn                                    (653)         534     pln                                   (714)           584
                        cny                                   1,791          254     mxn                                   (457)           374
                        ron                                    (216)         177     ron                                   (983)           804



                        risks related to raw material prices
                        business within the wire & cable solutions division is sensitive to changes in raw materials prices, especially
                        of copper, but also gold and silver. for this reason, purchase prices for gold, silver and especially copper are
                        hedged by way of future transactions to cover the usual future procurement volume. such commodity future
                        transactions are signed within ordinary business activity and as part of purchasing activity for required raw
                        materials and therefore need not, in line with ias 39, be accounted for as financial derivatives. commodity
                        future transactions that are settled in cash are recognised as derivatives, changes in the fair value of which are
                        recognised in the cost of sales. the risks arising from these derivatives are of minor significance to the group.

                                                                                                                      | consolidated financial statements   |   197

                                                                                                                       notes
                                                                                                                       27 | risk management and
                                                                                                                       		 financial derivatives




capital management
the primary objective of leoni’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating,
a good equity ratio and appropriate gearing to support its business and increase shareholder value.
    the group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments based on the change in underlying eco-
nomic conditions. to maintain and adjust its capital structure, the group can make adjustments to dividend
payouts to shareholders, repay capital to shareholders or issue new shares. in order to have as broad a range
of funding options as possible, leoni aims to seek approval during its annual general meeting for all anticipa-
tory resolutions. no changes to the fundamental guidelines or processes were made in either the 2014 or 2013
financial years. leoni controls its capital with gearing. gearing is defined as the ratio of net financial debts to
equity.
    leoni expects a sustained equity ratio of at least 35 percent. due to fluctuation in elements of other
comprehensive income that cannot be influenced, which may for example be caused by actuarial measure-
ment of pension obligations or differences due to currency translation, the equity ratio could temporarily also
drop below this figure. with respect to gearing, a figure below 50 percent is the target to be met on a lasting
basis. during periods of acquisition this ratio may be temporarily exceeded. in principle, the aim is that capital
spending on organic growth that exceeds the market average can be generated from operating cash flow and
that reducing financial liabilities is possible.


[ € ‘000 ]                                            2014        2013
debt                                                548,178    454,964
less cash and cash equivalents                     (231,978)   (197,974)
net financial debts                                 316,200    256,990
equity                                              917,755     827,597

[ in % ]

gearing                                                34 %       31 %



at the end of fiscal 2014, gearing stood at 34 percent (previous year: 31 percent), which is attributable primar-
ily to the increase in net financial liabilities by about 23 percent accompanied by an increase of just 11 percent
in equity.

198 |   www.leoni.com




                                                     overview of financial instruments
                                                     the tables below show financial instruments held in the group on 31 december 2014 and in the previous year:


                                                                                                   amounts recognised in balance sheet according to ias 39

                                                                            category in      carrying                                        fair value       fair value
                                                                            accordance        amount       amortised                       recognised     recognised in      fair value
                  [ € ‘000 ]                                                with ias 39   31/12/2014            cost              cost        in equity    profit or loss   31/12/2013


                  assets
                  cash and cash equivalents                                        lar       231,978          231,978                                                          231,978
                  trade receivables                                                lar       544,936         544,936                                                           544,936
                  long-term trade receivables
                  from development contracts                                       lar        55,146           55,146                                                           55,146
                  other financial receivables                                      lar        17,626           17,626                                                           17,626
                  other non-derivative financial assets
                    available-for-sale financial assets                            afs         1,065                             1,065                                           1,065
                  derivative financial assets
                    derivatives without a hedging relationship                   fahft         2,615                                                               2,615         2,615
                    derivatives with a hedging relationship                        n/a         3,643                                             1,774            1,869          3,643


                  total equity and liabilities
                  trade payables                                                  flac       704,881         704,881                                                           704,881
                  liabilities to banks                                            flac       197,150          197,150                                                          199,646
                  liabilities on bills of exchange and other financial
                  liabilities                                                     flac           267              267                                                              267
                  borrower’s note loans                                           flac       350,761          350,761                                                          361,010
                  other financial liabilities                                     flac        28,007           28,007                                                           28,007
                  derivative financial liabilities
                    derivatives without a hedging relationship                   flhft        10,857                                                             10,857         10,857
                    derivatives with a hedging relationship                        n/a         7,996                                             7,996                           7,996


                  of which aggregated by categories in accordance with ias 39:
                  loans and receivables (lar)                                      lar       849,686         849,686                                                           849,686
                  available-for-sale financial assets (afs)                        afs         1,065                             1,065                                           1,065
                  financial assets held for trading (fahft)                      fahft         2,615                                                               2,615         2,615
                  financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (flac)         flac     1,281,066        1,281,066                                                        1,293,811
                  financial liabilities held for trading (flhft)                 flhft        10,857                                                             10,857         10,857

                                                                                                                                           | consolidated financial statements   |   199

                                                                                                                                             notes
                                                                                                                                             27 | risk management and
                                                                                                                                             		 financial derivatives




                                                                                 amounts recognised in balance sheet according to ias 39

                                                          category in      carrying                                        fair value       fair value
                                                          accordance        amount       amortised                       recognised     recognised in      fair value
[ € ‘000 ]                                                with ias 39   31/12/2013            cost              cost        in equity    profit or loss   31/12/2013


assets
cash and cash equivalents                                        lar       197,974          197,974                                                          197,974
trade receivables                                                lar       502,663         502,663                                                           502,663
long-term trade receivables from development
contracts                                                        lar        46,931           46,931                                                           46,931
other financial receivables                                      lar        18,658           18,658                                                           18,658
other non-derivative financial assets
  available-for-sale financial assets                            afs         1,065                             1,065                                            1,065
derivative financial assets
  derivatives without a hedging relationship                   fahft         3,149                                                               3,149          3,149
  derivatives with a hedging relationship                        n/a         1,519                                             1,482                 37         1,519


total equity and liabilities
trade payables                                                  flac       675,099          675,099                                                          675,099
liabilities to banks                                            flac       150,709          150,709                                                          149,156
liabilities on bills of exchange and other financial
liabilities                                                     flac           577              577                                                               577
borrower’s note loans                                           flac       303,678          303,678                                                          306,625
other financial liabilities                                     flac        26,305           26,305                                                           26,305
derivative financial liabilities
  derivatives without a hedging relationship                   flhft         3,206                                                              3,206           3,206
  derivatives with a hedging relationship                        n/a           979                                               979                              979


of which aggregated by categories in accordance with ias 39:
loans and receivables (lar)                                      lar       766,226         766,226                                                           766,226
available-for-sale financial assets (afs)                        afs         1,065                             1,065                                            1,065
financial assets held for trading (fahft)                      fahft         3,149                                                               3,149          3,149
financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (flac)         flac     1,156,368        1,156,368                                                        1,157,762
financial liabilities held for trading (flhft)                 flhft         3,206                                                              3,206           3,206




due to the short terms of the cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and other current receivables, the
fair values largely correspond to the carrying amounts.
    the fair values of other non-current receivables maturing after more than one year correspond to the pres-
ent values of payments relating to the assets, in each case taking into account the current interest parameters
that reflect market and partner-related changes in terms.

200 |   www.leoni.com




                        trade liabilities and other liabilities usually mature in the short term; the amounts on the balance sheet repre-
                        sent approximations of the fair value.
                           the fair values of liabilities to banks, the borrower’s note loans and the other non-current financial liabilities
                        are determined as the present values of the payments relating to the liabilities based on the respectively
                        applicable yield curves and taking into account the group-specific margins. for this reason the fair values are
                        to be allocated to hierarchy level 3.


                        derivative financial instruments
                        the detailed breakdown of the fair values of the derivative financial instruments and their nominal values was
                        as follows on the balance sheet date:

                                                                       31/12/2014          31/12/2014          31/12/2013         31/12/2013
                        [ € ‘000 ]                                   nominal value           fair value     nominal value           fair value

                        assets
                        currency contracts                                 181,005               4,389            358,300               4,358
                           forward exchange transactions
                         		chf                                                  0                    0             29,298                 112
                         		cny                                               1,861                 147                  0                   0
                         		gbp                                              87,862                 828             62,417                 639
                         		mxn                                              23,210                1,117            40,254                 568
                         		pln                                                  0                    0             45,314                 597
                         		ron                                              25,331                 396             65,357                 504
                         		usd                                              13,398                 110             87,251               1,594
                         		others                                           29,343               1,791             28,409                 344
                           (thereof hedge accounting)                       54,861               1,774             113,219              1,482
                        derivative interest rate contracts                  25,000               1,869             25,000                  37
                           interest swaps                                   25,000               1,869             25,000                  37
                           (thereof hedge accounting)                       25,000               1,869             25,000                  37
                        commodity future transactions                           0                    0             14,906                 272

                        total equity and liabilities
                        currency contracts                                 447,917              18,158            104,104               1,328
                           forward exchange transactions
                         		chf                                                  0                    0              5,617                  15
                         		cny                                              42,587               2,260                  0                   0
                         		gbp                                              12,714                  67              3,481                  87
                         		mxn                                              39,224               3,711             11,543                 377
                         		pln                                              30,332                 236             20,430                 253
                         		ron                                             101,431               1,053             43,251                 289
                         		usd                                             181,916              10,020             14,295                 147
                         		others                                           39,713                 811              5,487                 160
                           (thereof hedge accounting)                      222,288               7,996             65,904                 979
                        derivative interest rate contracts                  63,500                 529             63,500               2,857
                           interest swaps                                   63,500                 529             63,500               2,857
                           (thereof hedge accounting)                           0                    0                  0                   0
                        commodity future transactions                       14,113                 166                  0                   0

                                                                                                                                                   | consolidated financial statements   |   201

                                                                                                                                                    notes
                                                                                                                                                    27 | risk management and
                                                                                                                                                    		 financial derivatives




the fair values of the forward exchange transactions were based on current reference rates observable on
the market and taking into consideration forward premiums or discounts. leoni takes account of the risk of
non-fulfilment by business partners as well as the risk of non-fulfilment on the part of the group by determin-
ing correction values, known as credit value adjustments (cvas) or debt value adjustments (dvas), based on
applying a premium / discount. the fair values of the interest rate hedging instruments (interest swaps and in-
terest collars) were based on discounted future cash flows. the applicable market interest rates and volatilities
were used for the maturities of the financial instruments.


net results of the financial instruments
the net results of the financial instruments by measurement category were as follows:

                                                                                                                        thereof
                                                                               net result                          impairment losses
[ € ‘000 ]                                                                     2014              2013                  2014                2013
loans and receivables (lar)                                                   5,216            (8,318)               (2,714)             (1,624)
derivatives (hft)                                                            (9,706)            4,246                     0                   0
financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (flac)                       2,782             2,966                     0                   0
total                                                                        (1,708)           (1,106)               (2,714)             (1,624)



offsetting of financial instruments
leoni had derivative assets and derivative liabilities vis-à-vis various financial institutions that do not fulfil the
offsetting criteria under ias 32.42. accordingly, these derivative financial instruments were presented sepa-
rately in the statement of financial position. however, the concluded master contracts do contain offsetting
agreements in the case of insolvency. the overview below presents the corresponding figures:

                                                                                                          offsetting
31/12/2014                          [ € ‘000 ]     gross figures   netting       net figures             agreements            net figures

other financial assets
derivatives                                               5,965      0                 5,965               (4,444)                 1,521

other financial liabilities
derivatives                                          (18,666)        0            (18,666)                   4,444              (14,222)




                                                                                                          offsetting
31/12/2013                          [ € ‘000 ]     gross figures   netting       net figures             agreements            net figures

other financial assets
derivatives                                          4,307            0           4,307                  (1,351)                2,956

other financial liabilities
derivatives                                        (4,056)            0          (4,056)                  1,351                (2,705)

202 |   www.leoni.com




                                                     28 | measurement of fair value

                                                     the measurement of the fair values of assets and liabilities by hierarchy levels was as follows:

                                                                                                                  valuation methods where        valuation methods where
                                                                                                                   all principal parameters     all principal parameters are
                                                                                        prices quoted              are based on observable       not based on observable
                                                                                      on active markets                   market data                    market data
                  31/12/2014                                        [ € ‘000 ]             (step 1)                         (step 2)                       (step 3)                    total

                  assets measured at fair value
                  derivative financial assets
                    derivatives without a hedging relationship                                  0                              2,615                          0                        2,615
                    derivatives with a hedging relationship                                     0                             3,643                           0                        3,643

                  liabilities measured at fair value
                  derivative financial liabilities
                    derivatives without a hedging relationship                               166                             10,691                           0                      10,857
                    derivatives with a hedging relationship                                     0                              7,996                          0                        7,996



                                                                                                                  valuation methods where        valuation methods where
                                                                                                                   all principal parameters     all principal parameters are
                                                                                        prices quoted              are based on observable       not based on observable
                                                                                      on active markets                   market data                    market data
                  31/12/2013                                        [ € ‘000 ]             (step 1)                         (step 2)                       (step 3)                    total

                  assets measured at fair value
                  derivative financial assets
                    derivatives without a hedging relationship                               272                              2,877                           0                        3,149
                    derivatives with a hedging relationship                                     0                              1,519                          0                        1,519

                  liabilities measured at fair value
                  derivative financial liabilities
                    derivatives without a hedging relationship                                  0                             3,206                           0                        3,206
                    derivatives with a hedging relationship                                     0                                979                          0                         979


                                                     neither in the fiscal year under report nor in the previous one was there any movement between the individ-
                                                     ual levels.



                                                     29 | earnings per share

                                                     basic earnings per share are calculated as follows:

                                                                                                                                2014                                 2013
                                                                                                                               earnings per share                         earnings per share
                                                                                                                  total amount    group interests      total amount          group interests
                                                                                                                        [ € ‘000 ]             [€]           [ € ‘000 ]                 [€]

                                                     numerator:    income before taxes
                                                                   attributable to equity holders of the parent         150,299               4.60           130,768                   4.00
                                                                   consolidated net income
                                                                   attributable to equity holders of the parent         114,674               3.51           105,518                   3.23
                                                     denominator: weighted average
                                                                  number of shares outstanding                       32,669,000                          32,669,000


                                                     as in the previous year, the number of shares outstanding on 31 december 2014, of 32,669,000, corresponded
                                                     to the number of shares issued. as in the previous year, there was no dilution effect in the financial year under
                                                     report.

                                                                                                                        | consolidated financial statements       |   203

                                                                                                                         notes
                                                                                                                          28 | measurement of fair value
                                                                                                                          29 | earnings per share
                                                                                                                          30 | auditor’s professional fees
                                                                                                                          31 | personnel expenses and employees




30 | auditor’s professional fees

the following expenses were recognised in the financial year for work performed by the auditors appoint-
ed to audit the financial statements and consolidated financial statements as at 31 december 2014: € 773 k
(previous year: € 754 k) for the audit, as in the previous year € 200 k for the auditor’s review of the six-month
financial statements and € 25 k (previous year: € 41 k) for other assurance services, € 344 (previous year:
€ 364 k) for tax consulting services and € 8 k (previous year: € 56 k) for other services.



31 | personnel expenses and employees

[ € ‘000 ]                                                                              2014                    2013
wages and salaries                                                                    659,555                 625,342
social-security contributions, expenses for pensions and retirement
and fringe benefits                                                                   157,196                 140,696
                                                                                     816,751                  766,038




the latter item includes the following retirement benefit expenses:

[ € ‘000 ]                                                                              2014                    2013
net periodic pension cost                                                              11,400                   9,373
costs of defined contribution plans                                                    64,524                  61,237
                                                                                      75,924                   70,610


annual average number of employees::

                                                                                        2014                    2013
salaried staff                                                                         11,970                  10,825
wage earners                                                                           54,285                  49,685
                                                                                      66,255                   60,510


the group employed 67,988 people on the balance sheet date (previous year: 61,591), of which 63,680 worked
outside germany (previous year: 57,369).

204 |   www.leoni.com




                        other information


                        32 | transactions with related parties

                        the compensation for management in key positions within the group comprises the compensation for active
                        members of the management board and the supervisory board.

                        [ € ‘000 ]                                                                           2014                    2013
                        benefits due in the short term                                                       4,422                   3,767
                        benefits due in the long term                                                        2,049                   1,643
                        post-employment benefits                                                              385                        394
                                                                                                             6,856                   5,804


                        the short-term benefits included, along with the fixed compensation, a variable component of € 2,356 k
                        (previous year: € 1,991 k). the other benefits due in the long term comprise the medium-term and long-term
                        compensation components. the long-term compensation component is computed based on the compa-
                        ny’s economic value added (eva) and the market performance of its share, and is shown in a bonus account.
                        an amount is paid out annually from this bonus account up to a cap, 50 percent of which members of the
                        management board must invest in leoni shares and which must be retained for a period of 50 months. poor
                        business performance will reduce the bonus account (penalty rule), which can drop to nil. the expense for the
                        long-term compensation component in fiscal 2014 was € 922 k (previous year: € 711 k). the basic principles of
                        the compensation system and the receipts of individual management board members are presented in the
                        management report.
                            the receipts of the management board members pursuant to article 314 section 1(6a) of the german
                        commercial code (hgb) totalled € 7,280 k (previous year: € 4,435 k). unlike presentation in the previous year,
                        medium-term compensation components with conditions precedent are included in the total receipts not pro
                        rata temporis but fully at the time of fulfilment.
                            the compensation for members of the supervisory board in the year under report totalled € 1,442 k (previ-
                        ous year: € 1,441 k). the basic principles of the compensation system and the receipts of individual superviso-
                        ry board members are presented in the management report.


                        compensation for employee-representative members of the supervisory board
                        the employee-representatives on leoni ag’s supervisory board received compensation based on their
                        service contracts at leoni. leoni’s related expenses were € 378 k (previous year: € 421 k). on 31 december
                        2014 there were liabilities in the amount of € 30 k (previous year: 25 k) pertaining to service contracts with
                        employee-representative members of the supervisory board.

                                                                                                                      | consolidated financial statements   |   205

                                                                                                                       notes
                                                                                                                       32 | transactions
                                                                                                                       		 with related parties




compensation for former management board members
the receipts in the financial year of former members of the management board and their surviving depend-
ants amounted to € 522 k (previous year: € 502 k). there is provision for the pension obligations vis-à-vis for-
mer members of the management board and their surviving dependants in the amount of € 9,719 k (previous
year: € 8,206 k).


joint ventures and associates
the group had business relationships with joint ventures. transactions with these related parties result from
normal trade in goods and services and were concluded on standard market terms. the extent of these busi-
ness relationships is presented in the following table.

[ € ‘000 ]

                                                    income from sales
purchases / sales                                         and services       purchases from      amounts due from          amounts due to
from / to related parties            fiscal year     to related parties       related parties       related parties         related parties
                                          2014                      45                 1,771                    12                       842
joint ventures
                                           2013                     32                 2,736                     0                       843



other relationships with related parties
dr bernd rödl has been a member of the supervisory board since 14 may 2009. dr rödl is a shareholder in all
the entities of the rödl & partner group in and outside germany. various entities of the rödl & partner compa-
ny performed services for the group. these amounted to € 104 k in the 2014 financial year (previous year:
€ 74 k). on 31 december 2014, there were liabilities to these companies in the amount of € 4 k (previous year:
€ 10 k). all consulting and other services sourced were invoiced on standard market terms.
    ms ingrid hofmann has been a member of the supervisory board since 12 may 2011. ms hofmann is manag-
ing partner of i.k. hofmann gmbh, a temporary employment business with subsidiaries in austria, the czech
republic, the united kingdom and the united states from which leoni sourced services. these services were
invoiced on standard market terms. in fiscal 2014, services were sourced from this temporary employment
company amounting to € 738 k (previous year: € 475 k) and there was a liability to the company on 31 decem-
ber 2014 of € 31 k (previous year: € 56 k).
    dr werner lang has been a member of the supervisory board since 16 may 2012. dr lang is managing di-
rector of lang verwaltungsgesellschaft mbh and thereby of mekra lang gmbh & co. kg, ing. h. lang gmbh
& co. kg, lang technics gmbh & co. kg as well as mekra global mirrors gmbh. in the 2014 financial year
leoni sold product to mekra lang gmbh & co. kg. in the amount of € 1,344 k (previous year: € 939 k). on the
balance sheet date there were liabilities to this company in the amount of € 104 k (previous year: € 91 k). the
goods were supplied on standard market terms.
    there were no other reportable transactions with related parties.

206 |   www.leoni.com




                        33 | declaration pertaining to the german corporate
                        governance code pursuant to article 161 of the german public
                        companies act (aktg)

                        in december 2014, the management board and the supervisory board issued the updated declaration of con-
                        formity pursuant to article 161 of the german public companies act and made this available to shareholders
                        on a permanent basis by publishing it on the internet (www.leoni.com). the declaration of conformity is also
                        included in the corporate governance report, which is published in the 2014 annual report.



                        34 | events occurring after the balance sheet date

                        there have been no particular events that might have had a material effect on the group’s financial position or
                        performance since the balance sheet date.




                        nuremberg, 23 february 2015


                        leoni ag
                        the management board




                        dr klaus probst           dieter bellé          dr andreas brand            dr frank hiller

| consolidated financial statements    |     207

 notes
 33 | declaration pertaining to the german
 		 corporate governance code pursuant to
 		 article 161 of the german public
 		 companies act (aktg)
 34 | events occurring after the
 		 balance sheet date

208 |   www.leoni.com




                        scope of consolidation

                                                                                  ownership                                                                ownership
                                                                                       in %                                                                     in %
                                                                                              leoni kablo ve teknolojileri sanayi ve ticaret ltd.
                        i. consolidated companies                                             sirketi, mudanya, turkey                                           95
                                                                                              leoni slovakia spol. s r.o.,trencin, slovakia           4)
                                                                                                                                                                100
                                                                                              leoni special cables iberica s.a.,
                        leoni ag, nuremberg, germany
                                                                                              sant boi de llobregat (barcelona), spain                          100
                                                                                              leoni schweiz ag, däniken, switzerland                            100
                                                                                              leoni studer ag, däniken, switzerland                             100
                        1. wire & cable solutions division
                                                                                              leoni tailor-made cable uk ltd.,
                                                                                              chesterfield, derbyshire, united kingdom                          100
                        federal republic of germany                                           leoni temco ltd., cinderford, gloucestershire,
                        leoni kabel holding gmbh, nuremberg                  1)
                                                                                       100    united kingdom                                                    100
                        leoni kabel verwaltungs-gmbh, nuremberg              1)
                                                                                       100    lkh leoni kábelgyár hungária kft., hatvan,
                                                                                              hungary                                                           100
                        haarländer gmbh, roth                                1)
                                                                                       100
                                                                                              neumatic cz, s.r.o., mírová pod kozákovem,
                        kb kabel beteiligungs-gmbh, nuremberg                          100    czech republic                                                    100
                        leoni kabelsysteme gmbh, neu-ulm                     1)
                                                                                       100    leoni wcs southeast europe d.o.o.,
                                                                                              prokuplje, serbia                                                 100
                        leoni cable assemblies gmbh, roth                    1)
                                                                                       100
                        leoni draht gmbh, nuremberg                          1)
                                                                                       100
                                                                                              outside europe
                        leoni elocab gmbh, georgensgmünd                     1)
                                                                                       100
                                                                                              leoni fiber optics, inc., williamsburg, virginia, usa             100
                        leoni fiber optics gmbh, neuhaus-schierschnitz       1)
                                                                                       100
                                                                                              leoni (m) sdn. bhd. [i.l.], subang jaya, malaysia                  75
                        leoni hightemp solutions gmbh, halver                1)
                                                                                       100
                                                                                              leoni (s.e.a.) pte. ltd., singapore                                75
                        leoni kabel gmbh, nuremberg                          1)
                                                                                       100
                                                                                              leoni cable maroc sarl, mohammedia, morocco                       100
                        leoni kerpen gmbh, stolberg                          1)
                                                                                       100
                                                                                              leoni cable (china) co., ltd., changzhou, china                   100
                        leoni protec cable systems gmbh, schmalkalden        1)
                                                                                       100
                                                                                              leoni cable (xiamen) co., ltd., xiamen, china                     100
                        leoni special cables gmbh, friesoythe                1)
                                                                                       100
                                                                                              leoni cable, inc., rochester, michigan, usa             2)
                                                                                                                                                                100
                        leoni studer hard gmbh, bautzen                                100    leoni cable s.a. de c.v.,
                        j-fiber gmbh, jena                                   1)
                                                                                       100    cuauhtémoc, chihuahua, mexico                           2)
                                                                                                                                                                100
                        j-plasma gmbh, jena                                            100    leoni wiring systems de hermosillo s.a. de c.v.,
                                                                                              cuauhtemoc, chihuahua, mexico                           2)
                                                                                                                                                                100
                        fibercore machinery jena gmbh, jena                  1)
                                                                                       100
                                                                                              leoni elocab ltd., kitchener, ontario, canada                     100
                                                                                              leoni engineering products & services, inc.,
                        other european countries
                                                                                              troy, michigan, usa                                               100
                        leoni cable belgium n.v., hasselt, belgium                     100
                                                                                              leoni wire (changzhou) co., ltd., changzhou, china                100
                        leoni cia cable systems s.a.s.,
                        gellainville, france                                           100    leoni cable solutions (india) pvt. ltd., pune, india              100

                        leoni furas s.l., barcelona, spain                             100    leoni wire, inc., chicopee, massachusetts, usa          2)
                                                                                                                                                                100
                                                                                              leoni wire & cable solutions japan k.k.,
                        leoni italy s.r.l., felizzano (alessandria), italy   3)
                                                                                       100
                                                                                              nagakuteshi, japan                                                 99
                        leoni kabel polska sp. z o.o., kobierzyce, poland              100    leoni middle east fze,
                                                                                              dubai, united arab. emirates                                      100

                                                                                                                                                           | consolidated financial statements   |   209

                                                                                                                                                            scope of consolidation




                                                         ownership                                                                           ownership
                                                              in %                                                                                in %
                                                                     leoni wiring systems (tieling) co., ltd.,
2. wiring systems division                                           tieling city, china                                                             100
                                                                     leoni wiring systems tunisia sarl,
                                                                     m’saken-sousse, tunesia                                                         100
federal republic of germany
                                                                     leoni wiring systems (changchun) co., ltd.,
leoni bordnetz-systeme gmbh, kitzingen              1)
                                                              100    changchun, china                                                                100
leoni con-tech gmbh, kitzingen                      1)
                                                              100    leoni wiring systems ain sebaa s.a.,
                                                                     aïn sebâa, casablanca, morocco                                                  100
other european countries                                             leoni wiring systems bouskoura s.a.,
                                                                     bouskoura, casablanca, morocco                                                  100
leoni autokabel polska sp. z o.o. [i.l.] ,
ostrzeszów, poland                                            100    leoni wiring systems bouznika s.a.,
                                                                     bouznika, morocco                                                               100
leoni wiring systems arad s.r.l.,
arad, romania                                                 100    leoni wiring systems de durango s.a. de c.v.,
                                                                     chihuahua, mexico                                                               100
leoni wiring systems france s.a.s.,
montigny le bretonneux, france                                100    leoni wiring systems egypt s.a.e.,
                                                                     nasr city, kairo, egypt                                                         100
leoni wiring systems pitesti s.r.l.,
sat bascov, romania                                           100    leoni wiring systems, inc.,
                                                                     tucson, arizona, usa                                                            100
leoni wiring systems ro s.r.l.,
bistrita-nasaud, romania                                      100    leoni wiring systems mexicana s.a. de c.v.,
                                                                     hermosillo, mexico                                                              100
leoni wiring systems spain s.l.,
santa perpetua/barcelona, spain                               100    leoni wiring systems de paraguay s.r.l.,
                                                                     asunción, paraguay                                                              100
leoni wiring systems u.k. ltd.,
newcastle-under-lyme, staffordshire,                                 leoni wiring systems (pune) pvt. ltd.,
united kingdom                                                100    pune, maharashtra, india                                                        100
tov leoni wiring systems ua gmbh,                                    leoni wiring systems korea, inc.,
striy, ukraine (formerly: leoni wiring systems ua                    busan (jisa-dong), korea                                                        100
(gmbh), strij, ukraine)                                       100    leoni electrical systems (jining) co., ltd.,
leoni wiring systems viana lda.,                                     jining, china                                                                   100
viana do castelo, portugal                                    100    leoni electrical systems (penglai) co., ltd.,
leonische portugal lda.,                                             penglai, china                                                                  100
lugar de sao martinho, guimaraes, portugal                    100
ooo leoni rus, zavolzhye, russia                                     ii. associated companies and joint ventures
(formerly: ooo leoni wiring systems zavolzhie,
zavolzhie, russia)                                            100
                                                                     wiring systems division
leoni wiring systems southeast d.o.o.,
prokuplje, serbia                                             100    intedis gmbh & co. kg, würzburg, germany                                        50

leoni wiring systems s.r.l., chisinau, moldova                100    intedis verwaltungs-gmbh, würzburg, germany                                     50
                                                                     intedis e/e-engineering and technology (shanghai)
                                                                     co., ltd. [i.l.], shanghai, china                                               50
outside europe
                                                                     leoni furukawa wiring systems s.a.s.,
leoni automotive do brasil ltda.,
                                                                     montigny le bretonneux, france                                                  50
itú, saõ paulo, brazil                                        100
leoni electrical systems (shanghai) co., ltd.,
shanghai, china                                               100
langfang leoni wiring systems co., ltd.,
sanhe downtown, china                                         100




                                                                     1)
                                                                          companies that make use of the exemption under article 264, section 3
                                                                          of the german commercial code.
                                                                     2)
                                                                          these companies are legally part of the wiring systems division.
                                                                     3)
                                                                          this company operates for both divisions.
                                                                     4)
                                                                          this company’s wiring systems business was economically allocated to the
                                                                          wiring systems division, which holds 26.93 % of the company’s capital.

210 |   www.leoni.com




                        independent auditor’s report


                        translation of the german language audit opinion concerning the audit of the financial statements prepared
                        in german:


                        we have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of leoni ag, nuremberg, and its sub-
                        sidiaries, which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive
                        income, the consolidated statement of cash flows, the consolidated statement of financial position, and the
                        consolidated statement of changes in equity, notes to the consolidated financial statements for the business
                        year from january 1 to december 31, 2014.


                        management’s responsibility for the consolidated financial statements
                        the management of leoni ag is responsible for the preparation of these consolidated financial statements.
                        this responsibility includes preparing these consolidated financial statements in accordance with internation-
                        al financial reporting standards as adopted by the eu, and the supplementary requirements of german law
                        pursuant to sec. 315a (1) hgb [“handelsgesetzbuch“: german commercial code], to give a true and fair view
                        of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the group in accordance with these require-
                        ments. the company’s management is also responsible for the internal controls that management determines
                        are necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material
                        misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.


                        auditor’s responsibility
                        our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
                        we conducted our audit in accordance with sec. 317 hgb and german generally accepted standards for the
                        audit of financial statements promulgated by the institut der wirtschaftsprüfer [institute of public auditors
                        in germany] (idw) as well as in supplementary compliance with international standards on auditing (isa).
                        accordingly, we are required to comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain
                        reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstate-
                        ment.
                          an audit involves performing audit procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclo-
                        sures in the consolidated financial statements. the selection of audit procedures depends on the auditor’s
                        professional judgment. this includes the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated
                        financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. in assessing those risks, the auditor considers the internal
                        control system relevant to the entity’s preparation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true
                        and fair view. the aim of this is to plan and perform audit procedures that are appropriate in the given circum-
                        stances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the group’s internal control
                        system. an audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasona-
                        bleness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the
                        consolidated financial statements.
                          we believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
                        audit opinion.

                                                                                                                    | consolidated financial statements   |   211

                                                                                                                     independent auditor’s report




audit opinion
pursuant to sec. 322 (3) sentence 1 hgb, we state that our audit of the consolidated financial statements has
not led to any reservations.
  in our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the consolidated financial statements comply in all mate-
rial respects with ifrss as adopted by the eu and the supplementary requirements of german commercial law
pursuant to sec. 315a (1) hgb and give a true and fair view of the net assets and financial position of the group
as at december 31, 2014 as well as the results of operations for the business year then ended, in accordance
with these requirements.


report on the group management report
we have audited the accompanying group management report of leoni ag for the business year from
january 1 to december 31, 2014. the management of leoni ag is responsible for the preparation of the group
management report in compliance with the applicable requirements of german commercial law pursuant to
sec. 315a (1) hgb. we are required to conduct our audit in accordance with sec. 317 (2) hgb and german gen-
erally accepted standards for the audit of the group management report promulgated by the idw. accord-
ingly, we are required to plan and perform the audit of the group management report to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial state-
ments and the audit findings, and as a whole provides a suitable view of the group’s position and suitably
presents the opportunities and risks of future development.
  pursuant to sec. 322 (3) sentence 1 hgb, we state that our audit of the group management report has not
led to any reservations.
  in our opinion, based on the findings of our audit of the consolidated financial statements and group man-
agement report, the group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements, and
as a whole provides a suitable view of the group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks
of future development.


nuremberg, 23 february 2015
ernst & young gmbh
wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft


schuberth                      schütz
wirtschaftsprüfer              wirtschaftsprüfer
[german public auditor]        [german public auditor]

212 |   www.leoni.com




                        responsibility statement

                        to the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the consolidated
                        financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the
                        group, and the group management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the
                        business and the position of the group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks
                        associated with the expected development of the group.


                        nuremberg, 23 february 2015


                        the management board




                        dr klaus probst             dieter bellé           dr andreas brand               dr frank hiller

                                                                                                                                  |   213

                                                                                       consolidated income statement
                                                                                       consolidated statement of comprehensive
                                                                                       income
                                                                                       consolidated statement of comprehensive
                                                                                       income
                                                                                       consolidated statement of financial position
                                                                                       consolidated statement of changes in equity




additional information

leoni will maintain its course of earnings-oriented growth in the future,
too. for the 2015 financial year we have budgeted for a moderate sales
rise to about € 4.3 billion and a significant earnings increase to more
than € 200 million. there is also to be another significant increase in
capital investment to about € 240 million because of numerous new
projects for our customers and to further globalise the business.




                                                                            218 ten-year overview
          215 e xtract from the
              financial statement of leoni ag




                                   217 appropriation of profits

214 |   www.leoni.com




                                                 222 glossary




                                                                224 index of key words
                               220 un global compact index
                        220 glossar
                                                                         222 stichwortverzeichnis

                                                                                                               | additional information           |   215

                                                                                                                extract from the
                                                                                                                financial statement of leoni ag




extract from the financial statement of leoni ag

income statement

[ € ‘000 ] 01/01/ – 31/12/                                                   under hgb     2014       2013
       1. other operating income                                                          87,248     86,780
       2. personnel expenditure:
         a) salaries                                                                      24,130     21,475
         b) social security contributions and
            expenditure for retirement benefits and support payments                       3,107      3,233
                                                                                         (27,237)   (24,708)
       3. amortisation of intangible investment assets and depreciation of
          property, plant and equipment                                                   (5,122)    (4,407)
       4. other operating expenses                                                       (56,619)   (52,194)
       5. income from investments                                                              0      5,000
       6. income from profit transfer agreement                                           49,529     41,322
       7. income from financial loans                                                     21,547     16,590
       8. other interest and similar income                                                6,156      4,976
       9. writedowns on investments                                                      (10,766)    (4,570)
     10. interest and similar expenses                                                   (18,291)   (19,732)
     11. income before taxes                                                              46,445     49,057
     12. income taxes                                                                     (1,882)     (522)
     13. other taxes                                                                         (31)       (28)
     14. net income                                                                       44,532     48,507
     15. earnings brought forward from the previous year                                     890      1,051
     16. transfer to other retained earnings                                              (5,000)   (16,000)
     17. retained income                                                                  40,422     33,558

216 |   www.leoni.com




                        balance sheet

                        [ € ‘000 ]                                             under hgb       2014        2013
                               assets intangible assets                                        7,308       8,165
                                      property, plant and equipment                            4,262       5,509
                                      shares in affiliated companies                         488,824     488,824
                                      loans to affiliated companies                          483,175     525,254
                                      other loans                                                 0           0
                                      investments                                            971,999   1,014,078
                                      fixed assets                                          983,569    1,027,752


                                      accounts receivable and other assets                   453,370     280,992
                                      cash and cash equivalents                              112,576     117,778
                                      current assets                                        565,946     398,770
                                      deferred charges                                        2,623       2,264
                                      total assets                                         1,552,138   1,428,786


                          equity and equity (contingent capital € 14,850 k)                 557,045     545,182
                           liabilities
                                       pension plans and similar obligations                  15,317      13,579
                                      tax provisions                                            388         280
                                      other provisions and accruals                           22,379      18,111
                                      provisions and accruals                                38,084      31,970
                                      debt                                                  488,307     427,939
                                      other liabilities                                     468,702     423,695
                                      total equity and liabilities                         1,552,138   1,428,786

                                                       | additional information    |   217

                                                        appropriation of profits




appropriation of profits

retained earnings for fiscal 2014 determined
under the german commercial code (hgb)
amount to                           € 40,421,483.65


we propose to pay a dividend from this
distributable profit of € 1.20 per share,
equal to a payout of                € 39,202,800.00


the remainder of                      € 1,218,683.65
has to be carried forward.



nuremberg, 23 february 2015


leoni ag
the management board

218 |   www.leoni.com




                        ten-year overview

                        under ifrs                                                                                                               2014           2013         2012
                        sales                  group [ € ‘000 ]                                                                            4,103,434        3,917,886   3,809,007
                                               germany [ % ]                                                                                      27.0           27.8        27.0
                                               europe (without germany) [ % ]  1
                                                                                                                                                  37.8           39.5        40.1
                                               rest of world 1 [ % ]                                                                              35.2           32.7        32.9
                                               wire & cable solutions [ % ]                                                                       41.5           40.8        42.1
                                               wiring systems [ % ]                                                                               58.5           59.2        57.9
                        expenses               cost of materials [ € ‘000 ]                                                                2,436,320        2,354,687   2,294,370
                                               cost of materials [ % of sales ]                                                                   59.4           60.1        60.2
                                               personnel expenses [ € ‘000 ]                                                                  816,751        766,038     730,873
                                               personnel expenses [ % of sales ]                                                                  19.9           19.6        19.2
                                               depreciation and amortisation [ € ‘000 ]                                                       123,392        120,992     116,202
                                               depreciation and amortisation [ % of sales ]                                                         3.0           3.1         3.1
                        earnings               ebitda [ € ‘000 ]                                                                              305,897        284,137     354,094
                                               ebit [ € ‘000 ]                                                                                182,505        163,145     237,892
                                               ebit margin [ % of sales ]                                                                           4.4           4.2         6.2
                                               income / loss before taxes (from continuing operations) [ € ‘000 ]                             150,719        131,220     199,326
                                               net income / loss [ € ‘000 ]                                                                   115,060        105,896     157,049
                        cash flow              cash provided by operating activities [ € ‘000 ]                                               180,858        187,442     211,710
                                               cash used for capital spending activities [ € ‘000 ]                                           218,736        150,654     125,499
                                               free cash flow before acquisitions and divestments [ € ‘000 ]                                 (37,878)         36,668      63,483
                        balance sheet property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, goodwill [ € ‘000 ]                                1,040,410         940,455     917,691
                                               reinvestment rate [ % ]                                                                           174.9         139.2       132.7
                                               net debt [ € ‘000 ]                                                                            316,200        256,990     249,169
                                               equity [ € ‘000 ]                                                                              917,755        827,597     783,972
                                               equity [ % of balance sheet total ]                                                                34.4           34.5        32.9
                                               return on equity (roe) [ % ]                                                                       12.5           12.8        20.0
                                               return on capital employed (roce) [ % ]                                                            13.7           13.4        20.9
                        employees              employees [ as per 31 december ]                                                                67,988         61,591      59,393
                                               employed abroad [ % ]                                                                              93.7           93.1        93.0
                        share                  market capitalisation 31 december [ € million ]                                                1,613.7         1,774.9      932.7
                                               consolidated net income / loss per share [ € ]                                                     3.51           3.23        4.80
                                               dividend per share [ € ]                                                                           1.20 2         1.00        1.50
                                               dividend yield [ % ]                                                                                 2.4 2         1.8         5.3
                        1
                            the country allocation was changed in 2014; the figure for fiscal 2013 was adjusted to provide a better basis for comparison.
                        2
                            subject to approval by shareholders at the annual general meeting

                                                                                     | additional information   |   219

                                                                                      ten-year overview




    2011        2010        2009         2008        2007        2006        2005
3,701,487   2,955,671   2,160,117    2,911,964   2,366,779   2,108,244   1,547,973
     28.8        31.8        34.4         31.4        38.1        41.2        45.3
     39.4        39.5        42.0         44.6        34.1        32.2        32.7
     31.8        28.7        23.6         24.0        27.8        26.6        22.0
     45.3        44.7        43.3         48.1        58.3        54.7        43.2
     54.7        55.3        56.7         51.9        41.7        45.3        56.8
2,238,455   1,738,408   1,253,333    1,767,181   1,434,792   1,248,514    848,710
     60.5        58.8        58.0         60.7        60.6        59.2        54.8
 669,119     607,687     530,663      596,194     449,276     399,412     330,406
     18.1        20.6        24.6         20.5        19.0        18.9        21.3
 107,045     110,282     111,457      110,229      72,669      64,255      56,737
      2.9         3.7         5.2          3.8         3.1         3.0         3.7
 344,186     241,006      (4,862)     165,913     210,771     193,629     159,144
 237,141     130,724    (116,319)      55,684     138,102     130,574     102,829
      6.4         4.4        (5.4)         1.9         5.8         6.2         6.6
 196,250      89,599    (157,309)      15,760     116,531     116,599      88,830
 155,959      67,246    (138,081)       5,197      86,219      79,325      56,093
 246,105     142,297      88,783      132,726     190,837     136,099     111,071
 126,901      95,512      87,000      137,256     401,464     181,376      81,923
 121,194      50,697       2,122      (13,924)    101,372      60,649      46,797
 837,693     809,617     796,567      839,423     537,482     489,198     396,495
   128.4         93.5        73.4       143.7       128.9       130.2       114.6
 233,922     444,558     495,367      533,225     473,211     236,912     167,489
 737,481     481,160     369,126      447,688     525,642     481,701     427,152
     31.8        23.8        21.0         24.2        32.9        35.1        40.6
     21.1        14.0       (37.4)         1.2        16.4        16.5        13.1
     24.0        13.9      (12.0)          5.4        15.4        18.9        17.3
  60,745      55,156      49,822       50,821      36,855      35,129      32,638
     93.4        93.2        92.4         91.7        89.0        89.0        88.7
   841.2       978.6       485.6        385.8       997.9       917.7       799.8
     4.99        2.26      (5.04)         0.17        2.87        2.64        1.89
     1.50        0.70        0.00         0.20        0.90        0.80        0.57
      5.8         2.1           0          1.5         2.7         2.6         2.1

220 |   www.leoni.com




                        un global compact index
                        as a member of the un global compact, leoni commits itself to fulfilling the ten principles described therein,
                        which cover human rights and labour law, environmental protection as well as combating corruption. leoni
                        already applies many of these principles. the index below refers to corresponding information. more detail
                        can be found in our annual un global compact communication on progress (cop).




                        un global compact principles                             leoni ag implementation         annual report / website


                        human rights
                        companies shall …

                        principle 1
                        support and observe the protection of international      leoni social charta             www.leoni.com /
                        human rights within their sphere of influence and …      art. 1 fundamental objectives   company / sustainability / employees

                                                                                 1.1 human rights


                                                                                 cop 1, pages 6-7

                        principle 2
                        sensure that they are not complicit in human rights      leoni social charta             www.leoni.com /
                        abuses.                                                  art. 2 implementation, 2.3      company / sustainability / employees


                                                                                 cop 1, pages 6-7


                        labour standards
                        companies shall …

                        principle 3
                        safeguard the freedom of association and effective       leoni social charta             www.leoni.com /
                        recognition of the right to collective negotiations as   art. 1 fundamental objectives   company / sustainability / employees
                        well as strive towards …                                 1.2 freedom of association


                                                                                 cop 1, pages 8-9

                        principle 4
                        the eradication of forced labour in all forms, …         leoni social charta             www.leoni.com /
                                                                                 art. 1 fundamental objectives   company / sustainability / employees

                                                                                 1.4 free choice of employment


                                                                                 cop 1, pages 8-9

                        principle 5
                        the abolition of child labour and …                      leoni social charta             www.leoni.com /
                                                                                 art. 1 fundamental objectives   company / sustainability / employees

                                                                                 1.5 no child labour


                                                                                 cop 1, pages 8-9

                                                                                                                                          | additional information   |   221

                                                                                                                                           un global compact index




un global compact principles                                       leoni ag implementation         annual report / website

principle 6
the eradication of discrimination in recruitment and               leoni social charta             www.leoni.com /
employment.                                                        art. 1 fundamental objectives   company / sustainability / employees

                                                                   1.3 no discrimination

                                                                   leoni code of ethics            www.leoni.com /
                                                                   3. h)                           company / sustainability / employees


                                                                   cop 1, pages 8-9


environmental protection
companies shall …

principle 7
support a pre-emptive approach in dealing with                     iso 14001 –                     page 95
environmental problems, …                                          environmental certification

                                                                   environmental protection        pages 95-96
                                                                   measures


                                                                   cop 1, pages 10-12

principle 8
launch initiatives to instil greater awareness of                  environmental protection        pages 95-96
responsibility for the environment, and …                          measures


                                                                   cop 1, pages 10-12

principle 9
promote the development and spread of environmen-                  green technology                pages 97-98
tally friendly technologies.

                                                                   cop 1, pages 10-12


anti-corruption
companies shall …

principle 10
commit themselves to combat all forms of corruption,               leoni code of ethics            www.leoni.com /
including blackmail and bribery.                                   3. a), d), e), g), i), j)       company / sustainability / employees


                                                                   cop 1, pages 13-14


                                                                   risk and opportunity report     page 98

1
    cop: communication on progress, un global compact cop report

222 |   www.leoni.com




                  glossary

                  a alternative                  power engine with hybrid, electric or fuel-   e ebit                             earnings before interest and taxes
                        drive technologies       cell technology
                                                                                                  ebit margin                     ebit / sales
                        asset deal               purchase of all the economic goods of a
                                                 company
                                                                                                  economic value added (eva)      increase in enterprise value taking the cost
                                                                                                                                  of capital into consideration
                  c capital employed             non-interest bearing assets less
                                                 non-interest bearing liabilities
                                                                                                  emas                            eco-management and audit scheme;
                                                                                                                                  an eu system for auditing the environmen-
                        capital goods industry   branches of industry that make products to
                                                                                                                                  tal management of companies
                                                 manufacture others; for example the me-
                                                 chanical engineering and electro-technical
                                                                                                  emea                            europe, middle east and africa
                                                 industries


                        cash flow                balance of cash inflow and outflow; key          erp system                      enterprise ressource planning system
                                                 figure for assessing financing resources
                                                                                               f factoring                        sale of receivables
                        compliance               adherence to legal requirements and
                                                 corporate guidelines                             financial covenants             provisions included in a loan agreement

                        corporate governance     responsible business management
                                                                                                  forward exchange transactions hedging transactions to reduce the risk of
                                                                                                                                exchange-rate fluctuation
                        coverage                 regular monitoring of a company by
                                                 financial analysts
                                                                                                  free cash flow                  performance of operating cash flow taking
                                                                                                                                  capital expenditures into consideration
                  d d & o insurance              covers the cost of compensation claims
                                                 made against a business’s directors and key
                                                 managers (officers)                           g gearing                          ratio of net debt to equity


                        del quote                copper price quote                               globale trends                  future social developments
                                                 (deutsche elektrolyt-kupfer-notierung =
                                                 german electrolyte copper quote)                 green technology                environmentally compatible and
                                                                                                                                  sustainable technologies for generating
                        demographic change       change in the age structure of a society                                         renewable energy as well as for reducing
                                                                                                                                  energy and resource consumption
                        derivatives              financial instruments whose price or value
                                                 depends on the prices of other merchandise    h hedge accounting                 reporting of various financial instruments
                                                                                                                                  that are in a hedging relationship

                                                                                                  hybrid cable                    cable that combines differing individual
                                                                                                                                  cables (e.g. power and data cables)

                                                                                                                               | additional information     |   223

                                                                                                                                glossary




i   ievc                            illuminated electrical vehicle charging       s scope of consolidation   totality of the companies that belong to a
                                    cable (illumination indicates charge status                              group and are included in the consolidated
                                    for electric and hybrid vehicles)                                        financial statements


    impairment of                   write-downs such as amortisation of the          segment                 division
    non-current assets              godwill of a subsidiary whose business
                                    prospects have worsened                          she                     safety, health, environment

    impairment tests                review of the value of asset items
                                                                                     single source supply    sourcing from a single supplier

    interest rate swaps, collars    interest rate hedging instruments
                                                                                     solar heat              conversion of solar power into useable
                                                                                                             thermal energy
    internal control system (ics)   principles and procedures to ensure the
                                    efficiency of corporate governance, the          strand                  combination of a number of single wires
                                    reliability of accounting and adherence to
                                    pertinent legal requirements
                                                                                     swot                    strengths, weaknesses, opportunities,
                                                                                                             threats
j just-in-sequence delivery         delivery in the required sequence

                                                                                  u un global compact        the un global compact is a strategic policy
    just-in-time delivery           delivery in the required time                                            initiative for businesses that are committed
                                                                                                             to aligning their operations and strategies
m monte-carlo simulation            simulation method based on multiple trial                                with ten universally accepted principles in
                                    runs using random variables                                              the areas of human rights, labour, environ-
                                                                                                             ment and anti-corruption

n net financial liabilities         financial liabilities less cash and cash
                                                                                     urbanisation            increasing urban development
    (net financial debts)           equivalents

                                                                                  w wacc                     weighted average cost of capital
o ohsas                             occupational health- and safety assess-
                                    ment series
                                                                                     wiring systems          a vehicle’s network of electrical/electronic
r r&d                               research & development                                                   cables including components

                                                                                     working capital         net current assets (inventories plus trade
    restructuring expenses          spending on the reorganisation or closure                                receivables less trade liabilities)
                                    of a facility; especially on severance pay-
                                    ments


    return on sales                 ebit/sales


    roce                            return on capital employed

224 |   www.leoni.com




                  index of key words


                  a acquisitions 50, 75, 150                              d deferred taxes 136, 158, 164       i   income statement
                        additional paid-in capital 188                       disposals 159, 162, 171               – group 133
                        appropriation of profits 213, 214                    dividend 15, 41, 131                  – leoni ag 215
                        asset and capital breakdown 80                       dividend policy 76, 131               income taxes 152, 164
                        asset situation 71, 80, 112                                                                independent auditor‘s report 210
                        audit 36                                          e earnings per share 133, 153, 202       intangible assets 70, 77, 136, 172
                        auditor 36, 99                                       ebit                                  interest rate risk 193
                        auditor‘s professional fees 203                      – group 52                            internal control system 100
                        authorised capital 128, 188                          – wiring systems 60                   inventories 144, 170

                                                                             – wire & cable solutions 66           investor relations 42
                  b balance sheet date 140, 189                              electromobility 52, 84, 104
                        business by sector 54                                employees 85                      k key accounting and valuation methods 138
                        business policy 114                                  – group 70                            key dates leoni at a glance

                                                                             – wire & cable solutions 66
                  c capital expenditure                                      – wiring systems 60               l leasing 75, 145, 189
                        – group 70                                           environmental management 106          liabilities 135 ff
                        – wire & cable solutions 66                          equity 40, 71, 186                    liability risks 106
                        – wiring systems 100                                 equity ratio 71, 81                   liquidity 75
                        compensation report 118                              estimates 154                         litigation 190
                        competitive advantages 64, 103

                        competitors 12, 58                                f finance revenue and costs 164      m management board, compensation 118
                        compliance management system 98, 102                 financial liabilities 81, 176         management board, members 34
                        consolidated financial statements 131 ff             financial risks 108                   management board, shareholdings 37
                        consolidated income statement 133                    forecast 112                          management system 52
                        consolidated sales 47, 50, 71                        free cash flow 52, 70, 78             market risks 103
                        consolidated statement of cash flows 135                                                   markets 50
                        consolidated statement of changes in equity 137   g global trends 52                       multi-year overview 39
                        consolidated statement of comprehensive              goodwill 136, 146, 174
                        income 134
                                                                             green technology 97               n new accounting requirements 155
                        copper price 84
                                                                             group management report 47 ff         notes 138 ff
                        currency risks 109, 195

                        currency translation 140
                                                                          h hedge accounting 151, 200
                        current liabilities 80, 136, 177
                                                                             hedging activities 150
                        customer relationship 145, 172

                                                                                                   | additional information   |   225

                                                                                                    index of key words




o order book 62                                     s sales
   order receipts 69                                   – group 52

   other assets 170                                    – wire & cable solutions 66

   other comprehensive income 168                      – wiring systems 60

   other obligations 189                               sales by region 72

   other operating expenses 162                        scope of consolidation 159, 208

   other provisions 152                                segment reporting 153, 160

   overall risk 98                                     share 39

   overview                                            share capital 39, 188

   – group 70                                          shareholder structure 41

   – wire & cable solutions 63                         shareholders’ letter 4

   – wiring systems 57                                 shareholdings 36

                                                       shares in associated companies 136, 140

p pending claims 190                                   statement of cash flows 78, 135

   pension and other post-employment benefits 151      statement of financial position 136

   pension provisions 179                              – group 136

   performance                                         – leoni ag 215

   – group 114                                         statutory reserve 188

   – wire & cable solutions 66                         strategy 50

   – wiring systems 60                                 supervisory board, committees 13

   principal facilities 50                             supervisory board, compensation 127

   principles of consolidation 138                     supervisory board, members 17

   procurement 83                                      supervisory board, report 9

   property, plant and equipment 144                   supervisory board and management board 17

   provisions 178                                      supplementary report 112

   purchase order commitments 189                      supplier capital 84

                                                       swot analysis 111

r receivables 149, 168
   regions 54                                       t ten-year overview 218
   reports by division 57                              trade payables 177

   research & development                              transactions with related parties 204

   – projects 90

   – spending 90                                    u underlying conditions 53
   – targets 89

   risk and opportunity report 98

   risk management and financial derivatives 190

   risk management system 98

   risks related to raw material prices 196

226 |   www.leoni.com




                        forward-looking statements

                        this report contains forward-looking statements that are based
                        on management’s current assumptions and estimates concerning
                        future trends. such statements are subject to risk and uncertainty
                        that leoni cannot control or precisely assess. should imponderables
                        occur or assumptions on which these statements are based
                        prove to be incorrect, actual results could deviate considerably
                        from those described in these statements. leoni assumes no
                        obligation to update forward-looking statements to adjust them
                        to events following publication of this report.


                                                                                                                           annual report 2014
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  company information




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ››
                                                            annual report 2014
                                                                                                                  growth
                                                                                                                                            future


                                                                                                      potential



                                                                                                                                                     leoni – the quality connection.

                                                                                                                                                     the leoni group operates worldwide, providing wires, optical fibers,
                                                                                                                                                     cables and cable systems as well as related services for applications
                                                                                                                                                     in the automotive sector and other industries. the company employs
                                                                                                                                                     about 68,000 people in 31 countries. leoni develops and manufactures
                                                                                                                                                     technically sophisticated products for the motor vehicle industry –
                                                                                                                                                     ranging from the single-core cable through to the complete wiring
                                                                                 the quality connection                                              system with integrated electronics. the product range also encompasses
                                                                                                                                                     wires and strands as well as optical fibers, standardised cables, special,
                                                                                                                                                     hybrid and optical cables as well as completely assembled systems
                                                                                                                                                     for customers in different industrial markets. products specifically for
leoni ag   marienstrasse 7                                                                                                                           application in environmentally friendly technologies are meanwhile
           90402 nuremberg
                                                                                                                                                     gaining in significance. the company also benefits with its products and
           phone +49 (0)911-2023-0
                                        03. 2015 / en_250




                                                                                                                                                     services from the worldwide trends of globalisation, industrialisation &
           fax    +49 (0)911-2023-455
           e-mail info@leoni.com
                                                                                                                                                     automation, environmental awareness & shortage of resources, mobility,
           www.leoni.com                                                                                                                             urbanisation and demographic change.
