       mountain rose herbs




2015


greetings
we are proud to present our fourth annual mountain rose herbs
sustainability report, which highlights our achievements in
assessing the environmental aspects of our business practices.
this report also provides our customers the transparency they
expect. mountain rose herbs is a mission-based company whose
motto is people, plants and planet before profit. with this comes
a resolute commitment to ethical business practices and environ-
mental integrity. these values are the core of every business
decision we make.

since 1987, we have led our industry in sustainable operations,
and we have offered guidance and consultation to numerous
companies throughout the country. we take pride in being one
of the first businesses to tackle these issues with the develop-
ment of a zero waste policy, an alternative commuting program,
the creation of our own grassroots group called the mountain
rose river project, a paid time for community involvement
program, and becoming eugene’s first salmon-safe certified
company. in 2015, we installed a 100-panel, 25 kwh solar array
and a two-car electric vehicle charging station for employees.
we are also proud to be the largest corporate sponsor of several
nonprofit organizations including beyond toxics, cascadia
wildlands, mckenzie river trust, oregon wild and more!

with this being our fourth sustainability report, we are pleased
to have systems established for tracking information. the results
in this report show where we excel (such as waste diversion), as
well as the areas that need improvement (such as water conser-
vation practices). with the help of the sustainable food trade
association, we will continue to innovate and improve. we are
excited to share our progress with our customers, employees,
and community members.

sincerely,




shawn donnille
vice president/co-owner

table of contents
highlights & awards       04
products   05
energy usage   10
water usage 13

facility design 16

campus design 18

waste & recycling 19
employee benefits 21

employee volunteerism          24
mountain rose river project         25
herbal education     28
strategic philanthropy         29

2015 highlights
diverted 96.2% of company           hosted two free herbalism         decreased greenhouse gas
waste                               project events, helping to        emissions by 5.6 metric tons
                                    educate 1,100 people and          compared to 2014
offset 295.5 metric tons of         raising $1,400 for the united
greehouse gas emissions             plant savers                      completed a packaging evalua-
                                                                      tion of herb bags and labels to
collected 597 lbs of food and       sponsored 10 mountain rose        ensure we use the most sustain-
304 lbs of clothing during our      river projects, removing 12,956   able packaging option
annual employee-led food and        gallons of trash, clearing 10
clothing drive                      cubic yards of invasive plants,   completed salmon-safe
                                    and planting/mulching 377 trees   projects including a tree plant-
installed a 25 kwh solar array at   and native plants                 ing and rain garden installation
main facility




2015 awards
charities@work corporate excellence award

vice president/co-owner, shawn donnille, received the rachel carson award

american herbal products association industry leader award

american package design awards for herbal smoking blend & organic hydrosols




                                                                                          highlights & awards 04

                                                   we redesigned our organic vanilla bean packaging
                                                   to be a lightweight, easily recyclable paper box.



   certiﬁed organic processor through usda accredited oregon tilth

  rigorous quality control testing in our lab guarantees product integrity

banned synthetic fertilizers, pesticides, irradiation, and genetic engineering

achieved the highest possible performance levels from imo, a switzerland-
     based third-party fair for life verifier, for the third year in a row

  increased number of non-gmo project verified products from 4 to 19




                                                                                         products 05

sustainable products
in 2015, we started working with pennsylvania certified
organic and the forest grown program to verify sustainable
forest cultivation of american ginseng. mountain rose
herbs is the first and only supplier to offer this special
organic ginseng root and leaf!

partnering with the united plant savers, we hope to expand
this program to include other wild medicinal herbal crops in
the future.

we also received the first shipment of certified organic, fair
trade tea tree essential oil from the foothills of mount
kenya in africa.




 we expanded our selection
 of non-gmo project verified products:
                      aloe vera gel
                      beet root powder
                      broccoli sprouting seed
                      castille soap
                      citric acid
                      barley grass powder
                      cocoa butter
                      cocoa butter wafers
                      coconut oil, refined
                      coconut oil, unrefined
                      flax seed
                      hemp seed oil
                      papaya leaf
                      sesame oil
                      sunflower oil
                      wheat germ oil
                      wheatgrass powder
                      wheatgrass sprouting seed
                      hemp seed, hulled
                                                                 products 06


                     in 2015, we pulled data regarding method of cultivation:

                         100%     of our bulk herbs and spices are sustainably sourced:


                                           82.3%           certified organic


                                         15.7%     ethically wild-harvested


                                        2.0%    cultivated without chemicals


            100%     of our seaweeds, sprouting seeds, and seasoning blends are certified organic


                                 98.7%      of our tea blends are certified organic




                                                                  sustainable packaging
                                                                  we are committed to using recycled materials in
                                                                  the packaging of our products. christine, our
                                                                  product manager, is constantly looking for the
        responsible sourcing                                      most sustainable packaging options with the
                                                                  highest post-consumer content, recycled, and
        we work closely with the organic farmers and
                                                                  recyclable materials available.
        wild-harvesters that grow our herbs and spices.
        this partnership extends to the suppliers of our
                                                                  in 2015, we conducted a preliminary packaging
        glass containers, metal tins, tea pots, lip balm
                                                                  evaluation of our plastic herb bags and labels.
        tubes, and other ingredients we offer.
                                                                  every year, we analyze a selection of our current
       in 2015, members of the procurement and                    product packaging. through research, our goal is
       purchasing team visited many of our farmers                to use the most eco-friendly packaging available
       and wild-harvesters both domestically and                  that delivers products safely to customers who
       abroad. we traveled to egypt, mexico, peru,                can then reuse or recycle the packaging.
       washington, and virginia. we offset carbon
       emissions associated with flights through
products 05
       carbonfund.org.
                                                                                                                      products 08

shipped by hand in the u.s.
our customer orders are handpicked with care daily. thanks to
our warehouse and shipping crew, we continue to upgrade and
innovate our shipping materials and order fulfillment practices
to ensure customers receive their eco-friendly goodies safely
and in a timely manner.



other highlights
we collect and reuse or donate packing peanuts, block styrofoam, bubble wrap, and filler paper.

our packing materials and shipping labels are made with recycled plastic and paper content.

our customers have the option of declining brochures and other printed materials in their orders.

we replaced conventional bubble wrap with geami’s greenwrap made from 100% recyclable,

biodegradable, and compostable materials.




                                                                                                    products 09

energy usage
we are proud to have converted to 100% renewable energy by investing in solar power and offsetting our
remaining electrical usage to renewable energy sources, credits, and development projects through
carbonfund.org and our local utility’s greenpower program.


solar array
we recognize that the majority of our carbon emissions come from operating lights and electronics in our
facility. in 2015, we constructed a solar array and electrical vehicle charging station. we installed a
100-panel, 25kwh system that will produce an estimated 32,604 kwh of power in the first year. over the
expected 35-year lifespan of the system, it is anticipated to offset 470 tons of co2, which is equivalent to
the conservation of 10,980 trees or 48,170 gallons of gasoline!




                                                                                                           energy usage 10

energy usage
since 2013, our facilities manager, mike, has used the epa energy star portfolio manager to help us track
energy, water, and greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions.

we calculated our energy usage in electricity, natural gas, and fuels such as gasoline and biodiesel for
company-owned vehicles and employee vehicles used for business trips. from this, we estimated the ghg
emissions associated with operations.



energy source                   unit         amount           co2 conversion factor     mtco2 emissions     % emissions
electricity                     kwh          640,738                   0.00037               239.4             80%


natural gas                     therms       9,154                     0.00950               48.6               16%


fuel (biodiesel + gasoline)     gallons      1,253                     0.00530               11.5               4%

total emissions                                                                             299.5


                              there was only a nominal change in energy use broken down by source.


                                                                2014       2015
                                                electricity     80%         80%


                                               natural gas      17%         16%


                                                       fuel     3%          4%




                                                                                                            energy usage 11

energy usage

                                ghg emissions decreased by 5.6 mtco2

                                               305.1         299.5




                                               2014          2015
                                         total ghg emissions (mtco2e)


                        that is the equivalent amount of carbon sequestered by
                                   5.3 acres of us forests in one year!




other highlights
we offset 295.5 metric tons of carbon emissions with carbonfund.org in 2015!
we tracked computers and monitors that were left on overnight and held departments accountable.
we used the cascadian courier collective bike service to distribute our posters for the free herbalism project,
reducing our carbon footprint.




                                                                                                          energy usage 12

water usage
to determine water usage in production and operations, we gathered all of our water bills for 2015 and
calculated usage for our main facility.


600,000
450,000
300,000
150,000

                            2014              2015
while water consumption increased over the past few years, we will institute water conservation practices
 including low-flow toilets, flushless urinals, and a thorough landscaping irrigation assessment in 2016.




water usage comparison (gallons)
                                       2014           2014          2015           2015
              potable water           376,000        98.6%        547,000         98.9%

              drinking water          5,460          1.4%         5,920           1.1%

              total                   381,460                     552,920




                                                                                                     water usage 13

climate change presents an undeniable challenge for food security and access to
fresh water as the human population grows. mountain rose herbs recognizes the
power businesses have to impact water quality and availability for people, plants,
and the planet. we are committed to organic farming practices that keep toxins off
our land and out of our waterways. we also support organizations and government
agencies working to protect our groundwater supply and riparian corridors.
through our fierce dedication to sustainable practices, we promise to conserve
water in our production facility and landscaping in partnership with salmon-safe.




                                                                                     water usage 14

facility design
mountain rose herbs operates in three build-
ings with a total of 117,938 sq. ft. in eugene,
oregon. our main facility was built to leed
(leadership in energy & environmental design)
standards before the certification existed.

in 2015, we upgraded to touchless paper towel
dispensers and donated the gently used
dispensers to eugene’s habitat for humanity       new sustainable booth
restore.
                                                  in 2015, working with a local builder, we
                                                  designed and constructed a new marketing
other highlights:                                 booth using locally sourced sustainable
                                                  building materials. these include:
we use recycled or reclaimed materials
whenever possible for construction and            repurposed redwood slabs into shelving,
repair projects, in-line with our zero waste      counters, and signs
policy.
                                                  bamboo plywood for countertop and sign

we use 22 motion sensors for lights, and          frames
spent light bulbs are recycled.                   stools made from repurposed cedar logs
                                                  utilized l.e.d. low voltage lighting fixtures
we use energy star rated appliances in the
                                                  purchased fabric from sunbrella, a zero waste
office and production.
                                                  company
we use mountain rose herbs lemon essential oil    burlap backdrop, redwood fencing, and
and grapefruit seed extract to make an environ-
                                                  corrugated panels made from recycled materials
mentally-friendly surface cleaner.
                                                  printed graphics on natural cotton material
                                                  structure and storage crates constructed
                                                  with fsc certified cedar and plywood,
                                                  low-emitting materials (no added urea-formaldehyde),
                                                  and low voc stains and finishes




                                                                                            facility design 16


“mountain rose herbs is the yardstick for
how success should be measured.‘people
and planet before profit.’ your practices
are an inspiration to all businesses.”
angie r. marzano, director of business development & re:think, bring

campus design
since receiving our salmon-safe certification in
                                                   february
                                                   as part of the mountain rose river
2013, we created a five-year action plan to        project, with the assistance of our land-
conserve water, restore riparian habitat, limit    scaper and friends of trees staff, we
fertilizer use, and improve our stormwater         planted 19 native trees around the
treatment system.                                  retention pond and employee lunch area.
throughout 2015, we hosted numerous tours of
our sustainable campus and trout-friendly and
salmon-safe landscaping for business owners,
community members, educators, advocates, and
professional landscapers.


                                                          july
                                                   employees removed 10 cubic yards of
                                                   invasive blackberry and teasel.




                                                   august
                                                   we installed 10 educational landscaping
                                                   signs including: one sign describing the
                                                   function and value of rain gardens, two
                                                   signs promoting oregon tilth’s accredited
                                                   organic land care program, and seven
                                                   tree identification signs with common and
                                                   botanical names.




                                                    september
                                                    we completed our first rain garden.
                                                    native species planted in the garden
                                                    include white alder, mock orange, red
                                                    flowering currant, shiny leafed spirea,
                                                    and creeping oregon grape.




                                                                                               campus design 18

waste & recycling
our first priority is to make sure we only use what
we need, and that’s why we adopted our zero
waste policy in 2007! what’s left is reused,
reclaimed, recycled, or composted. consistent
employee education helps us achieve our zero
waste goals. we have staff trainings, instructional
signage, and we are always looking for creative new
ways to divert waste from the landfill. new in 2015,
we began collecting nitrile gloves and hair/beard
nets to recycle through terracycle’s zero waste
boxes.

on november 27, 2015, we promoted buy nothing
day! instead of playing into commercialism on black
friday, we encouraged our staff and customers to
spend time with family, volunteer, and enjoy nature.

in 2015, we underwent an assessment and main-
tained our re:think business certification from
bring.




                                                       waste & recycling 19

waste & recycling
                                                                         recycling


                                                                         compost


                                                                         waste




    2015                                                 pounds                      percentage
    recycling                                            234,251                       69.8 %
    paper & special materials                            104,004                        31.0%
    community partnerships                               110,993                        33.1%
    comingled recycling                                  16,200                         4.8%
    repurposed materials                                 3,054                          0.9%

    compost                                              88,492                         26.4%
    wood and scrap herbs

    waste                                                12,837                         3.8%
    landfill                                             12,279                         3.7%
    hazardous waste                                      558                            0.1%

    total                                                335,580                        100%


                                         diversion rate
                                                                                 goal




                2012            2013            2014              2015        2020
                89.2%          92.8%           93.6%             96.2%        100%


    our goal is to become zero waste certified by 2016 and achieve 100% waste diversion by 2020!


                                                                                               waste & recycling 20

employee benefits                                    earthshare
mountain rose herbs takes every measure to           mountain rose herbs is an earthshare oregon
ensure a welcoming, safe, and enjoyable work         business partner offering employees an easy way to
environment for employees by providing               contribute to 70+ environmental nonprofits. through
competitive benefits.                                workplace giving, employees make tax-deductable
                                                     contributions directly from their paychecks. in 2015,
  medical, dental, and vision coverage               35 employees participated in earthshare oregon and
  term life coverage                                 pledged $4,328!

  supplemental insurance by aflac
  paid public holidays
  401k plan with matching funds from mountain rose   charities@work
  herbs                                              in 2015, we were honored in new york city with the
                                                     charities@work corporate excellence award. this is
  on-site herbal education courses                   the top award given annually to one company for
  tuition reimbursement program                      overall excellence in employee engagement and
                                                     corporate social responsibility. companies are
  up to 40% off employee purchases
                                                     selected based on excellence in workplace giving
  personal finance education                         campaigns, employee engagement, and overall
  former employees who worked with us for at least   leadership involvement in all facets of social and
                                                     corporate citizenship.
  six months and left in good standing receive a
  lifetime 10% discount




                                                                                           employee benefits 21

                                              safety & ergonomics
                                              employee safety and satisfaction is paramount
                                              at mountain rose herbs. this includes ergo-
                                              nomic work stations and machines. in 2015,
mountain rose herbs’ green team
                                              we acquired an emulsifier, adjustable work
is an employee-led committee that
                                              tables, a hot knife, and a cream dispenser to
promotes environmentally sound and
                                              reduce repetitive motion injuries and unneces-
socially conscious operating practices such
                                              sary muscle strain.
as reducing waste, conserving energy and
water, encouraging use of alternative
                                              our safety manager, rick, began sharing
transportation, and informing and motivat-
                                              information every wednesday about different
ing co-workers about workplace giving and
                                              wellness related topics with staff. rick also
volunteer opportunities.
                                              achieved ergonomic assessor certification from
                                              saif and began installation of sit/stand
in 2015, mountain rose herbs employees
                                              adjustable workstations for employees.
founded a hiking club, book club, fantasy
football league, and belly dancing class.




                                                                                      employee benefits 22

carpool policy & incentive                              business commute challenge
mountain rose herbs offers one of the nation's most     in an effort to reduce co2 emissions and elevate
comprehensive commuting programs, paying                healthy living through movement, mountain rose
substantial cash incentives to all employees who        herbs employees participated in the local 2015
carpool with fellow employees, ride the bus, bicycle,   business commute challenge and came in 4th
or walk to work.                                        place in our metro area! we had 47 employees
                                                        carpool, walk, bus, or cycle to work during a rainy
we pay staff members who carpool and ride the bus
                                                        week in may. we logged 133 trips in just seven
$0.15 per mile and $0.25 per mile for biking and
                                                        days! in total, all participating businesses saved
walking. every year, we award the employee who
                                                        92,548 miles of single occupancy cars on the road
logs the most miles in each category an additional
                                                        and 96,254 lbs of co2 emissions. as a group, we
$250. employees have access to a covered and
                                                        burned 131,441 kcals.
locked bike garage, indoor lockers, showers, and a
bicycle repair kit. in 2015, mountain rose herbs
incentivized alternative modes of transportation and
paid our employees over $9,500!




                                                                                              employee benefits 23

employee volunteerism
we encourage employees to give back to our community. through
the paid time for community involvement program, employees
are paid 24 hours every year to volunteer with a nonprofit or local
organization of their choice.

in 2015, mountain rose employees volunteered 660 hours!




                                                                      employee volunteerism 24

             mountain rose river project




the mountain rose river project is a grassroots action campaign coordinated and funded entirely by our company.
 each year, employees manage restoration projects through our paid time for community involvement program.
 we also partner with numerous state, federal, and nonprofit agencies focusing on protecting riparian ecosystems,
                                          stream health, and fish habitat.

                                                                                                        river project 25

      2015 mountain rose
      river project stats:

                    restoration
        10          projects led
                    or sposored



                    community
      556           volunteers
                    engaged




     1,585          hours
                    logged




                    gallons of
    12,956          trash
                    removed




                    cubic yards

        10          of invasive
                    plants
                    removed



                    trees and

      377           native plants
                    planted/
                    mulched




other highlights:
for the second year, we adopted two
native seed plots in friends of buford
park’s native plant nursery in eugene,
including a plot of yarrow and one of
trillium.

in 2015, we participated in the great
willamette river clean-up alongside
almost 400 community volunteers!



                                         river project 26


herbal education
mountain rose herbs hosts the free herbalism project
each year. this series of free lectures for the community
features renowned herbalists from around the county. not
only are the lectures free to the public, we also serve free
organic tea and feature live music. all funds raised from
merchandise sales at the event are donated to a free clinic
or nonprofit.

in 2015, the free herbalism project helped to educate
1,100 people and raise $1,400 for the united plant savers.




       other highlights:
       we created free recipe books to distribute at herbal conferences, tradeshows,
       local events, and workshops.
       we have an ongoing partnership with the herb fairies online children’s course.
       we celebrated organically grown in oregon week in september.




                                                                                        herbal education 28

strategic philanthropy
charitable giving
supporting our community through financial contributions,
in-kind donations, and volunteer hours is a core part of our
company culture. we work directly with local and national
nonprofit organizations through charitable giving, event
sponsorships, matching gifts, conservation work, and
plant-related projects.




in 2015, we donated over $109,000 in cash sponsorships and
nearly $17,000 of in-kind support to nonprofits and free
clinics across the u.s.

                                other highlights
                                we donated 597 lbs of food (more than doubling last year’s
                                record) to food for lane county and 304 lbs of clothes (including
                                an entire 55 gallon drum of socks) to occupy medical during the
                                annual employee-led food and clothing drive.

                                we contributed $5,000 in matching funds to cascadia wildlands,
                                mckenzie river trust, oregon wild, and western environmental
                                law center.

                                we supported the american herbal products association’s osha
                                sustainability study with a $2,000 matching gift.

                                we adopted trillium (an at-risk healing herb) through united
                                plant savers’ program.

                                we joined the organic seed alliance as a supporting business
                                member.




                                                                                        strategic philanthropy 29

                                            “mountain rose herbs is our biggest business
                                            supporter, and they look out for us and follow
                                            our campaigns every year. those contributions
                                            have really helped us increase our capacity to
                                            take unconventional approaches to challenging
                                            bad environmental policies. we’ve gained
                                            ever-increasing confidence with the support of
                                            mountain rose herbs. beyond toxics is now a
                                            major player in changing environmental protec-
nonprofit spotlight                         tion policy in oregon!”
                                            – lisa arkin, executive director, beyond toxics
beyond toxics
beyond toxics is an organization that
works to guarantee environmental
protections and health for all communi-
ties and residents. they expose root
causes of toxic pollution and help
oregon communities find effective,
lasting solutions.

in 2015, we formulated the organic
pollinator tea as a tribute to our native
pacific northwest pollinators. mountain
rose herbs donated 5% of the annual
sales from this special blend to beyond
toxics and their save oregon’s bees
project.

                              thank you
     mountain rose herbs is committed to sustainable business practices,
  organic agriculture, social equality, and inspiring other businesses to put
people and planet before profit. we have staff currently sitting on the board
  of directors or serving on committees for these organizations: american
 herbal products association, cascadia wildlands, greenlane sustainable
business network, provender alliance, and the willamette valley sustainable
foods alliance. we encourage anyone with an interest in herbal products or
                the natural food industry to check them out!

      thank you to the extraordinary staff at mountain rose herbs, our
  vendors, and our customers who have helped make us an herbs, health,
                    and harmony company since 1987.

 for more information about mountain rose herbs’ sustainability programs
       visit www.mountainroseherbs.com or contact alyssa lawless,
     director of sustainability, sustainability@mountainroseherbs.com.
