       mountain rose herbs




2016


greetings
we are proud to present our fifth annual mountain rose herbs
sustainability report highlighting our assessment of the environ-
mentally and socially conscious aspects of our business practices.
this report also provides our customers the transparency they
expect. mountain rose herbs is a mission-based company whose
motto is people, plants, and planet before profit. with this, comes
a resolute commitment to ethical business practices and environ-
mental integrity. these values are the core of every business
decision we make.

since 1987, we have led our industry in sustainable operations
and offered guidance and consultation to numerous companies
throughout the country. we take pride in being one of the first
businesses to tackle these issues by developing a zero waste
policy, an alternative commuting program, the creation of our
own grassroots group called the mountain rose river project,
and a program where employees get paid for volunteering in the
community. we are proud to be the largest corporate sponsor of
several nonprofits including beyond toxics, cascadia wildlands,
mckenzie river trust, oregon wild, and more. in 2016, we
became the first company in oregon to earn a zero waste certifi-
cation at its highest ranking—platinum—diverting 94% of our
waste. we also opened our first brick and mortar store, which uses
reclaimed furniture and sustainably harvested wood.

our sustainability report not only helps us measure and monitor
our operations but also allows us time to pause, reflect, and look
to the future. we live in a rapidly changing world—our farmers
face challenges due to climate change, and we plan to be there
for them. with the help of the sustainable food trade associa-
tion, we will continue to innovate and advocate for the things dear
to us. we are excited to share our progress with our customers,
employees, and community members.

sincerely,




shawn donnille
vice president/co-owner

table of contents
highlights & awards    04
products   05
energy usage   10
water usage 13

facility design 15

campus design 17

waste & recycling 19
employee benefits 21

employee volunteerism       24
mountain rose river project      25
herbal education  27
charitable giving 29

2016 highlights
achieved platinum zero         completed salmon-safe           matched employee contribu-
waste facility certification   projects including a retention tions to earthshare oregon
                               pond renovation                 for the first year—$14,483
diverted 94% of company                                        total
waste                          sponsored 8 mountain rose
                               river projects, removing 813 opened the mountain rose
collected 249 lbs of food      gallons of trash, clearing 67   herbs mercantile using
and 275 lbs of clothing        cubic yards of invasive plants, reclaimed furniture
during our annual employ-      and planting 142 trees and
ee-led food and clothing       native plants                   offset 306.2 metric tons of
drive                                                          greenhouse gas emissions




                                   2016 awards
          rivers to ridges excellence in community partnership award
                   mount pisgah arboretum business of the year




                                                                             highlights & awards 04

                    we offer high-quality
               organic and sustainable products.


              certiﬁed organic processor/handler through usda accredited oregon tilth
              rigorous quality control testing in our lab guarantees product integrity
              banned synthetic fertilizers, pesticides, irradiation, and genetic engineering
              achieved the highest performance levels for the fourth year in a row from
              imo fair for life, a switzerland-based third party fair trade certifier




products 05

      our 2016 product certification & cultivation overview
herbs and spices                                  essential oils
including seaweeds, sprouting seeds, and resins   certified organic:                               72.8%
certified organic:                        83.9%   fair trade:                                       5.2%
cultivated without chemicals:              0.7%
wildharvested:                            15.3%   hydrosols
fair trade:                                6.3%   certified organic:                                100%
non-gmo project verified:                  1.4%
                                                  bulk ingredients
seasoning blends                                  carrier oils, salts, clays, butters, etc.
certified organic:                         100%   certified organic:                               53.8%
                                                  organic ingredient:                               1.2%
teas                                              fair trade:                                       7.6%
certified organic:                        98.8%   non-gmo project verified:                        14.1%
fair trade:                               20.2%
contains fair trade ingredient(s):         9.5%   herbal capsules
                                                  certified organic:                               88.2%
herbal extracts                                   cultivated without chemicals:                     5.8%
certified organic:                        60.2%   wildharvested:                                    5.8%




                                                  sustainable products
                                                  in partnership with nonprofit united plant savers, mountain
                                                  rose herbs is proud to offer the first pco verified forest
                                                  grown american ginseng root, leaves, and whole plant
                                                  extract grown in their native ecosystem—the appalachian
                                                  mountains. we continue to support united plant savers’
                                                  efforts protecting at risk and endangered plant species.
                                                  they provide education about the benefits of sustainable
                                                  wildcrafting and lead cultivation projects of these precious
                                                  botanicals.

                                                  in 2016, we established cultivation projects for american
                                                  ginseng and black cohosh.




                                                                                                  products 06

                         plants, people, and planet over profit:
                   revolutionizing fair trade in india
 mountain rose herbs is helping small, organic farms in india comply with strict fair trade requirements through our
 revolutionary fair for life project. by funding the certification process and paying fair prices, we are able to reinvest the
 premiums generated by this project to improve the living conditions, livelihoods, and wellbeing of these agricultural
 communities. guaranteeing that farm workers have rights and livable wages is crucial for our future as producers and
 consumers. we give thanks to the many skilled hands that work to provide our food and herbal remedies.


                                                                “while it’s critical to ensure our products meet fair
                                                                trade standards, we also wanted to continue to
                                                                support the small family farmers who have grown
                                                                quality organic herbs for us over the years. rather
                                                                than abandon our existing farmers, we decided to
                                                                invest in fair trade certification.” - jennifer gerrity,
                                                                executive director of operations at mountain rose
                                                                herbs




more than 60 of our small family farms in india are now
fair for life certified through the mountain rose herbs
fair for life project and imo fair for life! project impacts
include:

 women workers on our farms receive equal pay to their
 male counterparts.

 farm workers experience employee benefits compara-
 ble to us standards.

 herb growers in india are practicing organic and sustain-
 able farming methods.

 mountain rose herbs has rebuilt workers’ homes,                                                                          -
 provided school uniforms and books to an orphanage,
 repaired infrastructure, and renovated a school kitchen.

responsible sourcing
we work closely with the organic farmers and
wildharvesters that grow our herbs and spices.
these partnerships extend to the suppliers of
our essential oils, soaps, candles, carrier oils,   sustainable packaging
butters, and other ingredients we offer.            we are committed to using recycled materials in
                                                    the packaging of our products. we also strive to
in 2016, members of the procurement and             provide our customers with packaging that is
purchasing team visited many of our farmers         either easily recycled/composted at home or can
and wildharvesters both domestically and            be reused to minimize its environmental impact.
abroad. we traveled to oregon, washington,          christine, our product manager, is constantly seek-
minnesota, vermont, new york, north carolina,       ing the most sustainable packaging options with
maine, germany, turkey, india, and the balkans.     the highest post-consumer content, recycled, and
we offset carbon emissions associated with all      recyclable materials available.
that travel through carbonfund.org projects
that focus on energy efficiency, reforestation,     in 2016, we redesigned the packaging of our
forest preservation, and renewable energy.          essential oil kits using recyclable and reusable tins
                                                    with recycled stock information cards, recycled
                                                    stock labels, and reusable amber glass bottles.




                                                                                                        products 08

   shipped by hand in the u.s.
   our customer orders are handpicked with care daily. thanks to our warehouse and shipping crew,
   we continue to upgrade our shipping materials and order fulfillment practices to ensure customers
   receive their eco-friendly goodies safely and in a timely manner.

   in 2016, we replaced conventional packing tape dispensers with water adhesive tape dispensers.
   the new water activated tape is recyclable and can be left on the box.


   other highlights
   we collect and reuse or donate packing peanuts, block styrofoam, bubble wrap, and filler paper.
   our packing materials and boxes are made with recycled content.
   we replaced conventional bubble wrap with a green alternative made from 100% recyclable,
   biodegradable, and compostable materials.
   our customers have the option of declining brochures and other printed materials in their orders.




products 09

                we care about
    reducing our impact on the environment.
energy usage
we are proud to have converted to 100% renewable energy by investing in solar power and
offsetting our remaining electrical usage through development projects with carbonfund.org
and our local utility’s greenpower program.

we recognize that the majority of our energy usage comes from operating lights and electron-
ics in our facility. in 2015, we constructed a 100 panel, 25kwh solar array and electrical vehicle
charging station. throughout 2016, our solar array generated 38 mwh of power for our facility!



  other highlights
  we offset 306.2 metric tons of carbon emissions in 2016 and celebrated 10 years of offsetting carbon
  emissions with carbonfund.org.
  we updated our main warehouse with led lights on motion sensors.
  we installed led lights at the mountain rose herbs mercantile.
  we used the cascadian courier collective bike service to distribute our posters for the free herbalism
  project, reducing our carbon footprint.




                                                                                                energy usage 10

   energy usage
   since 2013, our facilities manager, mike, has used the epa energy star portfolio manager to help us track energy,
   water, and greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions.

   we calculated our energy usage in electricity, natural gas, and fuels such as gasoline and biodiesel for company-owned
   vehicles and employee vehicles used for business trips. from this, we estimated the ghg emissions associated with
   operations. there was only a nominal change in energy use broken down by source.



    energy source                 unit        amount       co2 conversion factor      mtco2 emissions        % emissions
    electricity                   kwh         601,579             0.00037                 224.7                  76%


    natural gas                   therms       11,187             0.00950                   59.5                 20%


    fuel (biodiesel + gasoline)   gallons       2,116             0.00530                  11.3                   4%

    total emissions                                                                       299.5


                                                          2014     2015     2016
                                            electricity   80%      80%      76%


                                            natural gas   17%      16%      20%


                                                  fuel     3%        4%      4%



                            in 2016, we saw reduced electricity usage, which can be
                  attributed to our photovoltaic solar panels and energy conservation efforts.




energy usage 11

energy usage
in 2016, we continued to have positive sales growth while managing to reduce our
ghg emissions by 4 mtco2.

saving four mtco2 from entering the atmosphere is the equivalent of conserving 450
gallons of gasoline or not driving 9,587 miles in an average car.



                                   305.1         299.5
                                                                295.5



                                   2014          2015           2016
                                      total ghg emissions (mtco2e)


     in 2016, we found a local company to encapsulate our supplements, drastically reducing our carbon
       footprint. we had been shipping our organic herbal powders roughly 1,700 miles roundtrip to be
        encapsulated; now they only travel 45 miles roundtrip. this will save us freight travel of approxi-
        mately 34,000 miles every year! that’s the equivalent of 56 mtco2 emissions released into the
                atmosphere or the energy it takes to power 8.3 homes in the u.s. for one year.




                                                                                                        energy usage 12

         water usage
         to determine water usage in production and operations, we gathered all of our water bills for 2016 and
         calculated usage for our main facility.


                              800,000




                              600,000
                    gallons




                                                                                                    potable water

                              400,000                                                               irrigation

                                                                                                    drinking water

                              200,000




                                0
                                                 2014           2015             2016


          our water consumption increased in 2015 so we instituted water conservation practices. we replaced our
           1.6 gallon toilets with 1.2 gallon low-flow toilets, installed flushless urinals, and conducted a thorough
                     landscaping irrigation assessment. the results surpassed our wildest expectations!



                                        water usage comparison (gallons)
                                                         2014          2015             2016
                                    potable water       379,000        420,000      333,000

                                    drinking water      5,460          5,920        6,800

                                    irrigation          185,000        336,000      269,000

                                    total               569,460        761,920      608,800




  in 2016, we conserved over 150,000 gallons of water!



water usage 13

climate change
climate change presents an undeniable challenge for food
security and access to fresh water as the human population
grows. mountain rose herbs recognizes the power businesses
have to impact water quality and availability for people, plants,
and the planet. we are committed to organic farming practices
that keep toxins off our land and out of our waterways. we also
support organizations and government agencies working to
protect our groundwater supply and riparian corridors. through
our fierce dedication to sustainable practices, we promise to
conserve water in our production facility and landscaping in
partnership with salmon-safe.




                                                                    water usage 14

   facility design
   mountain rose herbs operates in six buildings
   with a total of 125,621 sq. ft. in eugene, oregon.
   our main facility was built to leed (leadership in
   energy & environmental design) standards
   before the certification existed.

   in 2016, we opened the mountain rose herbs
   mercantile in eugene, oregon. we found our
   new home in the 88-year-old historic farmers’
   union cooperative building. using reclaimed
   and repurposed antique furniture and metal
   piping gives the space an authentic victorian-era
   apothecary feel with a steam punk flair. the
   shelves are sustainably produced poplar, grown
   and milled by a family-run farm in oregon. the
   mercantile showcases mountain rose herbs’
   organic products and allows customers to ask
   our knowledgeable and friendly staff questions,
   sample products in person, and buy directly.
   after every purchase, if customers decline a
   shopping bag, they receive a wooden nickel,
   representing a five cent donation, to drop in the
   collection box of one of several local nonprofit
   organizations.




   other highlights
   we use recycled or reclaimed materials
   whenever possible for construction and repair
   projects, aligned with our zero waste policy.

   we use energy star-rated appliances in the
   office and warehouse.

   we leased our first electric vehicle in 2016.

   we began using perasan-a, a peracetic acid
   based sanitizer, instead of hydrogen peroxide
   in 2016.




facility design 15                                      facility design 16


campus design
since receiving our salmon-safe certiﬁcation
in 2013, we created a ﬁve-year action plan to
conserve water, restore riparian habitat, limit
fertilizer use, and improve our stormwater
treatment system.

throughout 2016, we worked closely with
our landscaper and the long tom watershed
council to maintain our beautiful campus.

 february
             as part of the mountain rose river project,
              with the assistance of our landscaper and
              friends of trees staff, we planted native
             oregon ash along the bioswale to filter our
                          stormwater runoff.




   march    we began our “rewilding” project, planting
              native species around the southern and
            western edge of the retention pond, apply-
             ing mycorrhizal product to roots prior to
            planting to help the roots absorb nutrients.




    april     the irrigation system was assessed and
             turned on to help establish new plants in
                           the rain garden.




september   after consultation with the bureau of land
              management, the city of eugene, and
              engineers, we excavated the retention
                pond, removing 110 cubic yards of
            sediment. we will continue to fill the banks
            of the pond with native grasses and plants
                       in the coming years.




  october
             we continued the “rewilding” project with
            weeding and blackberry remediation. we also
             pruned the apple and pear trees. the areas
            not planted in orchard grass are managed by
                weed-eating once or twice per year.




                                             campus design 18

   waste & recycling                                                    zero waste certification
   at mountain rose herbs, our unwavering commitment                    in 2016, mountain rose herbs became the first
   to environmental stewardship dictates how we think                   company in oregon to gain a zero waste facility
   about our waste management plan. we strive to cut all                certification. we submitted a scorecard, peer
   waste by rethinking and redesigning our operational                  review, and an on-site audit with a third party and
   procedures to create a more dynamic approach to                      qualified at the highest level—platinum!
   product design, resource recovery, and recycling. this
   path helps sustain our bond with the natural world,                  zero waste facility certification recognizes
   creates jobs, and saves money.                                       businesses, organizations, and communities that
                                                                        divert more than 90 percent of waste from landfills,
   our first priority is to make sure we only use what we               incinerators, and the environment, in accordance
   need, and that’s why we adopted our zero waste policy                with internationally accepted, peer-reviewed
   in 2007. what’s left is reused, reclaimed, recycled, or              standards. the facility certification is managed by
   composted. consistent employee education helps us                    green business certification inc. (gbci), the
   achieve our zero waste goals. we have staff trainings,               premier organization independently recognizing
   instructional signage, and we are always looking for                 excellence in green business industry performance
   creative new ways to divert waste from the landfill.                 and practice globally.




                                                                                               other highlights
                  we toured our local commercial composting facility, where we sent over 52,000 pounds of compost in 2016.

                            we replaced conventional towel dispensers with automatic paper towel dispensers to save paper.

                            we gathered nitrile gloves and hair/beard nets to recycle through terracycle’s zero waste boxes.
waste & recycling 19                         we collected 468 lbs of recyclables in our march electronic waste recycling drive.

waste & recycling
                                                                    recycling


                                                                    compost


                                                                    waste




       2016                                            pounds                percentage
       recycling                                       145,855                  69.3 %
       paper & special materials                       103,228                  49.1%
       community partnerships                           12,523                   5.9%
       comingled recycling                              29,000                  13.8%
       repurposed materials                              1,104                   .5%
       compost                                          52,085                  24.8%
       wood and scrap herbs
       waste                                            12,427                   5.9%
       landfill                                         12,005                   5.7%
       hazardous waste                                     422                   0.2%

       total                                           210,367                   100%

                                          diversion rate




                   2012            2013        2014          2015     2016
                   89.2%        92.8%          93.6%        96.2%    94.1%




   in 2016, we diverted 94% of our waste from the landfill!

                                                                                   waste & recycling 20

we support our employees and our community.
      employee benefits                                   earthshare oregon
                                                          mountain rose herbs is an earthshare oregon business
      mountain rose herbs takes every measure to ensure   partner offering employees an easy way to contribute to
      a welcoming, safe, and enjoyable work environment   100+ environmental nonprofits. through workplace giving,
      for employees by providing competitive benefits.    employees make tax-deductable contributions directly from
                                                          their paychecks. in 2016, 43 employees participated in earth-
       medical, dental, and vision coverage               share oregon.
       term life coverage
                                                          in 2016, we began to match employee contributions, which
       supplemental insurance by aflac                    motivated 18 employees to sign up for the first time. in total,
       paid public holidays                               employees and mountain rose herbs contributed $14,483!

       401k plan with matching funds
       on-site herbal education courses
                                                          safety & ergonomics
                                                          employee safety and satisfaction is paramount at mountain
       tuition reimbursement program                      rose herbs. this includes ergonomic workstations and
       up to 40% off employee purchases                   machines. our safety manager, rick, holds an ergonomic
                                                          assessor certification from saif and regularly evaluates
       on-site personal finance/budgeting education
                                                          employee workstations. rick shares information on wellness
       24 hours of paid volunteer time each year          related topics with staff every wednesday. in 2016, rick
       former employees who worked with us for at least   assessed air quality issues in several departments. as a
       six months and left in good standing receive a     result, he purchased a portable air filter for one of our new
       lifetime 10% discount                              buildings and a fume collector for our warehouse.




employee benefits 21

                     the mountain rose herbs
                     greenteam
mountain rose herbs’ green team is an employee-led
committee that promotes environmentally sound and
socially conscious operating practices such as reducing
waste, conserving energy and water, encouraging the
use of alternative transportation, and informing and
motivating co-workers about workplace giving and
volunteer opportunities.


other highlights
we worked with a university of oregon graduate student to evaluate our wellness program.
we began holding sustainability trainings for new hires to further engage and energize employees.
we designated a comfort room for nursing mothers and those dealing with trauma.




                                                                                          employee benefits 22

              alternative commute program
              mountain rose herbs offers one of the nation's most
              comprehensive commuting programs, paying substan-
              tial cash incentives to all employees who carpool with
              fellow employees, ride the bus, bicycle, or walk to
              work.

              we pay staff members who carpool and ride the bus
              $0.15 per mile and for those who bike and walk, we
              pay $0.25 per mile. every year, we award the employee
              who logs the most miles in each category an additional
              $250. employees have access to a covered and locked
              bike garage, indoor lockers, showers, and a bicycle
              repair kit. in 2015, mountain rose herbs incentivized
              alternative modes of transportation and paid our
              employees over $9,500!

              in an effort to reduce co2 emissions and elevate
              healthy living through movement, mountain rose
              herbs employees participated in the local business
              commute challenge and came in fifth among 50 other
              businesses in our metro area. we had 51 employees
              carpool, walk, bus, or cycle to work and logged 145
              trips in just seven days in rainy may!




employee benefits 23

employee volunteerism
we encourage employees to give back to our community.
through the paid time for community involvement
program, employees are paid 24 hours every year to
volunteer with a nonprofit or local organization of their
choice.

“mountain rose herbs is setting such a great example in
our community of taking care of the natural resources
that sustain us all! thank you so much for supporting the
friends’ native plant nursery and habitat restoration
throughout the mt. pisgah area. your commitment is
inspiring!” – valerie rogers, development director,
friends of buford park


in 2016, mountain rose employees volunteered 769 hours!




                                                            employee volunteerism 24

                   mountain rose river project
                   the mountain rose river project is a grassroots action campaign coordinated
                   and funded entirely by our company. each year, employees manage restoration
                   projects through our paid time for community involvement program. we also
                   partner with numerous state, federal, and nonprofit agencies focusing on
                   protecting riparian ecosystems, stream health, and fish habitat.




river project 25

      2016 mountain rose
      river project stats:

                    restoration
        8           projects led
                    or sposored



                    lbs of native

       35           plant seed
                    harvested by
                    hand


                    community
      490           volunteers
                    engaged



     2,174          hours
                    logged


                    gallons of
       813          trash
                    removed


                    cubic yards

       67           of invasive
                    plants
                    removed


                    trees and

       142          native plants
                    planted/
                    mulched




other highlights
we participated in the great willamette
clean up along the river with more than
350 community volunteers.


we harvested 30 lbs. of iris seed and 5
lbs. of bleeding heart seed at the
friends’ native plant nursery.




                                          river project 26

guido masé shares his knowledge about "aromatics, bitters, and tonics: a simple system to support well-being" in october 2016.


           in 2016, the free herbalism project helped to educate over
             500 people and raise $1,100 for the united plant savers.

herbal education
mountain rose herbs hosts the free herbalism project each year.
this series of free lectures for the community features renowned
herbalists from around the country. not only are the lectures open to
the public, we also serve free organic tea and provide live music. all
funds raised from merchandise sales at the event are donated to a
free clinic or nonprofit.

other highlights
we partnered with the herb fairies to support their online children’s course.
we celebrated organically grown in oregon week in september.
we hosted tea producers from eugene’s sister city of kakegawa, japan.


                                                                                herbal education 28

             charitable giving
             supporting our community through financial contributions, in-kind
             donations, and volunteer hours is a core part of our company culture.
             we work directly with local and national nonprofit organizations
             through charitable giving, event sponsorships, matching gifts,
             conservation work, and plant-related projects.




             in 2016, we donated more than $189,000 in cash sponsorships and
             more than $35,700 of in-kind support to nonprofits, free clinics,
                            and herbal schools across the u.s.

             other highlights
             we adopted three native seed plots in the friends of buford
             park’s native plant nursery, including plots of yarrow, nettle, and
             trillium.

             we donated 249 lbs. of food to food for lane county and 275 lbs.
             of clothes to occupy medical and st. vincent de paul during the
             annual employee-led food and clothing drive.

             we adopted trillium (an at-risk herb) through united plant savers’
             program.

             we conducted a special membership drive for beyond toxics, the
             center for biological diversity, and oregon wild.

             we supported the american herbal products association’s osha
             sustainability study with a $2,000 gift.




charitable giving 29

nonprofit spotlight
western environmental law center
the western environmental law center uses the power of the law to safeguard the wildlife,
wildlands, and communities of the american west. as a nonprofit, public-interest law firm, the
center provides pro bono legal services to the conservation community.

in august 2016, we offered a dollar-for-dollar matching gift challenge to the center’s supporters
with the goal of increasing funding to protect and restore wild salmon and the rivers they call home.
the matching gift challenge was wildly successful, generating much-needed funds to defend the
health of the west’s salmon and rivers. as eugene, oregon’s first salmon-safe certified company, we
believe that funding legal advocacy to save salmon is a very worthy investment.

“when we go to court to fight for wild salmon, it’s inspiring to know that we have progressive
businesses like mountain rose herbs on our side. without the support of mountain rose herbs and
other funders, we would not be able to provide free legal services to our clients, who are often grass-
roots conservation groups. by enabling us to continue offering free legal representation to groups
both large and small, mountain rose herbs is investing in a cleaner, healthier future for the west’s
salmon and rivers.”– pete frost, western environmental law center staff attorney

                             thank you
    mountain rose herbs is committed to sustainable business practices,
  organic agriculture, social equality, and inspiring other businesses to put
 people, plants, and planet before profit. we have staff currently sitting on
  the board of directors or serving on committees for these organizations:
   american herbal products association, cascadia wildlands, greenlane
  sustainable business network, provender alliance, native plant society,
 oregon wild, united plant savers, and the willamette valley sustainable
foods alliance. we encourage anyone with an interest in herbal products or
     the natural food industry to check out these wonderful nonprofits!

 thank you to the extraordinary staff at mountain rose herbs, our vendors,
and our customers who have helped make us an herbs, health, and harmony
                           company since 1987.

for more information about mountain rose herbs’ sustainability programs
 visit www.mountainroseherbs.com or contact alyssa lawless, director of
          sustainability, sustainability@mountainroseherbs.com.

                      printed on 100% recycled paper
