sustainable growth

   through sustained innovation




sustainability report 2011

green products              2

green operations            6

healthy & safe employees   10

community involvement      15

gri content index          20

> l e t t e r f r o m d a n i e l c . u s t i a n , c h a i r m a n , p r e s i d e n t a n d c h i e f e x e c u t i v e o f f i c e r
    n av i s ta r i n t e r n at i o n a l c o r p o r at i o n


navistar has a tradition of innovation that goes all the way back to 1831 and
cyrus mccormick’s invention of the reaper. today, our innovation is largely
focused on providing sustainable transportation solutions—products and services
that drive economic, social and environmental benefits over the long haul.
         our commitment to sustainability is consistent                        closer to the customer, while better utilizing
         with our three-pillar strategy of great products,                     our production capacity and reducing logistics
         profitable growth and competitive costs. our                          costs. we constantly look for ways of reducing
         first pillar, great products, reflects our innovation                 energy usage, waste and greenhouse gases,
         in technologies that enable our customers to                          while also supporting improved health and
         succeed while also benefiting the environment.                        safety for our employees. our leadership
         we pioneered the first smokeless diesel engine                        in these areas recently resulted in navistar
         in north america, and were the first north                            being placed in the top 50 companies of the
         american truck manufacturer to go to market                           newsweek green rankings.
         with a diesel hybrid solution—as well as the first
         major global truck manufacturer to bring an all-                      these approaches are not only the right thing
         electric solution to the commercial truck market.                     to do; they also make us a stronger company.
         our next generation clean engine solution–in-                         so do the positive steps we take in our
         cylinder technology plus (ict+)–positions the                         communities, including support for technical
         company to meet future greenhouse gas (ghg)                           education that will enable future generations of
         rules in various global markets. no other truck
         manufacturer brings as many carbon-reducing
         technologies to market as navistar.

         our pursuit of profitable growth, our second
         pillar, leverages our investments in sustainable
         technologies in new ways. this includes our
         commitment to natural gas, which has emerged
         as the most realistic alternative fuel option for
         the trucking industry. we’ve established
         a strategic partnership with clean energy                             innovators. these steps all position navistar for
         fuels corp. in order to provide customers                             sustained innovation that will deliver continued
         with a sustainable, commercially viable                               leadership and growth over the long term.
         solution for adding natural gas-powered
         trucks to their fleets. fuel purchase incentives                      i invite you to read more about navistar’s
         available through this alliance will neutralize                       commitment to innovative sustainability in
         the cost difference between diesel and                                people, products and operations, both in the
         natural gas vehicles, making it easier for                            following pages and at www.navistar.com.
         customers to invest in this low-emitting,
         cost-effective technology.
                                                                               sincerely,
         enabling our product innovation and growth
         is our third pillar, competitive costs, which
         is supported by our sustainable way of
         doing business. our commitment to lean
         manufacturing enables us to build trucks


                                                                                                                                            1

    navistar customers who buy a natural-gas-fueled truck
    can realize a fuel savings of 60 cents for every diesel gallon equivalent of
    natural gas.


                                                                                   the international ® workstar®
                                                                                   compressed natural gas answers
                                                                                   the demand for a high performance,
                                                                                   environmentally sustainable
                                                                                   work truck.




                                      pure power technologies’
                                      blythewood, s.c. plant manufactures
                                      high-pressure fuel systems and
                                      precision-controlled egr valves
                                      used in maxxforce ® engines.


                                                                                   thanks to navistar’s alliance
                                                                                   with clean energy fuels corp., customers
                                                                                   will have access to a u.s. fueling supply
                                                                                   network that stretches from coast to coast
                                                                                   and border to border.




2

  green
  products

                                    products: saving energy, reducing emissions
                                    navistar has a history of product innovation that goes back
                                    180 years. today, we are focused on providing transportation
                                    solutions that allow our customers to operate cost-effectively
                                    while also delivering benefits to the environment. no other
                                    truck manufacturer brings as many carbon-reducing
                                    technologies to market as navistar. in addition, our products
                                    are in compliance with the world’s strictest standards for the
                                    chemical components, including the reach standards put
                                    forth by the eu. we also have a robust product stewardship
                                    program that conducts scientific research into product safety
                                    and environmental health for the benefit of the entire industry.
                                    our products build on the inherent advantages of diesel
                                    technology, which offers greenhouse gas emissions that are
                                    typically 20 to 30 percent lower than those of comparable
                                    gasoline engines. we were the first north american truck
                                    manufacturer to go to market with a diesel hybrid solution,
                                    and the first of the major global truck manufacturers to bring
                                    an all-electric solution to market.
                                    making natural gas a practical option
                                    natural gas has clearly emerged as the most realistic alternative fuel option for the
                                    trucking industry. thanks to recent advances in extraction technology, experts now
                                    estimate that the u.s. has at least a 100-year supply of this clean-burning fuel.
the international® loadstar®
                                    in february 2012, we announced the formation of an alliance with clean energy
and other trucks built by
                                    fuels corp. that directly addresses the major barriers to usage of natural gas
navistar use significant advances
                                    vehicles, including higher upfront purchase costs and lack of access to a refueling
in clean engine technology to
                                    infrastructure:
optimize combustion by precisely
controlling air and fuel mixing.      ustomers who do business within this alliance will find that their cost to move
                                    >c
                                     to natural gas can be totally mitigated.
                                      hen a customer purchases an international® truck that’s powered by natural
                                    >w
                                     gas and is willing to purchase 1,000 gallons per truck per month, clean energy
                                     will offset the monthly lease cost of the truck so it is comparable to that of an
                                     equivalent diesel vehicle.
                                      lso, that customer will realize a fuel savings of 60 cents for every diesel gallon
                                    >a
                                     equivalent of natural gas.
                                    > in addition, the alliance will provide customers with a coast-to-coast fueling
                                      supply network that will have 170 liquid natural gas stations in place by the end
                                      of 2013.

                                                                                                                            3

      green
      products

                                     offering advanced, reliable emissions solutions
                                     since the advent of federal regulation by the environmental protection agency
                                     (epa), emissions from diesel engines have been greatly reduced:
                                       missions of nitrogen oxides (nox) have been reduced by more than
                                     >e
                                      90 percent.
                                     > emissions of particulate matter (pm) have been cut by 99 percent.
                                       nd emissions of carbon monoxide (co) and hydrocarbons (hc) have
                                     >a
                                      been reduced to near-zero levels.
                                     navistar has been in the forefront of these reductions:
                                       e were the first north american engine manufacturer to release a smokeless
                                     >w
                                      diesel engine.
                                       e worked with the epa to advocate reducing the sulfur content of diesel fuel
                                     >w
    navistar was the first
                                      to 15 ppm in order to reduce emissions of nox and pm.
    north american truck               avistar then became the first truck and engine manufacturer certified by
                                     >n
    manufacturer to go to market      the epa as meeting 2007 standards for pm and hc—six years ahead of
    with a diesel hybrid solution.    requirements.
                                       ur next-generation clean engine solution—in-cylinder technology plus
                                     >o
                                      (ict+)—will address 2010 u.s. environmental protection agency (epa)
                                      regulations, as well as euro v and euro vi emissions standards.
                                     our engine families are certified to various emissions standards currently in force
                                     around the world. in addition, our engine components business, pure power
                                     technologies, is doing an increasing amount of business outside the u.s. as
                                     customers take advantage of the emissions benefits afforded by its high-pressure
                                     fuel systems and precision-controlled egr valves.

                                     providing industry-leading fuel efficiency
                                     navistar also has long been an industry leader in fuel economy, which not only
                                     saves energy but also reduces greenhouse gases (ghgs):
                                     > in 2011, navistar commended the epa and the national highway traffic safety
                                       administration for developing one single, national standard for ghg and fuel
                                       efficiency for commercial vehicles.
                                       he company also continued to partner with the u.s. department of energy
                                     >t
                                      to engineer new fuel efficiency and emissions-reducing technologies.
                                       he goal of this partnership is to develop a “supertruck” that provides a
                                     >t
                                      50 percent improvement in fuel efficiency by improving truck and trailer
    our next-generation               aerodynamics, combustion efficiency, waste heat recovery, hybridization,
    clean engine solution—            idle reduction and reduced rolling resistance tires.
    in-cylinder technology plus
    (ict+)—will address epa 2010
    regulations and euro v and vi
    emissions standards.


4

                                      our heavy-duty vehicles continue to be among the most fuel-efficient products on
                                      the roads:
                                        ur best-selling heavy-duty vehicle, the international® prostar®, was designed
                                      >o
                                       to be the most aerodynamic and fuel-efficient class 8 truck ever.
                                        ther leading aerodynamic vehicles include the international® prostar®+, which
                                      >o
                                       also enjoys a considerable weight advantage over the competition, and the
                                       classic-styled international® lonestar®.
                                      third-party testing confirms the advantages our vehicles offer in the area of
                                      fluid economy, a measure that combines consumption of diesel fuel plus diesel
                                      exhaust fluid.

                                      advancing hybrid and electric solutions
                                      navistar was the first north american truck manufacturer to go to market with a
                                      diesel hybrid solution, and the first school bus manufacturer to get into the market
                                      with diesel electric hybrids. to this date, navistar offers the only plug-in hybrid
                                      school bus on the market.
                                      navistar is also the first of the major global truck manufacturers to bring an
                                      all-electric solution to the commercial truck market:
                                        nlike other electric trucks that are reconfigured models of fossil-fuel trucks, the
                                      >u
                                       estar®, a class 2c-3 all-electric truck, has been purpose-built for electric power,
                                       having been engineered aerodynamically to reduce drag.
                                        he estar is the first medium-duty commercial vehicle to receive u.s. epa
                                      >t
                                       certification as a clean fuel fleet vehicle, and the first to receive california air
                                       resources board (carb) certification as a zero-emissions vehicle.
                                      > each estar can reduce ghgs by as much as 10 tons annually.
                                      navistar also contributes to reduced emissions by offering many anti-idle
                                      solutions, including:
                                      > auxiliary power units, cooling systems and thermal recovery systems.
navistar’s energy-saving vehicles
                                        full line of diesel exhaust emission retrofit products, certified by epa and
                                      >a
include (top to bottom) the highly
                                       carb, that help customers achieve their state and local environmental goals
aerodynamic international®
                                       for reducing pm and nox.
lonestar® and international®
prostar®+ and the electric-powered    epa- and carb-verified technologies sold by the company’s dealers can reduce
estar®. no other truck manufacturer   the pm output of engines by up to 90 percent.
brings as many carbon-reducing
technologies to market as navistar.




                                                                                                                               5

    by finding a vendor who would purchase its used fluid hose, the
    escobedo, nuevo leon, mexico truck assembly plant now avoids sending six
    tons of waste to the landfill each month, saving nearly $6,500 per year.


                                                                               the former west pullman
                                                                               works site in chicago, remediated
                                                                               by navistar, now hosts the largest
                                                                               urban solar plant in the u.s., which
                                                                               generates enough electricity to power
                                                                               1,500 homes.




                                                                               the escobedo plant educates
                                                                               young people about recycling, providing
                                                                               a local elementary school with separate
                                                                               containers for plastic, aluminum cans
                                                                               and general waste.


    each year, the
    garland, texas truck
    assembly plant reuses
    and recycles 4,624
    tons of wood materials
    like these racks
    (shown with
    suspension axles),
    leading to cost
    avoidance of
    $149,124.

6

  green
  operations

                                   operations: reducing environmental impacts
                                   navistar employees constantly find new ways to reduce
                                   facilities’ use of energy, trim greenhouse gas emissions and
                                   lower the production of waste. these improvements have
                                   yielded more than $100 million in savings and have been
                                   recognized by more than 115 awards for environmental
                                   and energy excellence.
                                   new corporate headquarters brings sustainable benefits
                                   a major operating initiative during 2011 was the establishment of a new navistar
                                   world headquarters through the reclamation of a long-mothballed 1.3-million-
                                   square-foot complex in the suburbs of chicago, using sustainable methods:
                                     he nine-building lisle, ill. campus utilizes demolished materials, as well as
                                   >t
                                    recycled carpet, ceiling and furniture materials.
                                     reen construction materials were used, including cri green label plus
                                   >g
                                    carpeting and other materials low in volatile organic compounds, including
                                    paints, adhesives, sealants, furniture and coatings.
                                     ore than 90 percent of demolition waste was recycled.
                                   >m
                                     verhauled boilers yield 20 percent improvements in energy efficiency.
                                   >o
navistar’s new corporate
headquarters in lisle, ill.,         utdoor airflow sensors were installed at all air handling units, meeting the
                                   >o
reclaimed a long-mothballed         latest ashrae standards.
1.3-million-square-foot complex.     olar load-reducing window shades and energy-efficient lighting were
                                   >s
the facility was constructed        introduced throughout the campus.
using demolished, recycled and
                                     avistar also worked with the wildlife habitat council to incorporate a number
                                   >n
green materials, and utilizes
                                    of environmentally responsible practices for the grounds. these include reliance
environmentally responsible
                                    on retention ponds for landscape irrigation, and landscaping that uses native
practices that reduce operating
                                    plants to reduce the need for added water and maintenance.
expenses by $560,000 annually.
                                   these and other sustainable improvements are reducing operating expenses by
                                   $560,000 a year.
ghg emissions
                                   progress on energy and ghg goals
                                   navistar has set ambitious goals for energy use and greenhouse gas (ghg)
                                   reduction, including an absolute 20 percent reduction in ghg emissions by
                                   2013, using 2008 as a baseline year. in addition, the company has established
                                   a goal for all facilities of reducing non-production electric load to 35 percent of
                                   production load by the year 2013. this represents significant improvement from
                                   the past load ratio, which was at 60 percent in 2008 and had been reduced to 50
                                   percent at the end of 2010.
                                   the company is making significant progress toward these goals: in 2011,
                                   the company’s ghg emissions were 17 percent less than in the 2008 baseline
                                   year. its energy use declined by nearly 16 percent in the same timeframe.

                                                                                                                         7

      green
      operations

                                                   this progress is spurred by $3 million in corporate funding for employee-driven
                                                   energy projects at company facilities. improvements are driven by the ingenuity of
                                                   navistar employees, who continually seek new opportunities for efficiency:
                                                     he springfield, ohio truck assembly plant took advantage of state incentives
                                                   >t
    energy consumption                              and utility company rebates to re-lamp its campus with t-5 fluorescent lamps,
                                                    reducing energy use by more than 50 percent and saving $285,000 annually.
                                                     y installing a programmable controller for a cooling tower, the canoas, brazil
                                                   >b
                                                    plant reduced refrigeration system usage to an “only when necessary” basis,
                                                    reducing energy use by 59 percent and costs by $2,820 a year.
                                                     limination of leaks in the air compressor system at the santo amaro, brazil
                                                   >e
                                                    plant saved $74,502 in energy costs per year.
                                                     fter taking advantage of a one-time tax deduction, pure power technologies’
                                                   >a
                                                    blythedale, s.c. plant was able to secure annual energy savings of $26,125
                                                    with a payback period of less than one-tenth of a year.
    direct energy consumption reflects
    non-renewable energy sources consumed            y effectively managing electrical demand control for its furnaces, the
                                                   >b
    at all navistar manufacturing plants,
    parts distribution centers, offices,            waukesha, wis. foundry has saved $1.5 million since 2007.
    used truck centers, company-owned
                                                     he garland, texas truck assembly plant replaced 1,587 metal halide lighting
                                                   >t
    dealership locations and fuel consumed
    by leased vehicles.                             fixtures with 1,348 t5 fixtures that use 50 percent less energy, eliminate 1,600
    indirect energy consumption reflects            tons of ghgs, and save $200,000 per year.
    non-renewable energy sources consumed
    at upstream power plants to generate the         he garland plant also recently used a kaizen approach to identify 14 new,
                                                   >t
    electricity consumed by navistar facilities.    low-cost opportunities with the potential to achieve an additional $223,000 in
                                                    energy savings, with a combined payback of less than four months.
    toxics release inventory (tri)                 since 2008, navistar has been certified by the u.s. environmental protection
    releases at u.s. facilities
                                                   agency (epa) as a smartway® shipper for its commitment to fuel efficiency.
                                                   and recently, the u.s. department of energy welcomed navistar to the better
                                                   buildings, better plants program, recognizing the company’s commitment to
                                                   reducing its energy intensity by 25 percent over 10 years.

                                                   reducing waste through improved processes
                                                   navistar facilities are also working hard to reduce the creation of waste, including
                                                   both hazardous and non-hazardous waste. in 2010, the company set a goal of
                                                   increasing recycling from 33 percent of waste to 55 percent by 2015. in 2011,
    the toxics release inventory (tri)
                                                   the company reached a recycling rate of 38 percent, a five percent improvement
    is a publicly available us epa database        over 2010. improved recycling and reduced landfill waste have saved navistar
    that contains information on toxic             nearly $163,000 in 2011 alone. navistar’s vision is to eliminate entirely the direct
    chemical releases and other waste
    management activities reported annually        shipment of waste to landfills. company employees have made major strides:
    by certain covered industry groups. tri
    releases is the amount of chemicals and
                                                     y replacing grinding machines with more efficient models, the canoas, brazil
                                                   >b
    chemical categories reportable under            engine plant saved 980 liters of coolant for a cost reduction of $6,000.
    the emergency planning & community
    right-to-know act (epcra) released or            ver the past several years, the waukesha, wis., foundry has found multiple
                                                   >o
    recycled off-site from the company’s us         ways to donate sand to projects like the i-94 off-ramp at kenosha, in the
    manufacturing locations.
                                                    process saving $17,000 in reduced waste costs.



8

waste disposal methods – 2011                 imply instituting an effective employee recycling program for materials such
                                            >s
                                             as cardboard, plastic film, cans and bottles enabled the huntsville, ala., engine
                                             plants to save $21,000 annually in landfill costs.
                                              y installing a coalescer to remove oil contamination from coolant, the melrose
                                            >b
                                             park, ill., engine plant saved $32,000 in the annual cost of the chemicals
                                             previously used for this purpose, plus another $30,000 by extending the life of
                                             the coolant from three years to five.
                                            the company’s parts unit takes advantage of many opportunities to recycle
                                            shipping materials, including more than 3.3 million pounds of wood pallets,
                                            two million pounds of scrap metal, and 900,000 pounds of cardboard. using
non-hazardous waste generation
                                            returnable containers for parts shipments annually saves $392,000 in containers
                                            and pallets and $380,000 in transportation costs due to improved space
                                            utilization. navistar also has an extensive parts remanufacturing program, which
                                            remanufactures 50 million pounds of parts materials per year.

                                            new and renovated dealerships use green innovations
                                            navistar actively encourages the efforts of its international and ic bus dealerships
                                            to utilize green practices that are also good business:
                                            > in recent years, dealerships have added such innovations as geothermal
                                              heating systems, shop ceiling fans, t5 and t8 fluorescent lighting, and
non-hazardous waste generation is             maximized use of natural sunlight.
the amount of non-hazardous waste
sent off-site for recycling or disposal       ne new facility that makes use of such features is leonard bus sales’ new ic
                                            >o
from the company’s manufacturing,
engineering and parts distribution
                                             bus dealership in saratoga springs, n.y., which also uses low-energy annealed
operations. due to their large volumes,      glass for more sunlight in the winter and reduced heat buildup in the summer.
certain non-hazardous waste streams
such as sand, slag and baghouse dust          ew high solar reflectance index (sri) white-membrane roofs, used by the
                                            >n
from the company’s foundries, and metals     renovated diamond international in russellville, ark., effectively reflect sunlight
from a some of the assembly plants are
not included in this chart.
                                             and reduce heat island effects.
                                            navistar was also the first company in the industry to equip its u.s. and canadian
                                            dealers with new technology designed to detect leaks of refrigerant r134a and to
hazardous waste generation
                                            recover, recharge and recycle the substance.

                                            remediating brownfield sites for new uses
                                            navistar works closely and voluntarily with local communities to conduct
                                            brownfield remediations of closed or sold sites. in southeastern chicago,
                                            remediation has been completed on all 176 acres of the wisconsin steel works
                                            site formerly owned by navistar. additional “no further remediation” (nfr) letters
                                            from environmental authorities are expected for two parcels, and remediation of
                                            the last remaining parcel will be completed by 2012. in addition, 131 acres of the
hazardous waste generation is the           site are being redeveloped into a new liquid asphalt plant that is being built in an
amount of hazardous waste sent off-site     environmentally sustainable manner and is bringing jobs back to the community.
for recycling, disposal or treatment from
the company’s manufacturing, engineering    in 2011, navistar received praise from the city of chicago for its now-completed
and part distribution operations. wastes
are considered hazardous based on the
                                            remediation of the former west pullman works site, also in chicago. the tract is
regulatory requirements applicable to       now the site of the largest urban solar plant in the united states, which generates
each operation.                             enough clean electricity to power up to 1,500 homes.
                                                                                                                                   9

     navistar provides support for real meals on 18 wheels,
     an easy-to-read, common-sense guide to healthy meals and other healthy
     choices for truckers.



                                                                              the company’s new corporate
                                                                              headquarters includes an expanded on-site
                                                                              medical unit and two fitness centers.




                                                                              navistar’s health and wellness
                                                                              programs extend to the new cafeteria
                                                                              at its world headquarters, which
                                                                              features a number of healthy choices
                                                                              on a daily basis.




                                  employees at the joliet, ill.,
                                  parts distribution center stretch
                                  before their shift.




10

  healthy
  & safe
  employees
                                     employees: improving health, safety and security
                                     navistar’s commitment to employee health, wellness
                                     and security is a major contributor to our success and
                                     sustainability as a company. despite upcoming government
                                     changes that are expected to add to company health care
                                     costs, our commitment to best practices helps navistar hold
                                     down costs for both employees and the company. more
                                     important, a safe, healthy and secure lifestyle increases
                                     employee productivity and improves employees’ quality of life.
                                     more broadly, the company’s scientific work on health,
                                     safety and productivity has contributed to the sustainability
                                     of diesel technology, demonstrating the advantages of new
                                     technology diesel exhaust—which takes advantage of
                                     today’s low-sulfur diesel fuel to reduce emissions—and the
                                     sustainability benefits of advanced exhaust gas recirculation
                                     as an emissions control strategy.
                                     a systematic approach to wellness
                                     vital lives, navistar’s award-winning, comprehensive approach to health, safety
                                     and productivity management, helps employees reduce health and safety
                                     risks, while promoting evidence-based care and encouraging smart healthcare
                                     spending. overall, 73% of employees reported participating in one or more vital
                                     lives programs during the past 12 months.
                                     navistar’s wellness initiatives are part of an overall healthcare strategy that
                                     has had a positive impact on the bottom line. thanks to its innovative health
                                     improvement strategies, navistar has been able to maintain flat or reduced health
                                     care costs per employee each year since 2004, despite annual national health
                                     care inflation in the range of 6 to 12 percent, yielding nearly $2.7 million in annual
                                     cost avoidance savings.
                                     navistar’s “1-2-3” approach to wellness programs emphasizes:
                                       rimary prevention, which seeks to prevent smoking, obesity and other
                                     >p
                                      risk factors;
navistar has won many awards           econdary prevention, which manages or reduces risk factors in order to
                                     >s
for its employee health and safety    prevent disease;
programs. above, the 1st annual        nd tertiary prevention, which aims to manage disease in order to prevent
                                     >a
rising stars of safety award is       catastrophic consequences.
presented to the health and safety
                                     primary prevention starts with offering each employee an annual, confidential
coordinator of navistar’s truck
                                     health risk assessment, which identifies ways to address behaviors that increase
assembly plant in escobedo,
                                     the risk of current and potential health issues:
nuevo león, mexico.

                                                                                                                              11

       healthy
       & safe
       employees
                                     > in 2011, 3,819 employees and 1,226 spouses took advantage of this
                                       customized, innovative tool.
                                       articipating employees become eligible for reduced healthcare premiums
                                     >p
                                      and increased employer contributions to medical spending accounts.
                                       mployee coaching programs helped 53% of participants lose weight—with
                                     >e
                                      an average loss of 8.3 pounds—while 45% of participants who enrolled in a
                                      smoking cessation program were able to quit smoking.
                                       ltimately, employees require fewer prescriptions, doctor visits and
                                     >u
                                      hospitalizations as a result of this preventive care.

                                     innovative programs for improved health
                                     employees also take part in a number of voluntary, incentive-based wellness
                                     programs, including spring tune-up, a six-week nutrition program, and trucking
                                     across north america (tana), a 13-week competition logging employees’ weekly
                                     exercise miles. tana celebrated its 18th year with a 33 percent participation rate
                                     among eligible employees:
                                     > since starting out with seven employee teams in 1994, tana has expanded
                                        to 500 employee teams at 43 locations, engaging a total of 4,210 employees.
                                     > in 2011, 54% of sedentary participants shifted to a more active lifestyle, and 98%
                                        of participants reported either improvement or maintenance of their health status.
                                     > this improvement in regular exercise also contributed to estimated yearly
                                        health care cost savings of $477,300.
                                     > navistar south america has now launched its own walking group program, in
                                        which employee teams target a distance of 2,320 km—the distance between our
     navistar’s south america team      são paulo and canoas, brazil facilities.
     launched the walking group
                                     in addition, navistar’s alere disease management program, which aids employees
     program, in which employee
                                     in clinical improvements, led to an average reduction in medical spending of $415
     teams aim to walk 2,320 km—
                                     per year per active participant, for a total one-year savings of $1.5 million. total
     the distance between the
                                     roi for this program has been 3.73 to 1.
     são paulo and canoas,
     brazil facilities.              navistar continues to innovate in health and wellness programs:
                                     > the company’s new corporate headquarters in lisle, illinois, includes an
                                        expanded on-site medical unit, two fitness centers and four walkstations, which
                                        are slow-moving treadmills with built-in desks for employees to use throughout
                                        the work day.
                                     > the headquarters’ expanded foodservice options include a broad-based
                                        cafeteria menu that features a number of healthy choices on a daily basis.
                                     > recognizing the health challenges faced by many truck drivers, navistar also
                                        provides support for real meals on 18 wheels, an easy-to-read, common-sense
                                        guide to healthy choices for truckers, including tips for meal planning and
                                        nutrition on the road. navistar also co-sponsors the healthy trucking awards
                                        of the healthy trucking association of america, which recognize the drivers
                                        and fleets who are making health and wellness a priority.

12

                                              the company’s wellness programs have been recognized with many awards.
                                              in 2011, these included the engage2011 award from johnson & johnson,
                                              corporate wellness magazine’s leadership award, and the gold well workplace
                                              award from the wellness councils of america (welcoa). in all, navistar has now
                                              won welcoa’s platinum award once, and its gold award 13 times.
incident frequency rate (ifr) and
lost time case rate (ltcr)                    as navistar expands around the world, the company has established an
                                              international health care council to address the needs of international employees.
                                              the council works to combine elements of public health care systems, onsite and
                                              free-standing corporate clinics, and insured care in a way that provides optimal
                                              care and cost for employees at each navistar facility. the global health care team
                                              also provides ongoing evaluation of the quality of health services, coordination
                                              of emergency medical response teams, and medical evacuation if needed for
                                              appropriate care.

incident frequency rate is the number
                                              sharing insights on workplace health and safety
of osha recordable injuries or illnesses
                                              navistar actively supports workplace health and safety around the world, sharing
per 100 full-time employees (200,000
hours). osha recordable cases are             scientific analysis of the company’s medical claims data. during the past year,
those work-related incidents that require     navistar staff published more than 30 papers and presentations on health,
medical treatment beyond first aid, lost
time or job reassignment.                     safety and productivity issues. one important contribution has been challenging
lost time case rate is the number of
                                              inaccurate health exposure variables in other diesel studies being reviewed by
workrelated injuries or illness where         intergovernmental bodies. in addition, navistar staff members:
people lose time off the job per 100
full-time employees.                          > actively contribute to research initiatives;
                                              > publish papers in peer-reviewed professional journals;
decline in combined disability
costs and controllable absenteeism            > serve on the editorial boards of a number of major publications, including as
                                                 editor-in-chief of the journal of health and productivity;
                                              > and teach environmental and occupational health at such institutions of higher
                                                 learning as northwestern university, indiana university, the university of
                                                 cincinnati and the university of illinois.
                                              navistar personnel also serve on advisory committees for the national academies
                                              of sciences, the national institute for occupational safety and health, the national
                                              advisory committee for occupational safety and health, the american college of
                                              occupational and environmental medicine, the institute for health and productivity
combined disability costs include total
costs for all operations (manufacturing,      management and many other groups. during 2011, the company received more
engineering, office sales) for short-term     than a half million dollars in grants from government and private industry for its
(less than one year) and long-term (more
than one year) disability.
                                              analysis of company databases on health and productivity issues.
controllable absenteeism is often referred
to as unscheduled absenteeism and
                                              facilities reach new safety milestones
includes absences for sickness, disability    navistar is an industry leader in safety, with aggressive programs designed to
of less than 30 days, occupational injuries
and unexplained no-shows. it is expressed     build a strong safety culture and effective safety processes. company facilities
as the percent of scheduled days missed.      continued to achieve major new safety milestones, including:
the other form of absence not shown
here, uncontrollable absenteeism, includes    > the company’s vehicle assembly plants in garland, texas and escobedo, nuevo
scheduled or contractual absences such           leon, mexico, as well as its huntsville, ala., engine plant, reached five million
as vacation, jury duty, union business,
military leave, disability over 30 days and      hours without a lost-time case—that is, without an employee losing time off the
fmla leave.                                      job due to work-related injuries or illness.
                                                                                                                                     13

       healthy
       & safe
       employees
                                                he escobedo plant reached one million hours without a recordable injury.
                                              >t
                                               this is the third time the plant has achieved this goal in the last three years.
                                                he truck specialty center in springfield, ohio completed a year without a
                                              >t
                                               recordable injury, as did the v-engine plant in huntsville, ala.
                                                avistar’s parts facilities continue to post remarkable safety records, including
                                              >n
                                               one parts distribution center that has gone 10 years without a lost time case.
                                              from 1999 to 2011, navistar employees reduced their on-the-job injury rate by
                                              nearly 83 percent. in that same timeframe, the company reduced its incident
                                              frequency rate from 17.3 to 2.9, and its lost-time case rate from 4.0 to 0.8. from
                                              2001 to 2011, navistar’s workers compensation costs decreased by 14 percent,
     navistar’s facilities have a
                                              while disability costs decreased by 41 percent.
     strong safety culture and post           navistar’s emphasis on wellness, health, safety and productivity has yielded
     new safety records on a frequent         additional benefits in reduced absenteeism. a study has shown that the
     basis. below, the environmental          company’s successful efforts to reduce absenteeism have resulted in an annual
     and safety manager of the                savings of $20 million in the united states alone.
     waukesha, wis., foundry holds a
     trophy recognizing his facility’s safe
                                              safety and security support global growth
     department of the month, while           navistar is recognized as a leader in the area of corporate security. security
     employees of the york, pa., parts        magazine recently ranked our security team in the top six u.s. companies in
     distribution center celebrate a full     the industrial-manufacturing segment.
     year without a recordable incident.      global growth poses its own special set of safety and security challenges.
                                              the company is focused on assuring that outside the u.s., its employees
                                              receive effective healthcare and that appropriate precautions are taken against
                                              terrorism, potential pandemics and other risks. during the past year the company
                                              established a broad framework for business continuity, crisis management,
                                              emergency management and disaster recovery, and is implementing this process
                                              in multiple plants in the u.s. and other countries.
                                              the company’s global security command center manages the challenges of
                                              international travel, linking travel booking to health and security systems; keeping
                                              travelers informed about any in-country security, political and medical risks; and
                                              providing a historical trace in the event of natural disasters or other eventualities.




14

                                                                       navistar has a strong
                                                                       commitment to education,
                                                                       including stem education
                                                                       (science, technology, engineering
                                                                       and math). here, members of the
                                                                       girl scouts of greater chicago
                                                                       and northern indiana visit the
                                                                       company’s world headquarters.




                          navistar employees are
                          respected in their communities for
                          their commitment to philanthropy
                          and volunteerism. here, the company
                          donates a used step van for community
                          rebuilding in the wake of devastating
                          tornadoes in alabama.




                                                          navistar showcased its
                                                          new lisle campus when it hosted
                                                          members of chicago’s sustainability
                                                          leadership forum.




navistar works
with the wildlife
habitat council to
restore and enhance
wildlife habitat. here,
wildflowers bloom
at the company’s
springfield, ohio,
truck assembly plant.

                                                                                                           15

       community
       involvement

                                        communities: contributing to a brighter future
                                        navistar is committed to supporting causes that reflect
                                        our identity as a company while addressing the needs of
                                        our communities.
                                        commitment to stem education
                                        consistent with navistar’s commitment to innovation is the company’s extensive
                                        involvement with education, particularly stem education (science, technology,
                                        engineering and math). one key example is the company’s longstanding truck
                                        and diesel technology program, which trains students at resource-challenged
                                        schools for careers in truck and diesel engine technology. navistar launched this
                                        program in 1997 when it co-developed the three-year diesel curriculum at the
                                        chicago vocational career academy. the program, which has been certified by
                                        the national automotive technicians education foundation (natef), has now been
                                        replicated at tech high school in indianapolis, thornton township high school in
                                        harvey, ill., and the heywood career and technology center in columbia, s.c.
                                        other recent examples of navistar’s commitment to stem education include:
                                        > support of first (for inspiration and recognition of science and technology),
                                           a global math and science education initiative, which holds an annual robotics
                                           competition that attracts more than 2,000 teams.
                                        > teaming with the state of illinois and u.s. cultural ambassador kareem abdul-
                                           jabbar to promote stem education at chicago’s king high school.
                                        > working with the girl scouts of greater chicago and northern indiana to help
                                           build girls’ interest in stem careers.
                                        > supporting the dupage children’s museum, which exposes children to the
                                           principles of physics and mechanics at an early age.
     navistar teamed with u.s.
                                        > support for florida agricultural and mechanical university’s stem program for
     global cultural ambassador
                                           students from kindergarten through graduate school.
     kareem abdul-jabbar and illinois
     governor pat quinn to spark        other educational initiatives supported by the company include junior
     interest in science, technology,   achievement, scholarship chicago, national merit and national achievement
     engineering and math, especially   scholarships, the society of automotive engineers (sae) foundation and the
     among african-american students.   university of illinois morrill engineering program, among others.

                                        mentoring young people for productive careers
                                        navistar’s south american engine subsidiary, mwm international, plays a leading
                                        role in mentoring young people through award-winning social programs:
                                          ince 1987, the company has supported the formare school program, which
                                        >s
                                         introduces disadvantaged 16- to-18-year-olds to manufacturing, engineering and
                                         administrative careers. employees at our facilities in canoas, brazil, and jesús
                                         maria, argentina, volunteer to teach and mentor the students, who also receive
                                         industry-related training. more than 500 students have graduated from the formare
                                         program, and a high percentage of them are now employed, many with mwm.

16

                                         he company also supports projeto crescer (project grow up), which has
                                       >t
                                        provided on-the-job training for hundreds of underprivileged teenagers in
                                        santo amaro, brazil, and canoas, brazil. after completing a year-long training
                                        program, qualified interns are hired or given recommendations to other
                                        appropriate employers. the company continues to work with them for up to a
                                        year after they leave their internships.

                                       sustainability-focused volunteerism
                                       navistar employees are respected in their communities for their commitment to
                                       volunteerism. for three years, navistar has undertaken an employee-focused
                                       sustainability initiative, personal recognition of my individual sustainability
                                       efforts (promise). participating employees pledge to engage in safe and
                                       healthy behaviors, to choose options that save energy and are environmentally
                                       friendly, and to volunteer their time for community improvement efforts. in 2011,
                                       more than 1,300 employees from 49 locations participated, and 63 percent kept
                                       their “promise.” by participating more fully in the program, employees have the
                                       opportunity to influence navistar’s contributions to relevant charities.
navistar supports the
communities where it                   the program includes a company-wide volunteer day during which employees
operates. above, navistar              volunteer at charities in their communities. this year, more than 500 employees
employees volunteer at food            spent a saturday in late july pitching in at food pantries, spending time with
banks. below, the company              seniors, and using their green thumbs to improve local landscapes, among
supports the morton arboretum          other activities.
in lisle, ill., a 1,700-acre outdoor
                                       fostering environmental awareness
museum that helps children
and others develop a lifelong          navistar is committed to a cleaner environment…and to helping young people
love of nature.                        pursue a greener world. the company provides substantial support for the world-
                                       renowned morton arboretum in lisle, ill., a 1,700-acre outdoor museum featuring
                                       trees, gardens, woodlands, prairie and natural landscapes. the sponsorship,
                                       which focuses on the facility’s children’s garden, is designed to help children
                                       develop a lifelong love of nature through early experiences and education. also
                                       benefiting from the garden are students at the nearby giant steps school for
                                       autistic children, which is also supported by the company.

                                       supporting veterans’ causes
                                       navistar finds many ways to show its commitment to our troops and military veterans:
                                         ince 2006, navistar has supported the wounded warrior project, supporting
                                       >s
                                        injured veterans’ rehabilitation and return to daily life.
                                         or the past year, navistar has been involved in hiring our heroes, a program
                                       >f
                                        of the u.s. chamber of commerce in conjunction with the white house. we
                                        have made a pledge to the white house’s joining forces initiative, which serves
                                        america’s military families, that six percent of our new hires through 2013 will
                                        be veterans.
                                         he company supports the driver recruitment initiative of the american trucking
                                       >t
                                        associations (ata), which promotes careers in the trucking industry for returning


                                                                                                                              17

       community
       involvement

                                        military personnel. navistar’s drive for jobs program generates donations
                                        to support members of the u.s. armed forces and to address the trucking
                                        industry’s need for qualified drivers.
                                       > in addition, navistar works with employer support for guard and reserves
                                         (esgr) and other organizations to provide returning troops with easy access to
                                         our navistar job boards, with the goal of helping them find good jobs.
                                         avistar hires through the army pays program, partnership for youth success.
                                       >n
                                         avistar contributes to operation support our troops. each year, the company
                                       >n
                                        hosts a rockin’ for the troops concert with actor gary sinise, while employees
                                        donate thousands of dollars to troop-focused causes, along with hundreds of
                                        pounds of support items and hundreds of notes of encouragement.
                                         avistar employees put their sweat equity into volunteering for honor flight
                                       >n
                                        network, which supports veteran trips to national veterans’ memorials.

                                       driving diversity in the community
                                       our commitment to diversity brings the company a number of tangible benefits,
                                       including innovation, high-quality products and services, and improved customer
                                       relationships:
                                         avistar works to attract, develop and retain a diverse workforce and to ensure
                                       >n
                                        a workplace where every employee feels valued and respected. working with
                                        our diversity and inclusion executive advisory board, a distinguished group of
                                        accomplished professionals with expertise in diversity and inclusion issues, we
                                        benefit from objective advice and guidance about our diversity and inclusion
                                        strategies.
                                         avistar works to support the goals of diversity in the community through
                                       >n
                                        partnerships with historically black colleges and universities, and alliances
                                        with such organizations as the dupage county naacp, the quad county
                                        urban league, the society of women engineers, the national society of black
                                        engineers, the society of hispanic professional engineers and the national
                                        society of hispanic mbas. for the past two years, the company has served
     navistar supports diversity        as the corporate sponsor of the “influential women in trucking” award of the
     in the community and at the        women in trucking association.
     company. above, navistar          > in 2011, our spending with minority business enterprises and women business
     financial corporation employees     enterprises increased by 15.6 percent, reaching nearly $319 million. navistar
     gather at a “mix and munch”         and its employees won multiple awards for leadership in diversity, and the
     event designed to celebrate         company was honored as corporation of the year by the chicago minority
     diversity, while navistar young     supplier development council and the minority business enterprise input
     professionals, one of the           committee for its commitment to supplier diversity initiatives.
     company’s employee resource
     groups, takes part in an open
     house at world headquarters.




18

clients of aspire, a not-for-profit that provides
services to more than 1,000 children and adults with developmental
disabilities, work on a paid basis to assemble valve rotators for
navistar’s melrose park engine plant.


                                                                       third graders at byrd elementary
                                                                       school in melrose park, ill., posed happily
                                                                       with an international® prostar+ ® as part of
                                                                       a junior achievement event.




                               navistar is committed to
                               veterans’ causes, including an
                               annual “rockin’ for the troops”
                               concert, headlined by actor gary
                               sinise, that so far has raised more
                               than $2 million for military families
                               and veterans.


                                                                       as part of the company’s
                                                                       volunteer day, employees from the
                                                                       tulsa, okla., bus assembly plant built
                                                                       raised community garden spaces at
                                                                       a local elementary school.




                                                                                                                      19

     gri
     content
     index



standard disclosures

indicator
                 description                                                         reference
number
                                                             strategy & profile
1.0 strategy and analysis
1.1              statement from the most senior decision maker of the                inside front cover
                 organization (e.g., ceo, chair, or equivalent senior position)
                 about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and
                 its strategy.
2.0 organizational profile
2.1              name of the organization.                                           cover
2.2              primary brands, products, and/or services.                          page 4 (10k)
2.3              operational structure of the organization, including main           page 4 (10k)
                 divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint
                 ventures.
2.4              location of organization’s headquarters.                            back cover
2.5              number of countries where the organization operates, and            navistar has significant operations in the united states,
                 names of countries with either major operations or that are         canada, mexico, brazil, argentina and india. in addition, it
                 specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the   has an assembly center and parts depot in south africa; 49%
                 report.                                                             ownership of engine and truck production operations in india
                                                                                     with its partner mahindra; regional sales offices in china,
                                                                                     dubai, uae and australia; and a training center in colombia.
2.6              nature of ownership and legal form.                                 page 4 (10k)
2.7              markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors             pages 5-8, 121 (10k)
                 served, and types of customers/beneficiaries).
2.8              scale of the reporting organization, including: number of           pages 9, 40, 41, 60, 62, 90, 120 (10k)
                 employees; net sales (for private sector organizations) or net
                 revenues (for public sector organizations); total capitalization
                 broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private
                 sector organizations); and quantity of products or services
                 provided.
2.9              significant changes during the reporting period regarding           pages 1-17, 22-56, 73-78 (10k)
                 size, structure, or ownership.
2.10             awards received in the reporting period.                            www.navistar.com, “awards and honors”
3.0 report parameters
report profile
3.1              reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information       november 1, 2010 through october 31, 2011
                 provided.
3.2              date of most recent previous report (if any).                       2010 report, published in 2011
3.3              reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.).                           annual
3.4              contact point for questions regarding the report or its             karen denning, director, external communication, navistar
                 contents.

20

indicator
              description                                                    reference
number
report scope and boundary
3.5           process for defining report content.                           for the purposes of the corporate sustainability report,
                                                                             we consider material issues to be those that reflect the
                                                                             organization’s significant economic, environmental, and
                                                                             social impacts, or that would substantively influence the
                                                                             assessments and decisions of stakeholders.
                                                                             navistar determines those risks that are material to it using
                                                                             a formal enterprise risk management (erm) process. the
                                                                             erm risk assessment process is conducted annually at
                                                                             the business unit and department level and semi-annually
                                                                             at the executive level. the involvement of both executives
                                                                             and business units ensures that enterprise-wide risks and
                                                                             business unit-specific risks are identified and assessed.
                                                                             the assessment process develops an understanding of
                                                                             risks and then prioritizes them by magnitude of impact
                                                                             and likelihood of occurrence. for each of the top risks, a
                                                                             risk management action plan is developed that identifies
                                                                             necessary resources to support and validate the scope,
                                                                             duration, and overall adequacy of the risk management
                                                                             action plan.
3.6           boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions,            this report covers navistar, inc. and navistar financial
              subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers).   corporation (both 100 percent owned) and entities for which
                                                                             the company has a controlling financial interest or is the
                                                                             primary beneficiary, worldwide as of october 31, 2011.
                                                                             navistar’s principal joint venture is blue diamond truck and
                                                                             blue diamond parts joint venture with ford motor company
                                                                             (75 percent navistar ownership). in december 2011, ford
                                                                             notified the company of its intention to dissolve the bdt joint
                                                                             venture effective december 2014.
                                                                             navistar owns less than 50 percent of the following joint
                                                                             ventures:
                                                                             • mahindra navistar automotives (49 percent navistar ownership).

                                                                             • mahindra navistar engines private (49 percent navistar
                                                                              ownership).
                                                                             these two joint ventures are not included in the boundary of
                                                                             this report.
                                                                             navistar sells international® and cat® branded trucks in
                                                                             north america, as well as in various global markets through
                                                                             an alliance with caterpillar and our nc2 global, llc (“nc2”)
                                                                             operations, which became a wholly owned subsidiary of
                                                                             navistar in september 2011. the alliance with caterpillar is
                                                                             not included in the boundary of this report.
                                                                             navistar markets its commercial products through an
                                                                             extensive independent dealer network in north america,
                                                                             which offers a comprehensive range of services and other
                                                                             support functions to end users. dealerships are not included
                                                                             in the boundary of this report.
                                                                             for a comprehensive list of subsidiaries and principal
                                                                             nonconsolidated joint ventures of navistar international
                                                                             corporation, please see the company’s most recent annual
                                                                             report on form 10-k (page 8) filed with the u.s. securities
                                                                             and exchange commission.

                                                                                                                                             21

indicator
              description                                                       reference
number
3.7           state any specific limitations on the scope or boundary           this report addresses the material economic, environmental,
              of the report.                                                    and social impacts of the organization, within the context of
                                                                                the boundary of the report as described in section 3.6.
3.8           basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased       the basis for reporting on subsidiaries, joint ventures, leased
              facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can    facilities, and other entities does not significantly affect
              significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or   comparability from period to period.
              between organizations.
3.10          explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information     none identified
              provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-
              statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/
              periods, nature of business, measurement methods).
3.11          significant changes from previous reporting periods in the        navistar has been reporting on environmental and health
              scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the            and safety issues since 1994. the current report represents
              report.                                                           the first time that navistar has aligned the report with the gri
                                                                                guidelines. in terms of data trends that are presented in this
                                                                                report, there are no significant changes to the methodology
                                                                                used in prior years for the collection and reporting of
                                                                                performance data.
3.12          table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in     the present table
              the report.
4.0 governance
4.1           governance structure of the organization, including               page 16 (navistar 2011 annual report)
              committees under the highest governance body responsible
              for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational
              oversight.
4.2           indicate whether the chair of the highest governance body is      page 11 (10k)
              also an executive officer.
4.3           for organizations that have a unitary board structure, state      page 12 (navistar 2011 annual report)
              the number of members of the highest governance body that
              are independent and/or non-executive members.
4.4           mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide              page 6 (navistar 2011 proxy statement)
              recommendations or direction to the highest governance
              body.
stakeholder engagement
4.14          list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization.           pages 27-29
4.15          basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with       identified and validated by sustainability committee.
              whom to engage. this includes the organization’s process
              for defining its stakeholder groups, and for determining the
              groups with which to engage and not to engage.




22

indicator
              description                                                     reference
number
                                    management approach & performance indicators
ec economic
ec2           financial implications and other risks and opportunities for    page 26
              the organization’s activities due to climate change.
en environmental
en3           direct energy consumption by primary energy source.             pages 8 and 25
en4           indirect energy consumption by primary source.                  pages 8 and 25
en5           energy saved due to conservation and efficiency                 in 2011, navistar consumed 1.6 percent more energy (electricity
              improvements.                                                   and natural gas) than in 2010. however, navistar had significant
                                                                              production increases in 2011. normalizing the energy
                                                                              consumption by total number of trucks and engines produced,
                                                                              navistar’s per production unit energy consumption in 2011 was
                                                                              5.5 percent lower than 2010.
                                                                              in 2010, navistar senior management approved a $3 million
                                                                              energy fund to support energy capital improvement projects at
                                                                              all facilities. the $3 million funding was allocated to 25 separate
                                                                              projects for implementation during 2010 and 2011. the 25
                                                                              projects are expected to generate $1.7 million annual energy
                                                                              savings and 17 million khws equivalent of energy reductions
                                                                              (equivalent to 12,000 tonnes of ghg emission reductions).
                                                                              in 2012, navistar started an energy treasure hunt program. the
                                                                              treasure hunt is a process for employees to learn a culture of
                                                                              continuous improvement to reduce energy, cost and emissions.
                                                                              it is focused on day to day low+d37 cost / no cost opportunities
                                                                              and uses “train the trainers” approach to guide facility personnel
                                                                              on identifying and quantifying energy operational saving
                                                                              opportunities using standard tools and techniques. during
                                                                              april 2012, navistar’s very first pilot treasure hunt program at
                                                                              the garland plant identified close to $250,000 potential energy
                                                                              savings (12 percent of the facility’s overall energy spending).
                                                                              most of these opportunities are no-cost or low-cost projects.
                                                                              navistar will conduct one more pilot treasure hunt during 2012,
                                                                              with full program implementation starting in 2013.
en6           initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy     pages 2-5
              based products and services, and reductions in energy
              requirements as a result of these initiatives.
en8           total water withdrawal by source.                               the total volume of water withdrawn by navistar in 2011 was
                                                                              approximately 2.2 million cubic meters. almost 100 percent of
                                                                              this total was from municipal water supplies or other utilities.
                                                                              navistar has challenged all of its manufacturing facilities to
                                                                              develop programs and improve its processes to reduce water
                                                                              consumption. the company has set an initial target to reduce
                                                                              water consumption by 10 percent from 2011 to 2015.
en16          total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by           page 7
              weight.
en22          total weight of waste by type and disposal method.              pages 9, 24
la labor practices and decent work
la7           rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and          page 13
              absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region.   there were no occupational diseases in 2011. other
                                                                              occupational diseases, defined as any non-acute condition
                                                                              such as muscle strain or skin conditions, are included in the
                                                                              injury data. there were no work-related fatalities in 2008,
                                                                              2009, 2010 or 2011.

                                                                                                                                                 23

 indicator
                         description                                                                                   reference
 number
 so society
 so3                     percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-                                       all office (white collar) employees are required to complete
                         corruption policies and procedures.                                                           e-learning relating to our code of conduct on an annual
                                                                                                                       basis. all managers and office (white collar) employees
                                                                                                                       in key roles and responsibilities are required to complete
                                                                                                                       e-learning or attend in-person training relating to
                                                                                                                       anti-corruption on an annual basis. all plant (blue collar)
                                                                                                                       employees are required to complete in person code of
                                                                                                                       conduct training and/or receive code of conduct awareness
                                                                                                                       on a yearly basis.
                                                                                                                       over the years we have trained thousands of employees
                                                                                                                       on a variety of compliance-related topics, including code
                                                                                                                       of conduct and anti-corruption, and will continue to do so
                                                                                                                       in the years to come. our vice president and corporate
                                                                                                                       compliance officer and our senior vice president, general
                                                                                                                       counsel and chief ethics officer are committed to creating
                                                                                                                       an ethical environment and regularly meet with employees
                                                                                                                       to discuss ethics- and compliance-related topics, including
                                                                                                                       code of conduct and anti-corruption. in 2011, 15,711
                                                                                                                       employees were trained on our code of conduct and
                                                                                                                       4,937 employees were trained on anti-corruption. our 2012
                                                                                                                       compliance training program will educate employees on 14
                                                                                                                       ethics- and compliance-related topics that will be conducted
                                                                                                                       through e-learning and/or in person.


en22: total weight of waste by type and disposal method (in tons)

                              metals, sands, baghouse dust, slag                                            all other waste                                       total waste generated
 method                         hazardous                 non-hazardous                      hazardous                 non-hazardous                     hazardous                 non-hazardous
 recycling                               0                          21,153                         2,845                         24,486                         2,845                        45,636
 composting                              0                              0                             0                              0                             0                             0
 recovery,
 including                               0                              0                            287                           888                           287                           888
 energy recovery
 incineration
                                         0                              0                            137                           240                           137                           240
 (mass burned)
 deep well
                                         0                              0                             0                              0                             0                             0
 injection
 landfill                                0                          35,291                           207                         16,839                          207                         52,130
 on-site storage                         0                              0                             0                              0                             0                             0
 other
 (wastewater                             0                              0                            44                           1,674                           44                          1,674
 treatment)
 total hazardous                         0                                                          3521                                                        3,521
 total non-
                                                                    56,444                                                       44,127                                                     100,571
 hazardous
                                                                                                                                             total                             104,092
notes:
 reuse: no data; many examples
 non-hazardous qualifier: non-hazardous waste generation is the amount of non-hazardous waste sent off-site for recycling or disposal from the company’s manufacturing, engineering and parts distribution
 operations. due to their large volumes, certain non-hazardous waste streams such as sand, slag and baghouse dust from the company’s foundries, and metals from some of the assembly plants are not
 included in this chart.													
 hazardous qualifier: hazardous waste generation is the amount of hazardous waste sent off-site for recycling, disposal or treatment from the company’s manufacturing, engineering and part distribution
 operations. wastes are considered hazardous based on the regulatory requirements applicable.



24

en3 and en4: direct and indirect energy consumption

                                                        2008                            2009                           2010                            2011
total energy (mmbtu)                                   5,084,093                      4,865,861                       4,190,046                      4,294,744
electricity kwhs                                   669,366,468                     566,493,204                    501,678,928                    554,243,984
electricity in mmbtu                                   2,283,878                      1,932,875                       1,711,729                      1,891,080
direct energy in mmbtu                                 2,800,215                      2,932,986                       2,478,318                      2,403,663
direct energy in giga joules                           2,954,226                      3,094,300                       2,614,625                      2,535,865



                                                    electricity consumption (kwhs)                                                                                         % electricity
                                                                                                                                                                           generated by
                                                                                                                                                                           fossil fuels
                                                         2008                           2009                           2010                            2011
argentina                                              3,449,916                      1,542,864                       2,843,255                      3,516,654                66.7%
brazil                                               31,038,000                     27,679,791                      33,270,061                     38,044,299                 12.0%
canada                                               40,730,877                     19,982,548                      10,338,714                       9,233,447                22.0%
mexico                                               41,998,260                     38,123,454                      47,988,281                     61,083,427                 84.0%
united states                                      552,149,415                    479,164,547                     412,179,309                    449,217,824                  67.5%



                                                    electricity generated by fossil fuels (kwhs)

                                                        2008                            2009                           2010                            2011
argentina                                              2,301,094                      1,029,090                       1,896,451                      2,345,608
brazil                                                 3,724,560                      3,321,575                       3,992,407                      4,565,316
canada                                                 8,960,793                      4,396,161                       2,274,517                      2,031,358
mexico                                               35,278,538                     32,023,701                      40,310,156                     51,310,079
united states                                      372,700,855                    323,436,069                     278,221,034                    303,222,031


                                                    energy consumed at electric generation stations
                                                    (assumes the generators are 33% efficient)
                                                        2008                            2009                           2010                            2011
argentina                                              6,903,282                      3,087,271                       5,689,353                      7,036,825
brazil                                               11,173,680                       9,964,725                     11,977,222                     13,695,948
canada                                               26,882,379                     13,188,482                        6,823,551                      6,094,075
mexico                                             105,835,615                      96,071,104                    120,930,468                    153,930,236
united states                                   1,118,102,565                     970,308,208                     834,663,101                    909,666,094


                                                    electricity generated by fossil fuels
                                                    (giga joules)
                                                        2008                            2009                           2010                            2011
argentina                                                  24,852                          11,114                         20,482                          25,333
brazil                                                     40,225                          35,873                         43,118                          49,305
canada                                                     96,777                          47,479                         24,565                          21,939
mexico                                                    381,008                        345,856                        435,350                         554,149
united states                                          4,025,169                      3,493,110                       3,004,787                      3,274,798
total indirect energy
                                                       4,568,031                      3,933,431                       3,528,301                      3,925,523
in giga joules
 direct energy consumption reflects non-renewable energy sources consumed at all navistar manufacturing plants, parts distribution centers, offices, used truck centers,
 company-owned dealership locations and fuel consumed by leased vehicles.
 indirect energy consumption reflects non-renewable energy sources consumed at upstream power plants to generate the electricity consumed by navistar facilities.




                                                                                                                                                                                           25

ec2: financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities
due to climate change

gri requirement                                           detail
report whether the organization’s senior governance       the audit committee of the board of directors has direct responsibility for
body considered climate change and the risks and          climate change.
opportunities it presents to the organization.            management of climate change issues, including meeting ghg reduction targets
                                                          that are reported to the board, is one of the most significant accountabilities of the
                                                          environmental and energy affairs organization at both the corporate and facility
                                                          levels. navistar is reviewing appropriate actions regarding incentive mechanisms
                                                          for individuals with significant contributions relating to climate change issues. the
                                                          incentive can be part of navistar’s strategy to achieve its ghg reduction goals.
report risks and/or opportunities posed by climate        climate change is integrated into navistar’s business strategy. in june each year,
change that have potential financial implications for     navistar’s vice president, environmental and energy affairs, and senior vice
the organization, including:                              president and general counsel present to the audit committee of the board the
                                                          company’s progress, status and major programs regarding environmental and energy
                                                          management. the reporting also includes coverage of the company’s progress,
                                                          status and actions regarding climate change.
     risks due to physical changes associated with     the physical risks to navistar from extreme weather events, changes in weather
     climate change (e.g., impacts of modified weather patterns, rising temperatures, sea level rise and other related phenomena, both now
     patterns and heat-related illness);               and in the future, are no different than risks to other companies.
                                                          currently, however, we are unable to predict specific physical risks due to climate
                                                          change.
     regulatory risks (e.g., the cost of activities and   navistar is monitoring regulatory development on ghg policy, trading and taxation
     systems to comply with new regulations);             and has engaged extensively with policymakers on possible responses to climate
                                                          change issues.
                                                          currently, navistar believes that if and when a mandatory stationary ghg cap and
                                                          trade program is implemented, navistar could potentially pay higher costs for its
                                                          energy.
                                                          however, until a specific regulatory program is adopted at the federal level, navistar
                                                          is unable to fully assess the regulatory risks that may arise. in august 2011, epa
                                                          and dot adopted final rules setting fuel economy and greenhouse gas emissions
                                                          standards for medium and heavy duty engines and vehicles. these rules come into
                                                          effect in model year 2014. these and other rules drive risks from costs for product
                                                          development and regulatory implementation.
     opportunities to provide new technologies,           navistar believes dieselization of motor vehicles is one of the solutions to climate
     products, or services to address challenges          change issues. additionally, navistar’s innovation and leadership in hybrid and
     related to climate change; and                       electric trucks positions the company to excel in these growing markets.
     potential competitive advantages created for the     navistar expects shifts in consumer attitude and demand for products with lesser
     organization by regulatory or other technology       adverse environmental impacts. navistar believes dieselization of motor vehicles
     changes linked to climate change.                    is one of the solutions to climate change issues and would consider the shifts in
                                                          consumer attitude as an opportunity rather than a risk.
                                                          additionally, our innovation and leadership in hybrid and electric trucks positions
                                                          navistar to excel in these growing markets, certainly ahead of our competition.
report whether management has quantitatively              navistar has not yet provided a quantitative estimate of the financial implications
estimated the financial implications (e.g., cost of       of climate change for the organization. future efforts will look to quantify these
insurance and carbon credits) of climate change           implications and to integrate these costs into decision-making processes.
for the organization. where possible, quantification
would be beneficial. if quantified, disclose financial
implications and the tools used to quantify.




26

4.14: list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization

stakeholder     approaches to engagement                key issues                                   how issues have been addressed
communities     • direct engagement and dialogue       • jobs                                      • providing appropriate employment
                 with community members and             • opportunities for local businesses
                                                                                                      and supplier opportunities
                 government officials                                                                  orking with local and state
                                                                                                     •w
                                                        • opportunities for local not-for-profits
                • encouraging employee and                                                           government officials to assure
                 executive engagement with              • environmental impacts                      alignment of needs
                 communities                                                                           ncouraging employee volunteerism
                                                                                                     •e
                                                                                                      and executive board memberships
                                                                                                       roviding philanthropic support
                                                                                                     •p
                                                                                                      to organizations that align with
                                                                                                      navistar’s strategic priorities,
                                                                                                      including education
                                                                                                       aking contributions and grants to
                                                                                                     •m
                                                                                                      community nonprofit organizations
                                                                                                     • i mplementing energy and
                                                                                                      environmental improvements in
                                                                                                      company operations, products and
                                                                                                      services
dealers         • dealer advisory boards               • product availability                      • recruitment of new dealers in

                • direct dealer contacts through       • salability of products, parts and
                                                                                                      emerging markets
                 company’s dealer operations unit        service                                     • company establishment of

                • direct dealer contacts through       • product and service quality
                                                                                                      standards for training and service
                 company’s sales professionals,                                                       availability
                 parts professionals and service                                                     • issuance of service level
                 professionals                                                                        authorizations permitting dealer
                                                                                                      performance of warranty service
                                                                                                     • guidance on siting, branding,
                                                                                                      sustainability and other features of
                                                                                                      new dealer facilities
                                                                                                     • training for dealer personnel

                                                                                                     • financial benchmarking

                                                                                                     • dealer performance evaluation and
                                                                                                      report card
                                                                                                     • awards and financial incentives for
                                                                                                      outstanding dealer performance
                                                                                                     • sharing of customer survey data to
                                                                                                      provide insights into market trends
new customers   • ongoing customer research            • cost                                      • understanding customer satisfaction

                • customer advisory boards for truck   •r
                                                          eliability
                                                                                                      drivers by customer type and by
                 market segments                                                                      business, and closing gaps
                                                          uel economy
                                                        •f
                                                                                                     • developing and communicating
                • direct company interaction with
                                                          river issues
                                                        •d                                            action plans based on customer
                 customers by sales people or senior
                                                        •c
                                                          ompetitive segment issues                  satisfaction data
                 executives
                                                        •g
                                                          overnment incentives                      • focusing business strategy on
                • branding and advertising
                                                                                                      innovation and ongoing productivity
                • marketing communications               egulation (fuel economy, emissions,
                                                        •r
                                                                                                      improvements
                                                         driver hours, etc.)
                                                                                                     • identifying and implementing
                                                          roduct innovation
                                                        •p
                                                                                                      energy-saving opportunities for
                                                                                                      customers




                                                                                                                                              27

stakeholder     approaches to engagement             key issues                                how issues have been addressed
shareholders    • shareholder communications        • monitoring investors’ changing         • regular communications with
and providers   • board communications
                                                      expectations                              investors through quarterly
of capital                                           • demonstrating performance that
                                                                                                earnings releases, analyst days and
                                                      meets socially responsible investor       conference calls, as well as quarterly
                                                      expectations, while also meeting          and annual sec documents – 10qs
                                                      company’s strategic goals                 and 10ks – and participation at
                                                                                                industry conferences
                                                                                                 ctive marketing, plant tours and
                                                                                               •a
                                                                                                conference schedules
                                                                                                 ace-to-face meetings with our
                                                                                               •f
                                                                                                shareholders several times a year
                                                                                                 ssuring that management is
                                                                                               •a
                                                                                                accessible to all stakeholders and
                                                                                                obtains full access to their questions
                                                                                                and thoughts
                                                                                                 roviding investor feedback to the
                                                                                               •p
                                                                                                board of directors
suppliers       • supplier selection process        • assuring supplier performance          • posting requirements to do business

                • comprehensive supply agreements
                                                      meets navistar expectations               on company website; creating
                                                     • communicating production
                                                                                                supplier scorecard to communicate
                • regular purchase orders                                                      supplier performance achievement
                                                      requirements
                • master service agreements                                                   • using edi and supplier capacity
                                                     • assuring competitiveness
                • operational communications and                                               questionnaires for capacity
                                                     • maintaining supplier relationships      assessments
                 data sharing
                                                     • keeping abreast of developing          • industry benchmarking and cost
                                                      supplier technology, including            modeling, followed by supplier
                                                      energy and emissions improvement          meetings with purchasing supply
                                                      opportunities                             managers
                                                     • aligning navistar global growth with   • holding regularly scheduled
                                                      suppliers                                 executive face-to-face meetings with
                                                     • managing raw materials costs            select suppliers
                                                     • managing for sustainability            • holding supplier technology fairs
                                                                                                and other meetings between
                                                                                                supplier and navistar engineering
                                                                                                teams
                                                                                               • sharing global growth strategies
                                                                                                by region with key suppliers;
                                                                                                conducting joint reviews of
                                                                                                manufacturing footprint (present and
                                                                                                future)
                                                                                               • collaborating with suppliers on
                                                                                                market forecasts, hedging strategies
                                                                                                and joint brokerage
                                                                                               • conducting supplier diversity
                                                                                                program; working with suppliers
                                                                                                to address materials handling and
                                                                                                disposal requirements




28

 stakeholder                  approaches to engagement                             key issues                            how issues have been addressed
 employees, other             • communications and information                    • meeting company performance        • communicating company strategy
 workers, and their             sharing                                              goals                                to employees through internal
 trade unions                 • training                                          • assuring development of employee
                                                                                                                          communications, executive
                                                                                     skill sets needed for business       presentations, team and business
                              • performance management                                                                   unit meetings and public recognition
                                                                                     requirements and personal
                                                                                     development                           evelopment and communication of
                                                                                                                         •d

                                                                                   • assuring employee support for
                                                                                                                          policies to encourage a progressive,
                                                                                     company sustainability focus         diverse and inclusive work
                                                                                                                          environment
                                                                                                                           se of company’s total performance
                                                                                                                         •u
                                                                                                                          management system to identify
                                                                                                                          and meet employee developmental
                                                                                                                          needs, both short- and long-term
                                                                                                                           reation of navistar university as
                                                                                                                         •c
                                                                                                                          principal training mechanism
                                                                                                                           rovision of competitive
                                                                                                                         •p
                                                                                                                          compensation and benefit programs
                                                                                                                           se of ngauge employee surveys
                                                                                                                         •u
                                                                                                                          to track employee satisfaction and
                                                                                                                          identify specific needs
                                                                                                                           stablishment of proactive employee
                                                                                                                         •e
                                                                                                                          wellness and safety programs
                                                                                                                           reation of promise employee
                                                                                                                         •c
                                                                                                                          sustainability program to provide
                                                                                                                          opportunities for employee
                                                                                                                          engagement on health, safety,
                                                                                                                          environment and community needs
                                                                                                                           stablishment of internal affinity
                                                                                                                         •e
                                                                                                                          groups based on employee needs




© 2012 navistar, inc. all rights reserved. all marks are trademarks of their respective owners.
                                                                                                                                                                29

2701 navistar drive
lisle, il 60532
usa
