                                               “”




                  society




                                 en
         growth                    vironment




corporate responsibility report 2014

“”

                                       “”



corporate responsibility report 2014

                                                                               trikala




“”

               μ/δ τεροβου - f/t terovo
                                                                                                            karditsa


     preveza




                                   ημικομβοσ κομποτιου - semi i/c kompoti       evritania

                                          μ/δ μενιδιου - f/t menidi


                                                                                                                       fthiotida
                                                                       ιονια οδοσ
                                                                         ionia odos

     lefkada


                                                                                etoloakarnania
                                                μ/δ αγγελοκαστρου - f/t aggelokastro




                                                                                   μ/δ κλοκοβασ - f/t klokova




                                                                                                   achaia

larissa




                                                                                                    “”

                 magnisia




                            μ/δ τραγανασ - f/t tragana
  fokida

                                                                                       evia

αυτοκινητοδρομοσ παθε
      pathe motorway
                                        μ/δ θηβων - f/t thiva
                                                                μ/δ βαθυ - f/t vathi




                   viotia




                                                                                              f/t




                                                     attica




     corinthia

“”

     table of contents


“”                                              “”

      note of introduction                 07
      message from the ceo                 08
      about us                             10
      corporate social responsibility:
      our approach                         16
      the stakeholders of nea odos         20
      road safety                          22
      quality services                     31
      human resources                      36
      caring for the environment           44
      cooperation with local communities
      & social contribution                52
      report's profile                     57
      gri-g4 index table                   58

“”




     6

         note of introduction

corporate social responsibility. an entire world, for our world. a misunderstood

concept. identified with one-off charities and beautifully scripted texts. we
                                                                                   “”
at nea odos however are people of action. we are on the road every day, 24

hours a day, 365 days and nights a year. we are there for every driver, every

family, every worker using the motorway that we manage and operate, for all

their transportations. we strive to be a communally active, socially responsible

company, contributing significantly to the public interest and the country. the

motorway is in fact a living organism. its harmonious, development integration

with the environment and society, is an end in itself. the document you are

holding in your hands is our company’s 1st corporate social responsibility

report, presenting with data and numbers the practices and results of 2014.

you can also find all the information in it available on our website in the

special category «corporate social responsibility» (company/ corporate social

responsibility).




                                       7

           message from the ceo

                               social responsibility and the promotion of sustainability
                               are central to nea odos’ strategy and daily operation.
“”                             by publishing this report, our company wishes to
                               record its planning and performance in critical issues
                               connected to its financial efficacy, social awareness and
                               environmental policy. we like to back up our words with
                               data, but at the same time we strive through this report
                               to form and develop through time a new platform, a new
                               channel of communication with our social partners and
                               the stakeholders that contribute to our company’s growth
                               and are affected by its activities.

                                even though 2014 was yet another year of macro-economic
                                uncertainty and significant structural problems for the
     domestic financial system, nea odos continues, and will continue to implement
     its business plan without fail, remaining faithful to its vision: to contribute to the
     greek economy, by upgrading national road and transportation infrastructure and
     offering both direct and indirect financial benefits on a local, regional and national
     level, always with a view to sustainable development.

     with a sense of responsibility towards every driver on the road and society as a
     whole, road safety is at the core of our philosophy. minimizing accidents through
     targeted interventions and emphasizing the promotion of responsible driving
     behaviour are key priorities for the company and our associated partners.

     we strive to be a communally active, socially responsible company, contributing
     significantly to the public interest. we pay special attention to the local communities
     of adjacent regions and contribute to a better quality of life through targeted
     activities and responsible practices. we choose local suppliers for our projects,
     and we always try to find our employees from the neighbouring municipalities,
     communities and villages. in 2014 for example, 17% of our employees were from
     the wider area of viotia, and 39% from other areas outside attica. especially during
     this difficult period for the greek economy, we try on an annual basis to implement
     actions of welfare, support of vulnerable groups of the population and sponsorship
     of the programs of non-profit organisations.

     another strategic goal is motorway user satisfaction. to this end, we implement
     a quality management system, certified in accordance with iso 9001:2008
     requirements, placing priority on constantly improving the quality of our services.
     a result and a reward of our efforts are the results of related opinion surveys
     among users of the motorways managed by our company: more than 90% of the
     persons surveyed have a favourable opinion of nea odos, expressing their high
     satisfaction with the various services we offer.




                                               8

our people play a leading role throughout this mission. in our daily endeavour to
meet our own high standards, our people, with high levels of expertise, valuable
experience and specialisation, are the driving force and a decisive factor for our
company’s success.
                                                                                        “”
it is a priority for management to develop an excellent working environment with
emphasis on safety, continuous development and good use of employees’ talents.
in 2014, 70 of our employees participated at least once in a training program or
seminar, i.e. 19% of the entire staff, whereas the total training man-hours were
1,650 hours, corresponding to approximately 16 hours per employee. at the same
time, we reward effort, we identify talents and we support the development of
our people. we implement equal treatment, promote impartiality and support
in practice gender equality, with 49% of our people being women. all this, in a
framework that puts health and safety at its core, as we have been implementing
a health and safety management system since 2013, certified according to the
ohsas 18001 requirements.

with a view to the future, i believe we will continue on our course in high gear, and
always on the road mapped out by our vision and mission.


 our vision
 we are determined to change the map of greece and set the standards for our
 sector.
 we create value for the country, the local communities and our shareholders,
 using as main vehicle our people’s commitment, expertise and knowledge.



 our mission
 we offer the highest standards of safety in combination with top quality services.
 we pursue excellence in the operation and maintenance of our motorways.we
 embrace the imperative need for protecting the environment, fostering our
 people and providing sustainable growth.




                                                                 emmanouil vrailas

                                                                                ceo




                                         9

                        2. about us
     nea odos is the company that has undertaken the study, design,
     construction, operation, exploitation and maintenance of the «ionia
“”   odos» concession project. this is an inspired project that has two
     main parts, including the works both on ionia odos and a specific
     section of the pathe motorway.

     with a total length of approximately 380 km, ionia odos, as a
     concession project includes:
     a) “ionia odos” motorway of a length of 196 km from antirrio to
         ioannina (egnatia odos i/c).
     b) part of the pathe motorway, of a length of 173 km, from the
         metamorfosi i/c to skarfia, after kamena vourla;
     c) pathe connecting branch schimatari - chalkida, of a length of
        11 km.

     a motorway not only needs to be constructed according to the
     most modern and reliable international standards, but like a
     living organism, also requires constant monitoring in order to
     be maintained in an excellent and safe condition. nea odos has
     undertaken the operation and maintenance of the ionia odos
     concession project for 30 years. among its main competences,
     we find: control and monitoring of traffic, as well as managing
     emergencies through the special traffic management centers and
     the 24-hour road safety patrols, programming and management
     of the required maintenance works, as well as a significant
     number of routine works, for example the cleaning of the road.
     especially as regards the critical part of maintenance, it includes:
     daily inspections, scheduled and unscheduled repair works, as
     well as maintenance works for the company’s fleet and facilities.




     the primary objective is to provide safe and fast transportation
     conditions as well as high quality services to all motorway users.

                                     10

ionia odos is the connecting branch between the bridge
of antirrio and egnatia odos i/c in ioannina. this 196 km
motorway is of paramount importance, both at a social
and development level, since:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  “”
• ιt connects western greece, upgrading important
     urban and rural centers such as ioannina, arta and
     agrinio.
                                                                                                                                     μ/δ τεροβου - f/t terovo




• it adequately connects the ports of patra, astakos,
     and igoumenitsa.
• it contributes to the wider development of the area by                                                                                                 ημικομβοσ κομποτιου - semi i/c kompoti



     improving access to major tourist and archaeological                                                                                                       μ/δ μενιδιου - f/t menidi




     sites since, upon completion of its construction, the                                                                                                                                           ιονια οδοσ
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ionia odos
     trip from antirrio to ioannina will take 1 hour and 40
     minutes instead of 3 hours and 30 minutes today.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          μ/δ τρ


                                                                                                                                                                      μ/δ αγγελοκαστρου - f/t aggelokastro

this is a project that crosses two regions and four
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  αυτοκινητοδρομοσ παθε
prefectures and meets a long-existing demand, giving a                                                                                                                                                                                                pathe motorway
new impetus for growth. its technical features include: 24                                                                                                                                                     μ/δ κλοκοβασ - f/t klokova




bridges of a total length of 7 km, 4 tunnels of a total length
of 11 km, 77 underpasses and 24 overpasses.
                μ/δ τεροβου - f/t terovo




important changes are scheduled and implemented in
order for the pathe motorway to become a modern
                                    ημικομβοσ κομποτιου - semi i/c kompoti




and safe motorway. our goal is to turn those 173 km
                                           μ/δ μενιδιου - f/t menidi




from metamorfosi to skarfia intoιονια  οδοσ of reference
                                  a model
                                 ionia odos
for both greek and international standards. the works
already under way include: road widening works,
guardrail replacement, interchange reconstruction,
                                                                                                                                                                      μ/δ τραγανασ - f/t tragana


                                                 μ/δ αγγελοκαστρου - f/t aggelokastro




upgrading of existing parking spaces and creation                                                                     αυτοκινητοδρομοσ παθε
of new ones, upgrading of horizontal and vertical                                   μ/δ κλοκοβασ - f/t klokova
                                                                                                                          pathe motorway
                                                                                                                                                                                   μ/δ θηβων - f/t thiva
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     μ/δ βαθυ - f/t vathi



signage, etc.

this pathe section crosses two regions and three                                                                                                                                                                                            f/t




prefectures, and among its technical characteristics
we find: 8 bridges, 30 interchanges and semi-
interchanges and 84 overpasses and underpasses.




                    the main concern is for every driver to feel that nea odos is the best
                    possible fellow traveller.

                                                                                                                 11

     shareholder line-up

     nea odos, with the gek terna, ferrovial and acs groups as shareholders,
     combines know how, experience and expertise in the construction and operation
     of modern motorways, along with comprehensive knowledge of the greek reality.
     the company’s registered office is in athens (87 themistokleous street), while the
     headquarters are in maroussi (13 sorou street).

     on 31/12/2014 the shareholder line-up of nea odos was the following:
“”                         shareholder                                  percentage
      gek terna s.a.                                                      33,33%

      ferrovial s.a.                                                      33,34%

      acs servicios s.a.                                                    23%

      dragados s.a.                                                          9%

      iridium s.a.                                                         1,33%




        shareholders

                          the gek terna group is one of the largest business
                          groups in greece, with a presence also in central and
                          south-eastern europe, the usa, north africa and the
                          middle east. it is active in the fields of construction, energy
                          generation and trade, concessions, waste management
                          and mining activities to real estate development &
                          management. with a total number of 5,000 employees
                          around the world, the group has made investments of
                          more than 1.5 billion in the last five years. gek terna
                          and its subsidiary terna energy are listed on the
                          athens exchange.

                          the acs group is a global giant active in the area of
                          constructions and related services. it currently has
                          138,542 employees and carries out its activities in
                          more than 40 countries. acs’s shares are listed on the
                          exchanges of madrid, barcelona, bilbao and valencia.

                          the ferrovial group is the largest private investor in the
                          world in transportation infrastructure, with approximately
                          70,000 employees, operating in more than 15 countries.
                          ferrovial is listed on the madrid exchange and is
                          included in the international dow jones sustainability
                          and ftse4good indexes.




                                             12

organisational structure of project

the project’s organisational structure is presented in the following figure:



                                     greek state


       banks                           nea odos
                                                                                       “”
                    contractor                               independent engineer


          technical and contractual relationship
          technical relationship

we have a positive effect

multiple benefits emerge from the construction and operation of the project
both for the economy, as well as the environment and society. after completion
of the construction works, two modern and safe motorways, of international
specifications, will be available to greek drivers. some of the benefits they will
offer are listed below:

•     construction quality in combination with optimum maintenance services
•     improvement of safety and minimisation of risks
•     minimisation of required travel time
•     high level of services
•     enhanced environmental protection
•     enhanced growth prospects and employment opportunities

additional information for each of the above categories is presented in the related
sections of the report.


    • we raise the standards for greek transportation
    • we contribute to the country’s development and progress
    • we give a new dimension to road safety and service


our social «product»

as a result of the operation of nea odos, on an annual (or monthly) basis, salaries
and benefits are paid to employees (either at the headquarters, or the various areas
of the company’s operation), payments are made to various suppliers, investments
are made, insurance benefits and taxes are paid to the state, and payments are
also made to financing parties. all of the above are the «social product» of nea
odos, which in 2014 reached above 333 million euro.


    we generate value and contribute to the country’s prosperity.
    the social product of nea odos was 333 million euro in 2014




                                        13

                   annual contribution to social development –         2013             2014
                      “social product” (in thousand euro)
                payments to suppliers (except materials and           104,397.81        46,125.87
                intercompany transactions)
                employee salaries and benefits (including               7,759.40         7,470.85
                insurance contributions)
                total payments to state bodies (taxes paid)             7,195.01        11,644.92

“”              payments to providers of capital                        5,468.42         6,331.45
                company investments                                     5,452.03       262,190.97
                total “social product”                                130,272.67       333,764.06


                 financial performance

                 during 2014, both net sales and the total income of nea odos recorded an
                 increase, while operating cost recorded a significant decrease. the company’s
                 financial information for years 2013 and 2014 is presented below.

                  financial information (in thousand euro)                    2013              2014
     net sales                                                                 55,553.14             72,665.9
     other operating income                                                          42.16             50.07
     revenue from financial investments                                               1.93            764.55
     total income                                                              55,597.24            73,480.52
     operating cost                                                            43,526.50            27,885.41
     employee salaries and benefits                                             6,419.85             6,162.73
     payments to providers of capital                                           5,468.42             6,331.45
     net profit / (loss) before taxes                                          98,002.47        (48,211.85)
     net profit / (loss) after taxes                                           98,002.47        (48,211.85)
     net profit / (loss) per share (in euro)                                          1.31             (0.64)
     total payments to state bodies (in thousand euro) (taxes paid)             7,195.01            11,644.92
     company investments                                                        5,452.03        262,190.97
     equity                                                                    268,239.8            302,185.7
     total liabilities                                                         115,638.5            175,719.7
     total assets (in million euro)                                           388,425.00            513,608.3

                 corporate governance

                 strong corporate governance is at the core of our philosophy regarding the
                 company’s sustainable development and of society in general. at nea odos
                 we are implementing an integrated corporate governance framework,
                 demonstrating respect and responsibility towards the company’s shareholders
                 and its other stakeholders.
                 the highest governance body of the company is its 10-member board of
                 directors.

                 we implement a zero tolerance policy towards corruption and our standing
                 objective is a responsible business operation on a daily basis.




                                                      14

                                composition of board of directors (31.12.2014)

s/n            capacity                         name                  gender        age group           nationality
 1    bod chairman                emmanouil moustakas                 male            31-45             greek
 2    vice-chairman of the bod andres sacristan martin                male            31-45             spanish
 3    ceo                         emmanouil vrailas                   male            46-60             greek
 4    member                      antonio de la llama                 male            46-60             spanish
 5    member                      juan ramon perez                    male            46-60             spanish       “”
 6    member                      sofia dimitrakopoulou               female          46-60             greek
 7    member                      maria isabel hernandez              female          31-45             spanish
 8    member                      vasileios delikaterinis             male            61+               greek
 9    member                      alexandros iosif aligizakis         male            61+               greek
10    member                      christos zaribas                    male            61+               greek


             responsible procurement

             the end products and services enjoyed by the users of nea odos are the result of a
             cooperation between various different parties (suppliers) and the company. these are
             all part of the supply chain of nea odos. a successful management strategy of this
             supply chain is a significant competitive advantage for any organisation, because it
             contributes to the sustainable development both of the organisation and the supplier,
             offering in parallel the desirable level of quality to the customer.

             nea odos treats its suppliers as valuable partners, and makes sure that value is
             generated for all related parties through the partnerships it develops. taking into
             consideration that the quality of the services provided to motorway users depends on
             the reliability and the quality of the services provided by suppliers and partners, nea
             odos has in place a special process to evaluate its suppliers on an annual basis.

             our supply chain
             the company cooperates with various subcontractor teams in order to serve its
             operating, administrative and other needs. the construction of ionia odos and the
             maintenance of pathe have been assigned to a third party (contractors). therefore,
             materials and supplies for construction and maintenance are provided by third
             parties, while the main volume of the materials supplied by the company is related to
             the maintenance of the electrical and mechanical facilities of the motorway.

             the main teams of the nea odos suppliers are:
             • the manufacturer
             • other suppliers employed exclusively in the construction of the project
             • contractors mainly involved in the maintenance of pathe (maintenance, snow
                 removal, maintenance of e/m installations, etc.)
             • various planners
             • suppliers of consumables who contribute to the maintenance of the motorway
                 and the function of management teams
             • service providers supporting the company’s administrative management.
                 (attorneys, certified auditors, etc.)
             • suppliers of other consumables not related to the maintenance, construction and
                 operation of the motorway

             information related to the selection and support of suppliers from the local communities
             are provided in section «cooperation with local communities - social contribution».




                                                        15

      3. corporateτου
     προστασία         περιβάλλοντος
                   social responsibility
                                  our approach
             nea odos puts corporate social responsibility (csr) at the forefront of its
“”           priorities, recognising the need for protection of the environment, respect for
             local communities and contribution to the country’s sustainable development.

             the csr actions and practices that we are planning and implementing, are
             an integral part of our long-term strategic planning and are treated as an
             investment towards improving our relations with everything affecting or affected
             by the operation and activities of our company.

             our main objective is to generate long-term benefits and added value for all
             stakeholders, through the global and integrated management of both its
             business practices and their effects on the national economy, the environment
             and the quality of life of the public.

             we therefore continue to work aiming at the development of an administrative
             and operating philosophy, based on the promotion of sustainable development
             in the sector of road transportation. in this context, we aim to minimise any
             potential negative effects from the company’s operation, and to have all our
             social partners recognise nea odos as a company that actively promotes
             responsibility in its industry.

             the main pillars of the management framework of our responsibility are:




                                                 care for all our
                                                   employees            qu
                                      e                                     ali
                               o f th t                              im and ty as
                             n       n                                 p
                        c tio me ted                                se rove con ura
                                                                                    s
                      e
                    ot ro ra t n                                      rvi m sta nc
                  pr envi nteg men                                       ce en nt e
                                                                           sw to
                            d i ge           l                                e o f th
                       an ana our enta                                           ffe e
                            m o m t f                                               r
                                       on in
                                   vir otpr
                                                                                coop ort of lo the




                                 n
                                                                                com s of pre s




                                e fo
                                                                                 supp ities in e
       of m d safety




                                                                                  area nea od
          user ay
       the r re for




                                                                                     mun

                                                                                     erat
                                                                                      of
            otorw
               s




                                                                                          ion a al
            oa




                                            main pillars
           ca




                                                                                               nd
                                                                                               senc

                                                                                               c




                                  of the management framework of
                                                                                                 o




                                  sustainable development issues




                                                       16

corporate responsibility material issues

in 2014 we identified, defined and prioritised the material corporate social
                                                                                       “”
responsibility issues, in order to effectively meet the challenges and the critical
issues that arise from the operation of our company.

we followed the guidelines of the global reporting initiative organisation
(version g4):
1. the corporate responsibility aspects and issues were recorded, as well as
    their subsequent effects, related to the company’s operation, the strategic
    planning and its separate divisions and productive stages, the relationship
    of the aspects and issues with the ultimate objective of sustainable
    development was analysed.
2. the degree of risk for each of these aspects and issues was then determined,
    using as criteria the smooth operation and development of the company’s
    activities, as well as the potential effects (positive and/or negative) they may
    have on all social partners.
3. the separate corporate responsibility aspects were grouped into
    high, medium and low priority, and emphasis was put on recording our
    performance, the practices we follow and our goals in managing most
    critical issues.

we aspire to implement the specific procedure on a regular basis, considering
potential challenges and trends emerging from the company’s internal or
external environment. we also intend to expand this procedure, by including
the opinion of the company’s stakeholder groups, regarding the significance of
separate issues. the opinion of stakeholders will thus play an active role in the
management of these issues.




                                        17

                                          based on the procedure that was implemented, the issues that emerged with the
                                          highest priority are:


                                   corporate responsibility dimension            critical issues of corporate responsibility of nea odos
                                   financial effectiveness                      company's financial growth
                                                                                indirect financial impacts
                                   environmental management                     fuel consumption
                                                                                energy consumption in buildings
“”                                                                              energy consumption due to road lights
                                                                                waste management
                                                                                noise
                                                                                air pollution
                                                                                biodiversity
                                                                                compliance with environmental laws
                                                                                environmental evaluation of suppliers
                                                                                environmental grievance mechanisms
                                   social prosperity                            offer of employment
                                                                                meritocratic recruitment procedures
                                                                                training
                                                                                development and performance management
                                                                                equal opportunities and diversity
                                                                                non-discrimination
                                                                                occupational health and safety
                                                                                safety of users
                                                                                suitability of signage




                                                                                                       noise
                                                                                                  safety
                                                                                  suitability of users                    company's
                                                                                  of signage                               financial
                                                                       environmental                                        growth
                                                                         grievance           compliance
     importance for stakeholders




                                                                        mechanisms               with               energy
                                                                                            environmental        consumption
                                                                                                 laws          due to road lights
                                                                              biodiversity         fuel
                                                                             occupational      consumption
                                              air pollution                     health
                                                                              and safety              training
                                                          equal                          meritocratic
                                                       opportunities                     recruitment
                                                            and                           procedures
                                                         diversity              development         supplier
                                              offer of             waste      and performance    environmental
                                            employment         management       managemen         assessment
                                            indirect      non-
                                           financial discrimination
                                           impacts
                                          energy
                                      consumption
                                       in buildings



                                                                       effect on company success

                                                                                     18

     “”




19

                             4. the stakeholders
                                 of nea odos
              nea odos recognises as a stakeholder every person, group of persons or organisation
              that is in any way affected by its works and activities, either due to direct financial
“”            interest (participation and investment in the projects or competitive placement), or
              due to institutional capacity, or through employment relations and customer-service
              provider relations.


              main stakeholders                            secondary stakeholders
              •    employees                               •   wider public
              •    customers (users)                       •   other state agencies (fire department,
              •    local communities -                         ekav - national first aid center, police
                   municipalities                              and civil protection)
              •    shareholders & management               •   agencies / associations / academic
              •    ngos / activists/ lobbies                   community (ntua, technical chamber of
              •    ministry of infrastructure                  greece, hellenic institute of transportation
              •    motorway traffic police                     engineers, asecap, irf)
              •    financial services firms                •   media
              •    partners & suppliers                    •   other motorway concessions




                                                               communication mechanisms       expectations/main issues
                                                               • meetings between staff and   • development of skills/career
                        communication mechanisms                 management representatives     prospects
                        • meetings                             • satisfaction surveys         • regular co mmunication between
                        • regular reporting                    • e mailcorrespondence           employeesmanagement
                          (management reports)                 • prospectuses                 • infor ming e mployees about
                                                                                                organisational changes and
                        expectations/main issues                                                anything related to the company
                        • financial performance                                               • e mphasis on health and safety
                        • new projects and development                                        • additional benefits and
                          of new activities/services                                            remuneration system


     communication mechanisms              management
     • ongoing communication
     • meetings                       financial                                                employees
     • 3 and 6-month reports          institutions
     expectations/main issues
     • comprehensive information on company
       performance
                                                                          κύρια ενδιαφερόμενα                     
     • financial effectiveness
     • consistency in its financial obligations                            suppliers/                    motorway
     • compliance with laws and good                                       associates                    traffic police
       governance
     • risk management and company growth
       prospects                           communication   expectations/main issues      communication      expectations/
                                       mechanisms       • transparency in                mechanisms         main issues
                                       • procurement      procurements                   • scheduled and • compliance with
                                         department     • meritocracy in selecting         unscheduled       laws
                                       • ongoing          suppliers and partners           meetings with • support to traffic
                                         communication • co mpliance with agreed           traffic police    police work
                                         with partners    partnership terms                representatives • cooperation and
                                         in the         • transparent                    • drills            consultation
                                         implementation   governance
                                         of projects      mechanisms
                                       • procurement
                                         handbooks



                                                               20

                                   communication & consultation

                                   all stakeholders have expectations and express requests, which we respond to with
                                   consistency, based on our three core values: sustainable development, environmental
                                                                                                                                                        “”
                                   awareness and financial stability and prosperity. nea odos is constantly investing
                                   in the two-way communication and consultation with all critical stakeholder groups,
                                   because it recognises their decisive contribution to prioritising our short-term and
                                   long-term goals, cultivating mutually beneficial relationships of trust and respect, as
                                   well as the valid and timely identification of issues affecting our smooth functioning.
                                   with this conviction, in 2014 we mapped as accurately as possible all stakeholders,
                                   and divided them into main and secondary, on the criterion of each one’s special
                                   significance in the strategic development of nea odos.

                                   the 2014 corporate responsibility report demonstrates and highlights our decision
                                   to further broaden the information provided to the public and open a new channel
                                   of communication with stakeholders in relation to the economic, environmental
                                   and social performance and contribution to the sustainable development of road
                                   transportation.




                 communication               expectations/main issues               communication mechanisms
                 mechanisms                  • sa fe passage quality,               • monthly board of directors meetings
                 • customer service            satisfaction and reliability         • regular reporting
                   department                • i mmediate response to               • company website
                 • customer satisfactionν      incidents
                   surveys                   • i mmediate response                  expectations/main issues
                 • co mplaint handling         to requests or                       • financial perfor mance
                   department                  complaints                           • regular and correct information/
                 • awareness campaigns       • private data                           reporting
                 • company website             protection                           • effective governance mechanisms
                 • emergency number                                     share­holders


                                                                                                    communication mechanisms
                 customers (users)                                                                  • meetings with representatives of local
                                                                                                      communities
                                                                                                    • consultation with local associations and bodies

                     μέρη                                                                             of residents
                                                                                                    • partnership in volunteer actions

                                                                                                    expectations/main issues
                                 ministry of infrastructure                   local com­mu­nities •   support of local bodies and local
                                                                                                      governance
                                                                                                    • sponsorships - charity actions and
                                                                                                      social investments
                                                                                                    • comprehensive information
                 communication                expectations/                                           regarding effects from the company’s
                 mechanisms                   main issues                                             operation on a local level and
                 • events and fora of the     • law-abiding policy - strict                           measures to address them
                   transportation sector        compliance with greek and                           • support of local economy – indirect
                 • consultation with            european laws                                         financial effects
                   institutions               • support of programs and initiatives
                                                of the ministry at the level of
                                                national transportations
                                              • participation in public dialogue on
                                                road transportation




                                                                                    21

                                    5. road safety
                     promoting responsible driving behaviour

                     more than 1 million people lose their lives every year in traffic accidents
                     across the world. international organisations like the world bank and
“”                   the united nations, a number of global non-profit organisations, the eu,
                     as well as every state separately have recognised the critical nature and
                     multifaceted consequences of this sad reality.

     nea odos s.a., with a sense of responsibility towards all drivers and the broader community,
     has set the promotion of road safety at the core of its philosophy and operation.

                     the number of traffic accidents annually is particularly high in greece.
                     our country, for a number of years now, has been ranking in the negative
                     2nd and 3rd place in europe regarding the number of traffic accidents
                     in relation to the population. in fact, according to the estimates of the
                     hellenic institute of transportation engineers, the financial and social
                     cost of this sad reality exceeds 3 billion  annually. road safety is
                     therefore a truly major national issue for greece.

                     the challenge is enormous, because many factors play a role in road
                     safety. modern infrastructure, policing principles as well as prevention-
                     management of accidents, training and mentality of drivers. every factor
                     may possibly, even if all others are at exceptional levels, derail the final
                     objective. this is why at nea odos we believe that road safety must be an
                     area of cooperation and mutual commitment for all.

                     we, on our side, with a sense of responsibility towards all drivers and
                     the broader community, have set the promotion of road safety at the core
                     of our philosophy and operation. combining optimal daily maintenance
                     work on motorways with the provision of quality care services, we strive
                     to contribute as much as possible to travel safety for all drivers. for
                     example, we mention that in the years that we have been responsible for
                     the maintenance and operation of specific parts of the pathe motorway,
                     the accident rates have dropped by 62.6%. this percentage tangibly
                     proves that the minimisation of accidents through targeted practices and
                     interventions and the constant improvement of our approach in safety
                     risk management are the main priority for nea odos and its associated
                     partners.




                     since 2010, nea odos has distributed 1.733 million leaf-
                     lets to passing drivers, aiming to promote safety on the
                     road and responsible driving behaviour.


                                                         22

            road safety is everyone’s responsibility

apart from our diverse activities within a context of infrastructure and
training, at nea odos, we believe that educating drivers, together with
providing correct and complete information, is the most critical factor
                                                                                “”
for accident prevention. we thus strive to contribute in changing the
mentality of motorway users towards a safer and less aggressive
behaviour on the road, which in addition to road safety, also promotes
sustainable mobility.

in this context, our company implements various activities focusing on
road safety, ultimately aspiring to cultivate correct driving behaviour,
with knowledge and skills that can significantly contribute to reducing
traffic accidents. these actions include the regular distribution of leaflets
to passing drivers with:
• general advise for safe driving
• references to special issues, such as fuel saving through changing
     driving behaviour, driving in tunnels or wet or snow covered road.




nea odos actions to raise awareness of drivers

                                   2010
•   leaflet for driving safety services & road map (100,000 items)

                                   2012
•   christmas leaflet with driving safety advise (100,000 items)
•   easter leaflet with driving safety advise (100,000 items)
•   «day of courtesy on the road» leaflet (100,000 items)*
•   leaflet with instructions for safe driving in tunnels (100,000 items)

                                   2013
•   «day of courtesy on the road» leaflet (100,000 items)*
•   christmas leaflet with driving advise (110,000 items)
•   informational leaflet about the emergency 1075 number (90,000
    items)

                                   2014
•   leaflet about the correct use of child seats (200,000 items)
•   leaflet with advise for driving during extreme weather conditions
    (350,000 items)
•   «day of courtesy on the road» leaflet (100,000 items)*
•   easter leaflet with driving advise (183,000 items)
•   christmas leaflet with driving advise (100,000 items)

* in cooperation with the hellenic research and educational institute for
   road safety and the prevention and reduction of traffic accidents – rsi



                                    23

     care for user safety

     in order to protect the users of the motorways managed by the company, nea odos
                                                                         flyer_nea odos_kao_a_pr.pdf   3/26/15   12:07:39 pm




     takes a series of measures both during construction and during
     daily operation.

     construction
     •     geometrical design of road
     •     traffic studies
“”   •     safety signage studies

     operation & management:
     •     monitoring & analysing accidents
     •     modification and optimisation according to accident data
     •     instant information of users through variable message signs
           - vms
     •     signage for traffic arrangement (tunnels, bypasses, etc.)




         our mission is to offer the highest levels of road safety in combi-
         nation with top quality services.


                      επειδή η ζωή δεν είναι παιχνίδι,
                     φροντίζουµε για την ασφαλειά σας!
                                                                  καλό πάσχα!




         we pursue excellence in the operation and maintenance of our
         motorways, as well as the support of drivers.




         for the period that nea odos is responsible for the mainte-
         nance and operation of specific parts of the pathe motorway,
         accident rates have dropped by 62.6%.

                                            24

traffic management

proper traffic management leads to smooth and safe operation of the motorway.
coordination is carried out by nea odos’ well-equipped traffic management center
(tmc) in schimatari which operates 24/7, 365 days a year.

specialised scientists - traffic engineers, with the help of state-of-the-art
equipment analyse traffic data, while the well trained personnel coordinates the
fleet of the 24-hour road safety patrols.
                                                                                          “”
 operation and maintenance

 a motorway is like a living organism that works 24/7, 365 days a year. the
 operations & maintenance departments are the heart of this organism, meeting
 all needs, always placing emphasis on safety and quality customer service.

 the main responsibilities of the operation & maintenance departments are:

 •    controlling and monitoring traffic;
 •    managing emergencies;
 •    24-hour patrols on the motorway;
 •    scheduling and managing the necessary works;
 •    good cooperation with collaborating agencies of the state, like the traffic
      police, fire department, national emergency aid center (ekav), etc.
 •    assurance of the daily and smooth operation of toll stations, aimed at the
      speedier and safer passage of each user;
 •    a significant number of routine tasks, such as road cleaning.

 the critical field of maintenance also includes:

 1.   various daily inspections.
 2.   scheduled and unscheduled repair works.
 3.   maintenance works related to the company’s fleet and facilities.
 4.   removal of snow during winter period. the company issues every year a
      special winter maintenance program, analysed in a next chapter.

 the company’s business planning is updated annually with the provision of high
 quality services to the users of the road network as the ultimate goal. at the core
 stands the principle of prevention: all necessary actions are taken preventively,
 in order to prevent any undesirable incident.




the role of signage

especially important for road safety, the signage of motorways is always in strict
compliance with the provisions of the applicable laws and the relevant regulatory
framework, while it arises from special signage studies that are prepared with the
purpose of minimising accidents.

after the initial installation however, another significant factor is the inspection of
signage. all the mechanics working in the motorway maintenance department,
as well as all the drivers of the 24-hour road safety patrols of nea odos, are

                                         25

                                  trained in order to have full knowledge of the signage plans. in the context
                                  of the preventive and corrective maintenance schedule, all signage on the
                                  motorway is inspected and supervised daily, regardless of which party placed
                                  them (contractor, maintenance contractor or other company department) and
                                  interventions/corrective actions are taken where deemed necessary.


                                  there were no incidents of non-compliance with the laws and the
                                  regulations in 2014 as concerns the safety of users, signage on
“”                                the roads managed by nea odos or other parameters of our daily
                                  operation.




                                  management of emergency incidents

                                  the nea odos staff is suitably trained and equipped with the necessary gear
                                  in order to handle emergencies. emergencies are situations requiring a broad
                                  range of actions, from the removal of debris created by a traffic accident, to
                                  dealing with natural disasters.

                                  aiming to provide a comprehensive range of services, the company has
                                  planned and offers to the motorway users the following services for dealing
                                  with emergencies:

                                  •   a 4-digit emergency telephone number (1075) that drivers can call either
                                      from their cell phone or from the emergency phones placed along the
          1075                        motorway or the tunnels.
     emergency telephone number
                                  •   motorway traffic management centre and tunnel traffic management
                                      centre equipped with cutting-edge control systems which ensure safe
                                      circulation and address all incidents in a timely and effective manner.
                                  •   24 hour road safety patrols that continuously monitor the entire length of the
                                      motorway. in cooperation with the traffic management centre, the 4-digit
                                      emergency telephone number and the competent state services, nea odos
                                      patrol units are always there to assist drivers.
                                  •   emergency phones located along the motorway where drivers can directly
                                      contact the traffic management centres at no cost.
                                  •   free road assistance to immobilized vehicles, thus ensuring the removal of
                                      the immobilized vehicles from the motorway and their transport to a safe
                                      place.



                                                                        26

              patrols & safety inspections
              regular traffic on the motorway and provide assistance for an effective response
              to emergencies, the most important of which are the following:

              •   instant intervention patrolling
              •   identification of emergencies
              •   removal of foreign objects from the road
              •   assistance to immobilised vehicles
              •   signage of emergencies
              •
              •
                  assistance for removal of immobilised vehicles
                  support to competent emergency state services
                                                                                                          “”
              •   assistance to fire extinguishing, until the fire department intervenes
              •   escorts for oversized freight if deemed necessary
              •   escorts for vehicles with hazardous loads through tunnels, if deemed
                  necessary

              the role of road safety patrols is equally important in the inspections of motorway
              infrastructure and equipment, with the aim of assuring their technical adequacy
              and identifying potential risks for users. it is worth noting here that the above
              special patrols take place six times a week, with the use of a low-speed vehicle
              that doesn’t obstruct traffic flow, while occasionally there may be need for a
              safety patrol on foot by a specialised employee.

              in combination with road safety patrols, there are safety inspections every 7
              days (once a week) by trained technical staff with a low-speed vehicle, while
              again there may occasional need for a safety patrol on foot by a specialised
              employee.

              moreover, and in addition to the above, detailed road inspections are carried out
              at the order of any competent state service.

              it is worth noting that all safety inspections are carried out during non-peak
              periods, in order to minimise any obstruction to traffic, while at least one safety
              inspection a month is carried out during night time.




in 2014 the road safety patrol cars covered a distance 5
                                                                                                75
                                                                                              10
times the distance between earth and moon, in order to be
there for all drivers, inspect the infrastructure and respond to                                     x5
any incident.



                                                     27

     extreme weather conditions
     in order to address crises due to extreme weather conditions, such as e.g.
     snowfall and/or ice on the road, specific procedures are followed in order to
     prevent unscheduled disruptions to traffic. the contribution by the company
     management’s departments, and their coordination, ensure the effective
     prevention, response and remedy of any problems that may arise.

     prevention
“”   in order to address adverse/extreme weather conditions, nea odos operates
     preventively by taking the following regular steps:
     • communication with police, fire department, ekav and other external
         bodies.
     • development and constant communication of safety and emergency
         intervention procedures to the company’s competent personnel.
     • regular and suitable training of the involved personnel.
     • ensure human and material resources for all necessary services in case
         of crisis, such as the planning, maintenance, management of incidents and
         response to them, as well traffic management.

     response
     the timely and effective response in extreme weather conditions is of critical
     importance to prevent any disruptions to the traffic. this is achieved through:
     • early detection and confirmation of incidents and other events.
     • notification/information of the police, fire department, ekav, collection
         units and other agencies if deemed necessary.
     • mobilisation of patrols for quick intervention.
     • implementation of safety and intervention procedures in emergencies.
     • contribution of the police with the purpose of safely managing traffic on the
         motorway and maintaining a safe environment for motorway users.
     • restoration of normal traffic conditions.
     • handling of media and commercial issues (service stations, toll stations).

     restoration
     corrective actions for restoration of the motorway are important both for the
     smooth traffic of users and the restoration of the road to its operating condition
     before the occurrence of the extreme weather conditions. restoration is
     achieved through:
     • the assessment and implementation of replacements and/or repairs to the
         motorway infrastructure or equipment;
     • consultation with the police and other authorities;
     • active support, to the extent possible, for the physical and psychological
         rehabilitation of the company’s personnel involved in the emergency.




                                            28

special winter maintenance program

especially during winter time when adverse weather conditions usually occur
and in order to ensure the uninterrupted and safe operation of the motorway, the
company is implementing a special winter maintenance program that provides:
1. supply of 3,500 tons of salt and continuous supply during winter time.
2. maintenance of 42 snow removal machines.
3. cleaning of manholes and drainage infrastructure.
4. salt filling stations.
                                                                                   “”
5. improved horizontal and vertical reflective signage.
6. alert exercises with the involved bodies.

the goal of nea odos is to provide effective and efficient winter motorway
maintenance services and to allow:
• safe vehicle traffic.
• control of delays due to extreme weather conditions.
• safe and uninterrupted performance of maintenance works.




                                      29

“”




     30

            6. quality services
quality is our top priority

faithful to our vision for a top quality and upgraded service of our motorway
users, and with a sense of the social responsibility inherent with our industry,
we seek to constantly upgrade the quality of our services.
                                                                                   “”
to this end, we implement a quality management system, certified in accordance
with the iso 9001:2008 international standard requirements, with the following
goals:
• increased satisfaction of the customer - user of our services, through their
     constant improvement.
• compliance of the services provided with the terms and strict specifications
     of the concession agreement.
• minimisation or even elimination of cases of deficient compliance with
     these specifications.
• improvement of quality procedures and maximising of their effectiveness.

nea odos is committed to the quality of its services, always striving to evolve
them, based on innovation and the constant improvement of the performance
of its technical and human resources. the quality management system of nea
odos is constantly developing, integrating the various needs of the users and
the company’s partners, with a goal to satisfy the former and increase the
efficiency of the latter.




                                      31

     customer-driven approach

     nea odos, putting at the core of its values respect for people and the environment,
     due to the social and developmental nature of its work is committed to
     implementing a people-centred quality management system. our company,
     throughout the development and maintenance of the motorway network included
     in the concession agreement, puts clear emphasis on the needs and the service of
     the customer/user and the alignment of the quality management system with the
     terms of the concession agreement.
“”   the company’s management ensures through constant inspections and upgrade
     of the services, that the agreed and legal obligations towards the stakeholders
     included in the concession agreement, i.e. the greek state, the european union,
     the competent authorities and users, are strictly and without fail met.

     at nea odos we approach our development policy, the viability and sustainability
     of the projects and the protection of the environment, with man at the centre.
     our goals and commitment through the years has been to provide maximum
     satisfaction and services to the users and/or our customers.

     satisfied customers
     nea odos always links its business strategy with accountability towards the users-
     customers of the motorways it manages. financial growth can turn into sustainable
     growth only when it recognises the importance of corporate social responsibility and
     the satisfaction of the public.

     the effort to improve the services we provide to passing drivers is a continuous
     process. to this end, we readjust and evaluate our services, with the aim of keeping
     motorways at the safest possible level, speedily responding to emergencies and
     effectively operating all of our company’s departments.

     what do you believe? opinion survey
     a key principle for nea odos is communication with customers and the social groups
     that are affected by our operation and services. all the information we collect helps
     us and encourages us to develop our practices to meet the demands of our work
     as effectively as possible. the interested parties judge and evaluate our services,
     and their opinion is taken into consideration when formulating our sustainable
     development strategy. in this context, nea odos collects and processes critical
     information about the satisfaction of its customers and the degree of coverage of
     their demands and expectations.


      more than 90% of the persons surveyed have a favourable opinion
      of nea odos, expressing their satisfaction with the various services
      we offer.




                                             32

          in 2014 an opinion survey on the services of nea odos was carried out on a sample
          of approximately 3,000 drivers. the results of the survey are the real reward of our
          efforts: more than 90% of the persons surveyed have a favourable opinion of our
          entire personnel, expressing their satisfaction with the various services we offer.

          more specifically:
          • 99% are satisfied by the personnel working at the toll stations;
          • 91% report their satisfaction with the cleanliness of the motorways, while
          • 92% are satisfied with the services of the safety patrols, the 4-digit emergency
             phone number and the call centre of nea odos.                                                    “”
          customer satisfaction survey

    toll station personnel                                                                       not at all

                                                                                                 a bit
    motorway cleanliness
                                                                                                 quite
  road safety patrol cars                                                                        very

emergency number – 1075

customer care call center

                             0        20         40          60         80         100


          recommendations for the improvement of services | submittal of complaints
          in addition to any surveys carried out on the motorway, nea odos, a believer in
          the value of a two-way communication with customers, as a primary component
          of corporate responsibility, encourages drivers to note any omission or submit
          any question to the competent department. the user of our services may find
          information or submit any complaints or recommendations at our customer
          service number at 22950-26900 as well as via e-mail, at customercare@neaodos.gr.




                                                  33

     protection of privacy - safety of private data of users
     we want the two-way relationship we try to build daily with our users to be based on
     the principles of private data protection.

     we strictly observe everything required by the hellenic data protection authority,
     while we are constantly making investments to upgrade the information management
     and recording systems.

“”   at customer service we record all calls with the purpose of constantly improving the
     quality of our services, and we keep the relevant files for no more than 15 days, while
     the relevant message can be heard during all calls.

     at the toll stations, as well as along the length of the motorway, wherever there
     are cameras installed, mainly with the purpose of traffic regulation, identification
     of emergencies and user safety, a number of related information signs have been
     installed.

     the closed circuit television (cc tv) and computer screens at the control centers of
     the traffic management center, provide access to information and visual material, the
     management of which is government by the data protection law, and the relevant
     «instruction for cc tv» of the hellenic data protection authority. moreover, nea odos
     strictly prohibits the use of cc tv by the staff for observing incidents on the road which
     are not related to its safety and smooth operation.

     at the same time, the maintenance staff is responsible for managing access to the
     control room, and the operators of the traffic control center are responsible for
     protecting the confidentiality of the collected visual information. according to the
     terms of the relevant contract, nea odos reserves the right to assign the supervision
     of the motorways to third persons (natural or legal), as «processors,» however the
     «processor» is subject to the same data protection obligations.

     in any case, in compliance with the provisions of the relevant laws, the users of the
     road may always exercise the right to access the information that concerns them and
     to object to the use of that information.




                                                34

toll fares

ongoing investments are required in order to maintain the quality
characteristics of any contemporary motorway. paying toll rates is
one of the most effective methods for financing the construction and
maintenance, as well as for constant improvement of our cutting-edge
motorways and the services offered.
                                                                                “”
at this stage, and in accordance with the institutional framework of
nea odos, three toll zones are identified:

•   the first toll zone includes metamorfosi i/c to schimatari i/c with a
    total length of 51km.
•   the second zone includes schimatari i/c to martino i/c with a total
    length of 59.6 km.
•   the third zone includes martino i/c to the end of the motorway in
    skarfia.

the toll rate per station is determined as follows:
• at each frontal toll station and per direction, the toll rate is determined
    based on the total length of the zone to which it belongs.
• at the exit from lateral toll stations, the toll rate corresponds to the
    length travelled from the beginning of the zone where the station
    belongs, up to the station. in the lateral toll stations, the toll rate
    corresponds to the length of the road to be travelled by the user from
    the toll station to the end of the zone.

under no circumstances can any user who has paid the toll fee at the
frontal station pay again at a lateral station in the same zone, during
the same journey. respectively, under no circumstances can any user
who has paid the toll fee at the lateral station pay again at a frontal
station in the same zone, during the same journey.




                                    35

             7. human resources
     care for our people

     our people constitute the driving force and most decisive factor for our
“”   company’s success.

     the nea odos personnel combine high levels of expertise, valuable experience
     and specialisation, especially as regards the special characteristics of motorway
     operation and management.

     top priority for the management and human resources department is to create
     an excellent working environment placing emphasis on personnel safety, their
     continuous career and the development of their talents.

     by recognising the contribution of each employee in the development and daily
     operation of nea odos, we reward effort, discover talents, cultivate skills and
     support the growth of our people.

     by treating the motorway like a living organism, we see the company’s personnel
     as the cells that maintain it and care for its smooth operation and the immediate
     response to any incident. we therefore care for all the members of our team,
     appreciating and taking into consideration their separate different views and
     promoting internal dialogue as a constructive method of effective cooperation.

     we support gender equality in practice: 49% of our people are women.

     the company’s entire personnel for 2014 was 376 employees, with 49% of
     them women, and 48% aged 26-35 years old. the company recruited 60 new
     employees during the year, and 32 of our employees left.




                                           36

                                                                              “”




 we support gender equality in practice: 49% of our people are
 women.

         total figures of human resources         2012       2013      2014
 men                                               159           160   191
 wemen                                             183           179   185
 total stuff                                       342           339   376
 leaves (e.g retirement, end of contract)          18%           4%     9%
 new hires                                          8%           3%    16%

distribution of human resources per geographical area
geographical area                                        total
attica                                                    44%
viotia                                                    17%
rest of greece                                            39%



                                       37

     equal opportunities and impartiality in recruitments
     equal treatment and the promotion of impartiality, avoiding any discriminations
     between the members of our staff, are our standard practice and permanent
     commitment. new employees are recruited by the company based on specific and
     established procedures, such as a personal interviews and skill and personality
     tests, that ensure the evaluation of all candidates on meritocratic criteria. the
     company’s policy is to employee capable people, suitable for each job.

“”   total new employee hires per age and geographical area (2014)
      νew employee hires           18-25           26-40         41-50            51+
     attica                          2             11              2               0
     viotia                          1              2              1               0
     rest of greece                  1             35              4               1
     total                           4             48              7               1

     employee turnover
                  employee turnover rates                       2013              2014
     incoming (total number of incoming / total                  3,2%             16%
     employees 31.12)
     outgoing (total number of outgoing / total                  4,1%             8,5%
     employees 31.12)


     at nea odos there is no difference and/or discrimination in terms of wages between
     men and women at the same rank. the company also prohibits any discrimination
     for any reason (gender, age, nationality, sexual orientation, political beliefs, etc.).

     proportion of gender per employee category
                                                                        number
                 employee category (2014)
                                                                men              women
     managers                                                   86%               14%
     top executives                                             67%               33%
     administrative staff                                       50%               50%
     labour staff                                               50%               50%


     remuneration and additional benefit system

     the company offers a range of additional benefits to its employees, beyond the
     minimum required by law. all full-time employees enjoy the benefits of a private
     medical care insurance program, while additional benefits also include mobile
     phone and car benefits for business travel, where deemed necessary, as well as
     a productivity bonus.


     evaluation of personnel performance

     on the foundation of honest communication, we have created a performance
     evaluation system which ensures the fair management of our human resources,
     the improvement of our team members and subsequently the achievement of the
     company’s targets.




                                              38

we evaluate on a regular (annual) basis the performance of our personnel,
recognising that such a process contributes to the investigation and appreciation
of employee achievements during the year, as well as the clarification of the
expectations and objectives that must be set for the future.

with regard to these expectations, the process        with honest communi-
specifies what must be achieved by using the          cation as our basis, we
objective goals and performance standards set
out by our strategy for each job and/or employee.     have created a perfor-
the manner they will be achieved in, as well as the
method for delivering the desirable results, arise
                                                      mance evaluation sys-          “”
by taking into consideration the skills displayed     tem, which ensures the
by employees daily. these skills must be in line      fair treatment of our
with the corporate values of nea odos and the
required behaviours at work.
                                                      human resources.

equally significant, performance evaluation is aimed at the professional growth
our employees. the goal is to map their prospects and determine specific actions
as well as the support which employees need in order to further improve their
performance. each employee and his or her superior reach an agreement on the
general sectors of development, as well as the actions that can be taken and the
responsibilities required.

based on the performance evaluation of 2012, the development prospects of 30
employees were further investigated, with the use of diagnostic evaluation tools
and interviews. moreover, detailed reports were written for the 10 jobs with
the greatest effect on the performance of the organisation, as well as personal
development plans.

personnel evaluation details

           evaluation indicators                 2012        2013        2014

total of evaluated employees                      313        309          326

men                                               139        152          152

women                                             174        157          174
evaluated employees with access to the
results of their evaluation (%)                  100%       100%         100%


in 2014, 84% of the personnel was evaluated and all of them (100%) were informed
about the results of their evaluation.
employees recruited after 31/07/2014 were not included because, based on the
performance management procedure they are not considered to have been with
the company a long enough period to assess their performance.


training and development of personnel skills

the education and continuous training of the personnel are a standing goal of the
company, treated as an investment with long-term benefits for the development of
nea odos and the improvement of the level of the services it offers.

in 2014, 70 employees participated at least once in some inter-company or external
training program, a percentage corresponding to 19% of the total personnel. it is
indicative that there are 1,650 man-hours of training in total, corresponding to
approximately 16 hours per worker.




                                        39

                   emphasis was also put on new technologies, issues of a financial nature,
                   management of human resources and development of leadership skills by
                   our executives, as well as special technical issues, health & safety issues and
                   corporate responsibility.

                   training data per employee category
                                          total training hours            average training hours/ category
        εmployee category
                                     men        women       total      men        women                total
“”   managers                           94        32         126        31.3         16                25.2
     top executives                     191       88         279        13.6        14.7                14
     administrative staff               552       397        949        14.5        15.9               15.1
     other staff                        280       16         296        15.6        16                 15.6
     total                          1,117         533       1,650       15.3        15.7               15.4


                   total participation and man-hours
                                          training indicators                               2014
                   trainings that took place (number of seminars, either in or                    19
                   outside the company)
                   total participants                                                            107
                   number of training man-hours (participations x hours)                    1,650


                   subjects of training programs and training hours
             distribution of training hours per subject               total hours of participants per category
     it / pc operation                                                                     144
     human resources management / leadership                                               858
     health and safety                                                                     264
     financial - accounting issues                                                         168
     corporate social responsibility - standards                                           16
     legal issues                                                                          10
     technical issues                                                                      95
     administrative support                                                                18
     other                                                                                 77
     total hours                                                                          1,650


                   employment contracts

                   the majority of the staff (373 employees) have full time employment contracts
                   and their employment relationship is governed by indefinite term contracts. the
                   company’s security personnel (9 people) are seasonal workers at nea odos
                   provided by third parties. the employees that belong to minorities (national or
                   other) are in total five (3 men and 2 women).




                                                           40

human resources per type of employment and employment contract and per gender

        categories of employment type                         2014
            & employment contract                  men      women        total
total personnel                                     191        185       376
indefinite term employment contract                 189        184       373
definite term employment contract                    2          1          3
full-time employment                                191        185       376        “”
part time employment                                            0
seasonal employees                                   1          8          9


in 2014, 13 female company employees requested and received parental leave. all
of them (100%) have returned to work and continue to be employed by the company,
from the date of their return to date. nea odos respects and strictly implements
the laws, and supports work-life balance.


health and safety at the workplace

the health and safety of all employees is for us a top priority and a decisive
factor in the effective daily operation of the company. from 2013 to date,
nea odos implements a health and safety management system,
certified according to the ohsas 18001: 2007 international standard
requirements. as a result, all of the company’s activities and all its
work spaces are governed by strict compliance with the national
laws and regulations for the protection of health and safety at the
workplace.

quarterly health & safety meetings
h&s meetings are organised and take place on a quarterly
basis, with the participation of the persons responsible from all
departments of the company, with the purpose of discussing pending
issues, identifying training needs and scheduling the related training units,
analysing new related issues that may have arisen, and discussing potential
recommendations of the occupational doctors and safety technicians for all of the
company’s activities and facilities.

more specifically, the following company officers participate in these meetings:
• the health & safety manager;
• the human resources manager and/or the coordinator of the specific
   department;
• the toll station manager;
• the head of tunnel safety;
• the traffic management systems manager and
• the head of the maintenance department

the issues that are discussed and the decisions reached during the quarterly
h&s meetings are recorded in corresponding minutes, in order to inform all
working groups through the participants, according to the procedure stipulated
by the management system implemented by the company. the health & safety
manager and the human resources manager inform company management in
order to take the appropriate administrative decisions.




                                      41

     	  




                                    health & safety policy

“”   nea odos s.a. is committed to meeting the highest health & safety specifications, aiming
     at providing and maintaining a safe and healthy working environment for personnel members,
     its customers and visitors, in all facilities or areas of operation under its responsibility.
     nea odos, in compliance with the requirements of the concession agreement and the
     applicable greek laws, implements health & safety management through:

            •   compliance with the legal and other requirements related to its subject
            •   compliance and achievement of h&s objectives
            •   promotion and compliance with safe labour activities
            •   provision of a safe, free of health hazards, environment for all its members and
                visitors, promoting the safe use of facilities and equipment
            •   information, guidance, training and monitoring to ensure that all personnel members
                discharge their daily duties, according to their powers, in a safe manner, recognising
                the risks connected with their activities
            •   involvement of members, customers and visitors in h&s issues and cooperation with
                them to reduce risks in the workplace and improve the implementation of h&s
                management and h&s performance
            •   seeking, when necessary, external expertise, in order to identify the risks related to
                health and safety, as well as the corrective and preventive measures required to
                address them
            •   regular inspections to monitor the adequacy and efficacy of the implemented
                systems, identification of risks and their elimination or management
            •   revision and amendment to this policy when deemed necessary.


     nea odos s.a., considers that health & safety are the personal and collective
     responsibility of management, personnel, associates and all member involved with its
     activities.




                                                                                  emmanouil vrailas
                                                                                             ceo



                                                                                   rev. 02-10/7/2014




     	  




                                                    42

direct communication between personnel and management
in the context of promoting direct communication between personnel and
management, the employees are officially represented in the h&s committee
(that covers all of the company’s operations) through the head/manager of each
department, who participate in the related quarterly meetings. essentially in
these meetings, the head of toll stations, the head of tunnel safety, the tolls
systems manager and the head of the maintenance department operate as
links between the employees at the motorway and the managerial executives
attending the meetings. these links are responsible for providing critical
information and data concerning the h&s conditions of the facilities and the
activities at each given moment, whereas they communicate all related h&s
                                                                                      “”
issues requiring the contribution and guidance of management.

reporting and investigation of health & safety incidents
in order to assure h&s at the workplace, a specific procedure is observed for
monitoring, reporting and investigating incidents, as provided for by the health
& safety management system implemented by the company. this procedure
includes all the actions necessary that are required by the applicable laws for
reporting incidents to public authorities, the involvement of the competent safety
technicians and occupational doctors, as well as the further investigation and
evaluation of each incident in order to analyse the reasons, take all the necessary
corrective and preventive actions and monitoring them in order to assure that they
will not appear again.

 health and safety indicators
indicators                                           2012       2013        2014

injury or accident rate of total staff (%)          1.52%       1.53%      0.85%

hours of absence / total work hours (%)             0.03%       0.33%      0.06%

accident frequency indicator                         8.66       8.87        5.17

accident severity indicator                         57.15      548.22      96.51

number of fatal accidents                              0          0          0

lost work days due to accident                        33         309         56

incidents without days of absence                      1          1          0

injury rate (ir)                                     1.73       1.77        1.03

lost day rate (ldr)                                 11.43      109.64      19.30

absence rate (ar)                                   76.54      718.89      128.91




                                         43

     8. caring for the environment
      environmental policy of nea odos
      nea odos s.a. recognises its responsibilities and obligations for
      the protection and preservation of the environment both for the
“”    current and future generations. the company bases its decisions
      on the environmental and social requirements of sustainable
      development. with the ultimate goal of harmoniously integrating
      the motorways with the environment and highlighting the wealth
      of each region, it is committed to constantly improve the methods
      it uses during the implementation of its activities.

      the implementation of effective environmental management at
      the entire concession project is an established corporate practice
      of nea odos. the potential environmental effects arising from the
      construction, operation and maintenance of the motorway, are
      recorded, analysed and measured in order to minimise the negative
      effects and eliminate any possible burden on the environment.

      the primary goal of nea odos is to constantly improve its
      environmental performance, which is achieved through:
      • meeting the legal obligations of the company and the obligations
         arising from the concession agreement
      • obtaining the necessary environmental licenses
      • implementation of action programs to prevent pollution
      • continuous education of workers
      • effective management of raw materials
      • reduction and the maximum possible minimisation of the
         waste produced by its activities through methods that utilise
         or recycle it

      continuously raising environmental awareness among employees
      and partners, as part of an environment oriented corporate culture,
      constitutes a permanent goal and principal value of nea odos.




      an extract from the environmental policy
      ...”the effective implementation of the company’s environmental pol-
      icy and the protection of the environment are achieved to a great ex-
      tent through the participation of all employees. for this reason, the
      company is organising on an annual basis trainings with the purpose
      of informing and raising the awareness of employees on environmen-
      tal management issues regarding the company’s activities and which
      are related to their daily responsibilities”...

                                      44

              our philosophy

              the harmonious integration of motorways in the environment and the constant
              effort to protect and promote every area’s wealth is one of the commitments of
              nea odos.                                                                                                                   “”
              the company effectively and substantially manages the environmental impact
              throughout the entire project, in accordance with the requirements of the
              concession agreement and the relevant legislation.


              environmental management system

              effective environmental management and the continuous improvement of the
              company’s environmental performance are achieved through the establishment
              of an environmental management system, which is implemented according
              to the requirements defined by the iso 14001 international standard. the
              company intends to certify the system according with the iso 14001 standard
              requirements in 2015.

              training / raising the environmental awareness of employees
              «continuously raising environmental awareness among employees and
              partners, as part of an environment oriented corporate culture, constitutes a
              permanent goal and principal value of nea odos».


              energy consumption

              fuel consumption for transportation needs
              fuel is consumed for the transportation needs of the company’s fleet (patrol
              cars and other vehicles). the company makes efforts for the efficient use of fuel
              through instructions for environmentally-friendly driving by the drivers of the
              various vehicles, while one of the criteria for the selection of the vehicles is their
              fuel efficiency.


         fuel consumption                                  2013                                            2014
          (transportation)                 quantity (lt)           energy (gj)             quantity (lt)          energy (mj)
diesel fuel                                  184,629                   6,720                  309,254                 11,257
petrol                                        57,876                   2,547                  22,736                   1,000
lpg                                               -                       -                      30                       1
natural gas                                       -                       -                      32                       2
total                                        242,505                   9,267                 332,052                  12,260
                             conversion coefficients: diesel fuel: 36,4 mj/lt, petrol: 44 mj/lt, lpg: 46 mj/lt, natural gas: 47.2 mj/lt




              nea odos, focusing on the effective protection of the environ-
              ment and the impleme ntation of its environmental programs,
              makes significant expenses and investments on an annual ba-
              sis. in 2014 the expenses and investments for the protection
              of the environment reached €584,000.

                                                             45

      reducing fuel consumption: change of fleet

      nea odos, with the purpose of reducing fuel consumption by the
      vehicles of its fleet, changed them in 2014 by combining financial
      efficiency with the protection of the environment. in total, 26 cars
      that used petrol were replaced with similar ones that use diesel fuel,
      leading to significant benefits concerning fuel consumption, gas
“”    emissions as well as the cost of transportation. this car replacement
      program led to saving 35,140 lt of petrol in 2014. these savings
      are expected to be significantly greater in the coming years, since
      the replacement of the vehicles was gradual, starting in mid-2014.
      therefore, the quantity of the petrol saved is expected to be much
      greater over the coming period.


     energy consumption for heating
     energy is consumed for the heating needs of the buildings and other facilities of
     the company. the main source of the energy used is electricity, while oil is used
     only in cases of generators, and as a result the quantity of heating oil consumed is
     small. specifically 4,000 lt of heating oil were consumed in total in 2014.


                                                                          2014
              fuel consumption (heating)
                                                        quantity (lt)           energy (mj)
     heating oil                                             4,000                    146
     total                                                   4,000                    146
                                                  * conversion coefficient for heating oil: 36.4 mj/lt




     consumption of electricity (in buildings and roads)
     in various locations of the motorways, as a result of the laws, regulations, studies
     and the concession agreement, the installation of road lighting systems has been
     deemed necessary, which cover their needs in energy either through consumption
     of electricity or solar energy.

     nea odos makes every possible effort for an efficient use of energy, and to this end
     it is planning the redesign of an administration building according to bioclimatic
     architecture specifications with parallel use of renewable sources of energy.


      the company has installed solar collectors at the 236 emergency
      roadside telephones (ert), and therefore energy from renewable
      sources of energy is consumed. the average electrical voltage of
      each ert is 1.5 w and therefore the annual savings thanks to the
      solar panels are 11,010.8 mj.




                                             46

                     energy consumption (buildings, toll                                2014
                        stations, road lighting, etc.)
                                                                     quantity (kw)             energy (mj)
                 electrical energy (total)                             16,906,849              60,864,656
                   electrical energy for street lighting                  5,128                  18,461
                   electrical energy for buildings                     16,901,721              60,846,196
                 solar energy (for erts)                                   236                     850
                 total                                                 33,813,934              60,865,506                        “”
                                                              *conversion coefficient for electricity: 3,6 mj/kwh



                 use of materials and supplies

                 the motorways managed by the company are constructed by third parties
                 (contractors and associates), which have undertaken all related activities.
                 therefore, no significant quantities of materials and supplies are required for the
                 direct operations of nea odos. in detail all materials and supplies used by the
                 company are presented in the following table.

                 use of materials and supplies
                                                                                                    2014
                                                          unit of             quantity /           supply by          non-
  categories              type of material
                                                       measurement             volume               external        renewable
                                                                                                    supplier         materials
                                 salt                         kg              2,942,000                  √              a
                               sawdust                        kg                 5,000                   √              a
raw materials                   paper                         kg                  180                    √              a
                  metals (safety barriers, signage)           kg                54,250                   √             μ/α
                  plastic (safety barriers, signage)          kg                  700                    √             μ/α
                              cleaning                      items                 15                     √             μ/α
                             fuel (petrol)                  litres                330                    √             μ/α
associate
processes                  fuel (diesel oil)                litres             241,506                   √             μ/α
materials
                             heating oil                    litres        not measured                   √             μ/α
                         water (for washing)                litres             100,000                   √              a
                                tires                       items                 160                    √             μ/α
                              batteries                     items                 20                     √             μ/α
semi-
manufactured             spare parts (cables)              measures             30,997                   √             μ/α
goods or parts
                             computers                      items                 70                     √             μ/α
                                lamps                       items                1,128                   √             μ/α
materials for                   metal                       items                 100                    √             μ/α
packaging
purposes                        paper                         kg                  20                     √              a




                                                           47

             waste management

             the operation of the company and the use of motorways leads to certain - albeit
             limited due to the type of activity - quantities of waste, which the company
             manages in the appropriate manner, and in any case in accordance with legal
             provisions and regulations.

             according to the company’s environmental policy, its primary goal is to constantly
             improve the environmental performance achieved, among other things, through
“”           minimising the waste produced by the various activities, by utilising or recycling
             them. the potential environmental impacts arising from the operation and
             maintenance of the motorway are recorded, analysed and measured in order
             to minimise the negative effects and eliminate any possible burden on the
             environment.

                          waste category                             type of loan           quantity (tn)
     animal tissue waste                                                 solid                   1.05
     tires at the end of their life cycle                                solid                   3.12
     iron and steel                                                      solid                    3.5
     lead batteries                                                      solid                   0.06
     engine gear box and lubrication oils                               liquid                    1.6
     mixed municipal waste                                         liquid and solid              361
     total                                                                                       370

             the total volume of hazardous waste in 2014 was 370 tons, which was mainly gear
             box and lubrication oils, other engine oils, tires at the end of their life cycle, iron and
             steel, lead batteries, mixed municipal waste and animal tissue waste. all waste
             was managed in a suitable manner, and in accordance with legal requirements
             and regulations.


             air quality monitoring

                              due to the burning of fossil fuels by the company’s fleet, as well as
                              the heating and operating needs of buildings and various facilities,
                              there are gaseous emissions. the company’s standing objective
                              is to efficiently use energy in order to achieve corresponding low
                              levels of emissions.

                              at the same time, the company seeks to inform and raise the
                              awareness of drivers through the distribution of specialised
                              leaflets with the purpose of promoting eco-friendly driving. eco-
                              friendly driving, apart from being more economical in terms of
                              energy consumption, also leads to lower gas emissions, while it
                              can further contribute to safe transportation.

                            in order to monitor air pollution produced by the operation of
                            the motorway, the company has installed three air pollution
                            measurement stations in varympompi, schimatari and arkitsa.
             the stations operate on a 24-hour basis and the values of the following pollutants
             and parameters are recorded:
             • pollutants: co, co2, no, no2, so2, o3, tsp, pm10, pm2, pm5, c6h6 (benzene),
                 c7h8 (toluene) and xylene
             • the climate conditions of each installation area




                                                        48

the stations have been in operation since 2012 and the company implements
annual air pollution monitoring programs, in cooperation with the department of
civil engineering of the university of thessaly, and submits the relevant annual air
pollution reports to the competent public services.

according to the station recordings and the relevant report issued in 2014, air
pollution limits were not exceeded as a result of traffic on the motorway.


noise monitoring                                                                       “”
one of the effects of the construction and operation of motorways
is the emission of noise from the passing vehicles. nea odos
monitors noise levels on a regular basis, by making systematic
sound measurements at various locations of the motorways, and
takes all the measures necessary in order to ensure that the noise
level from the operation of the project is within the limits set out by
the applicable laws.

to this end, with the goal of measurement independence, special
traffic noise monitoring programs are implemented on an annual
basis, with the support of the laboratory of transportation
environmental acoustics of the department of civil engineering
of the university of thessaly. in this framework, 24-hour sound
measurements (with hourly analysis) are carried out along the
length of the road at various points.

the company’s standard policy is to minimise the disturbance potentially caused
to various adjacent areas of the project, and all the necessary measures are taken
(installation of sound barriers, etc.) where deemed necessary as a result of the
measurements, the relative legislation and the studies that are carried out.

moreover, the company, seeking to minimise the disturbance that is potentially
caused to various adjacent areas of the project, and to cooperate with the local
communities in the areas it is active in, keeps an open line of communication,
which anyone who wishes to express a concern or complaint regarding the noise
levels at any point can address. after the company receives the complaint, it will
measure the noise levels at the point in question, in order to ascertain whether the
levels are within or outside the allowed limits. if the noise levels are found to be
outside the stipulated limits, corrective actions are taken. this is how the two-way
communication between the local residents and the company is ensured, and it is
the best way to resolve any related issues that may arise.


environmental auditing of associates and contractors and protection
of biodiversity

environmental auditing of partners and contractors
nea odos seeks to promote the protection of the environment to its supply chain as
well, where deemed appropriate and necessary. specifically, there are continuous
inspections of the implementation of the environmental terms and the related
environmental laws by the subcontractors and partners who have undertaken
operational and maintenance works at various sections of the project.




                                         49

     additionally, a necessary requirement, in order for the company to enter into a
     partnership with contractors who will undertake the implementation of works
     in its area, is that the contractors must sign a statement of compliance with the
     environmental requirements of the project, according to which they are committed
     to comply with the environmental protection terms and to take preventive
     measures to protect the environment and biodiversity.

     it must implement a series of measures, some of which are related to:
“”   • the correct and legal disposal of waste
     • taking preventive measures for the protection of the environment
     • obtaining all necessary licenses, legalising documents, certificates,
         documentation, etc.
     • the environmental licensing of its operations


     protection of biodiversity
     as regards the protection of biodiversity in the various areas, the initial planning
     of the concession project took place based on the main environmental impact
     studies (eis) for the layout and alignment of the motorway. these studies
     were prepared in accordance with the applicable laws for the protection of the
     environment, and included, among other things, the evaluation of the impacts
     on the biodiversity of each area, as set out by the law. the approval of the eiss
     and the approved environmental terms decisions that emerged from them,
     contain, where required, terms for the protection of biodiversity. as the project
     progresses, where further environmental licensing is required in order to
     evaluate the impacts of any modifications to the project or any accompanying
     works (change of planning, licensing of buildings, facilities, operations, etc.), the
     protection of biodiversity is taken into consideration in the studies, as set out by
     the law on the protection of the environment and environmental licensing.

     at the stage of the concession project’s environmental impact studies, the
     biodiversity of each area it crosses is studied, and the environmental terms are
     proposed based on its protection. as a result, a series of measures are taken,
     such as:
     • construction of wildlife crossings, in habitat areas for facilitating the
         movement of the populations of the various species;




                                             50

•   fencing of motorway to deter the entry and passing of wildlife;
•   construction of closed sewerage systems for the protection of sensitive
    areas (e.g. yliki lake and environmental habitats, natural sources);
•   planting of indigenous species for protecting the region’s flora and
    harmonisation of the project with the natural environment;
•   construction of pollutant retention tanks and implementation of action plans
    to prevent any accidental pollution;
•   planning of pilot programmes to record and monitor the growth of
    microfauna.                                                                     “”
the mesologgi-aitolikos wetlands, ozeros lake, acheloos river, arachthos river,
louros river, «limnes yliki and paralimnis - systima viotikou kifissou» (yliki
lake and paralimni - kifissos river system of viotia) that is included in the
2000 natura network, «ygrotopos kai nisia tou kolpou atalantis» (wetland and
islands of the atalanti bay) that is included in the natura 2000 network, «kato
rous kai ekvoles spercheiou potamou» (lower part and estuary of spercheios
river) that is included in the natura 2000 network, are broader areas which the
company’s concession project neighbours or passes through.


compliance

nea odos places special emphasis on the requirements of environmental laws
and the related regulations and makes sure that its performance is within
the stipulated limits. the developments of environmental legislation and the
related regulations are monitored on an ongoing basis by the responsible and
specialised company officers, whereas compliance is evaluated on an annual
basis, both as regards environmental laws and the other regulations that are in
effect (environmental terms, concession agreement, etc.). in fact, in the context
of the management systems being implemented, a procedure is followed
according to which the legal and other requirements related to the company are
analysed at least once every six months.

as a result of the efforts made, no monetary fine or other non-pecuniary
sanction has been imposed due to a violation of the environmental laws and
other regulations in 2014.




                                      51

     9. cooperation with local communities
             & social contribution
          positive impact on local communities and the national economy
“”        the road network and its supporting infrastructures are a decisive factor in
          economic growth. the safe and fast transport of people, products and services
          is a critical parameter for economic prosperity and sustainable development. in
          our mission to offer top quality services in the sector of road transportation, we
          take into serious consideration its impact at local level, and we aim at always
          having a positive impact on neighbouring agglomerations.

          the effects of the operation of the motorways on the local communities and
          the local economy are reported in studies of the competent ministry during the
          tender process of the original contracts and are constantly being evaluated.
          using the results of these evaluations, we strive to keep improving and to
          prove in practice that the harmonious integration of the motorway with the
          environment and the constant effort to protect and highlight the wealth of every
          region is a commitment for nea odos.

          nea odos supports local communities in the areas it is active in and tries, with
          targeted actions and responsibility in its daily operation, to contribute towards
          a better quality of life. the corporate responsibility initiatives take into account
          and always include the people that reside in the agglomerations close to the
          motorway, whereas our next goals include the effort to start a productive
          dialogue with representatives of local communities. detailed information per
          area of practical support follow below.


                       socio - economic benefits from the construction
                              of «ionia odos» concession project
                               se of travel                             ad safety
                             ea                                       ro
                         r




                                             tim




                                   12
                      dec




                                                e




                             9           3


                                   6




                         athina - skarfia                            accident rates
                                                                     5 times lower
               from                                   to
              2:00h                                 1:15h




                                                                     fatal accidents
                       antirrio - ioannina                              reduction
                                                                       up to 65%
               from                                   to
              3:30h                                 1:40h




                           financial                                   financial
                       social contribution                         social contribution
                       €3,750,000,000                               €575,509,125
                         (prices 2006)                               (prices 2006)



                                                            52

         local economy and suppliers
         nea odos supports the local economy both through the technical-construction
         works it implements, and through its daily operation.
                                                                                                        “”
         the range of this support is enormous and includes a number of sectors, from
         local contractors, technicians, owners of machinery for the project and or trucks
         and even the catering sector. nea odos, aiming to support the growth of the
         local market, views the potential locality of a candidate supplier as a positive
         fact, and where possible, selects suppliers, associates and contractors from
         neighbouring areas.

         analysis of suppliers per category/origin and expense (2014)
            categorisation of suppliers        number of suppliers             expense (ä)
          local suppliers                             273                       2,167,423
          national level suppliers *                  190                      243,893,941
          international level suppliers                22                       1,359,090
          total                                       485                      247,420,454

         contributing to local employment
         as an additional measure to support local
                                                                 we support employ-
         communities, nea odos covers a significant part
         of the company’s needs in human resources with          ment at the motorway’s
         residents of the respective local communities. it       areas of passage:
         thus significantly supports employment in these         approximately 56% of
         areas, while increasing the opportunities for mutual    our people come from
         communication and understanding with regard to
                                                                 areas outside of attica
         issues concerning local communities on the one
         side and the company on the other.

         in 2014, 17% of our employees were from the wider area of viotia, and 39% from other
         areas outside attica and viotia.

         distribution of human resources per geographical area of origin and gender

                                  2012                          2013                     2014
 geographical area
                           men           women         men             women       men          women
attica                      76            90            76              89          80           87
viotia                      22            42            21              41          25           38
rest of greece              61            51            63              49          86           60




         the integration of motorways in the environment and the constant
         effort to protect and promote every area’s wealth is one of the
         company’s commitments.

                                                 53

     welfare and social solidarity actions

     every year the company takes a number of welfare actions, supporting vulnerable
     social groups and non-profit organisation programs, with the purpose of
     contributing to the greek society, especially during these financially trying times.

     in particular, in 2014 nea odos supported:
     • «the smile of the child» organisation for children, with donations in kind and
         economic support, from the company as well as the anonymous donations
“”       of employees and users, through the money boxes that are installed at the
         company’s headquarters and the customer service center;
     • the civil non-profit company «observatory of road axes of western greece
         and peloponnese», of the university of patra, whose mission involves the
         systematic monitoring, recording and evaluation of the financial, social,
         developmental, spatial, transportation and environmental impacts of the
         network of the road axes and the rio-antirrio bridge in southern and western
         greece and peloponnese, as well as more widely in the areas of the country
         where there are extensions or terminations of these roads;
     • the red cross, by providing air-conditioning equipment and a call center;
     • the «together for children» association, with the employees of nea odos
         raising money to donate essentials, toys and stationery;
     • the centres of elepap (rehabilitation for the disabled) in agrinio and ioannina
         with financial support

     during the 2010-2014 period we carried out solidarity and contribution actions,
     focusing mainly on the following:


                        in the effort to financially support the critical social work per-
                        formed by the smile of the child, we have developed a financial
                        contribution system via sms, which we promote through the leaf-
                        lets we distribute to the passing drivers


     education

     •   support of the educational programs for the disabled organised by elepap;
     •   contribution to the information of the passing drivers on critical first aid
         matters-advise, in cooperation with iek omiros and the national centre for
         the support of life (ekepyz);
     •   production and distribution of first aid leaflets by ekav;
     •   support for the organisation of scientific conferences of the european
         international contractors, the university of thessaly and the hellenic institute
         of transportation engineers


     building coverage - equipment

     support of permanent needs and needs in equipment of the following organisations:
     • medecins du monde                     • elepap
     • the smile of the child                • traffic police
     • red cross




                                             54

environmental awareness                                                                                                                            δασικεσ
                                                                                                                                                   πυρκαγιεσ
•     since 2011, and every year after that, nea odos has been
                                                                                                                                                    ενημερωνομαστε
                                                                                                                                                    εγκαιρα

      cooperating with the plastics company and skai television,                                                                                    προστατευομαστε
                                                                                                                                                    αποτελεσματικα
      to distribute 40,000 biodegradable bags (20,000 during the                                                                                    δεν καίμε σκουπίδια, ξερά χόρτα και κλαδιά.


      easter holidays and 20,000 during the summer holidays) to
                                                                                                                                                    δεν ανάβουμε υπαίθριες ψησταριές στα δάση ή σε
                                                                                                                                                    χώρους με ξερά χόρτα.
                                                                                                                                                    δεν κάνουμε εργασίες που ενδέχεται να


      drivers, so that users can collect any trash created during
                                                                                                                                                    προκαλέσουν πυρκαγιά (π.χ. οξυγονοκολλήσεις, χρήση
                                                                                                                                                    τροχού κ.λπ.).
                                                                                                                                                    δεν πετάμε αναμμένα τσιγάρα στην ύπαιθρο.



      their trip and dispose of it at their final destination, and not
                                                                                                                                                    δεν αφήνουμε σκουπίδια στο δάσος.
                                                                                                                                                    εφοδιαζόμαστε με επαρκείς οικιακούς
                                                                                                                                                    πυροσβεστήρες και φροντίζουμε για τη συντήρησή τους.



      on the motorway;
                                                                                                                                                    προμηθευόμαστε σωλήνα ποτίσματος με μήκος όσο
                                                                                                                                                    και η περιοχή που θέλουμε να προστατεύσουμε.




•     in cooperation with the center for renewable energy sources,
      the company contributed to the dissemination of ecological
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   “”
      driving practices and environmentally responsible driving
      behaviour;
•     in cooperation with the fire department, nea odos contributed                                                                        ευρωπαϊκοσ αριθμοσ
                                                                                                                                            εκτακτησ αναγκησ    γενικη γραμματεια πολιτικησ προστασιασ

                                                                                                                                                                για οδηγίες πρόληψης και προστασίας επισκεφθείτε την ιστοσελίδα:



      to disseminating responsible practices for preventing fires
                                                                                                                                                                                               www.civilprotection.gr




      and reducing the risk of their occurrence.

moreover, we have allowed and continue to allow passage on a regular basis to the
following vehicles:
                                                ekab a5:layout 1   31/7/13   15:47    page 2




• the bus specially configured for disabled people, of the
     center for the disabled (amea) of the social         166 protection and
                                           το εκαβ σας εύχεται ασφαλή ταξίδια και υπενθυµίζει:
                                                        πώς να καλείτε το              :

     solidarity society of the municipality of volos (kekpa - diek)
                                                         ∆ηλώστε άμεσα τον αριθμό τηλεφώνου (κινητό ή σταθερό) από το οποίο καλείτε.
                                                         όταν τηλεφωνείτε από κινητό τηλέφωνο πρέπει να πείτε από ποια περιοχή καλείτε
                                                         (π.χ. πόλη- χωριό, εθνική οδό κλπ.).


• the italian and croatian delegation that participated in the                                             ekab
                                                         ∆ώστε την ακριβή διεύθυνση ή τη χιλιομετρική θέση και την κατεύθυνσή σας, την
                                                         περιοχή και κάποιο χαρακτηριστικό σημείο (π.χ. εκκλησία - σχολείο κλπ.) για να
                                                         σας βρει πιο εύκολα και πιο γρήγορα το ασθενοφόρο.
                                                         πείτε πόσοι τραυματίες υπάρχουν (αν πρόκειται για τροχαίο ατύχημα ή άλλο).


     prometheus 2014 civil protection mechanism exercise;
                                                         πριν κλείσετε το τηλέφωνό σας ρωτήστε τον τηλεφωνητή του εκαβ αν χρειάζε-
                                                         ται κάποια άλλη πληροφορία (ίσως χρειασθεί περισσότερα στοιχεία από αυτά που
                                                         δώσατε) και μετά κλείστε το τηλέφωνο.
                                                                                               ∆ώστε προτεραιότητα στην πρόληψη
                                                        ο εκνευρισμός και η αναστάτωσή σας ίσως είναι δικαιολογημένη, παρ’ όλα αυτά προ-

• the bicycling team of the association of cancer patients of
                                                        σπαθήστε να μείνετε ψύχραιμοι. η εριστική συμπεριφορά δεν θα λύσει το πρόβλημά
                                                                                                       και την ασφάλεια
                                                        σας. χρειαζόµαστε τη βοήθειά σας για να σας βοηθήσουµε καλύτερα.



     athens «kefi», in the context of the haute route alps event;
                                                        προσοχη: μην κάνετε φάρσες στο 166, είναι παράνοµη και αντικοινωνική ενέρ-
                                                        γεια. όταν εσείς θα γελάτε, κάποιος άλλος θα κινδυνεύει αβοήθητος. μιλήστε στα
                                                        παιδιά σας γι' αυτό, αξίζει τον κόπο.



• the vehicle of the athletic society of disabled persons «the
                                                        οδηγούµε µε ασφάλεια, προσέχουµε πεζούς και ποδηλάτες,
                                                        παίρνουµε µέτρα πρόληψης για τη ζέστη και τη θάλασσα.


     argonauts»                                           ∆εν καλούµε άσκοπα το 166.
                                                          ∆εν εµποδίζουµε το ασθενοφόρο.

                                                                   ελληνικη ∆ημοκρατια
                                                                   υπουργειο υγειασ


permanent entrance pass
                                                                   εθνικο κεντρο αμεσησ βοηθειασ
                                                                   ε.κ.α.β. - 166, www.ekab.gr
                                                                                                                                                            άνοιξη και ελληνικό καλοκαίρι:
                                                                                                                                                       εκδροµές, ταξίδια, θάλασσα, φιλικές και

•     the mobile educational unit of the hellenic institute for road
                                                                                                                                                            οικογενειακές συγκεντρώσεις.
                                                                                                                                                  ας µην ξεχνάµε να τηρούµε τους βασικούς κανόνες
                                                                                                                                                   ασφάλειας, για να µπορούµε να απολαµβάνουµε

      safety (ioas) panos mylonas                                                                                                                        χωρίς «κόστος» ευχάριστες στιγµές.


•     passenger vehicles of people with special needs-skills                         mε την υποστήριξη




      (αμεα)
•     lower tolls for permanent residents of oropos.



    we listen to the needs of the permanent residents of the various areas where
    we are present, we evaluate with a sense of responsibility their fair requests
    and we work towards the satisfaction of their expectations:
    • by recognising the needs for the daily passage of the residents of the wider
        region of oropos from the athens-lamia section, which we manage, we
        offered the lower-priced fast pass oropos
    • similarly, we developed the fast pass promo and fast pass frequent in
        order to offer a much better price for local transportation and significant
        discounts to frequent users of the section from metamorfosi to oinofyta.




                                                     55

“”




     56

              10. report profile
the 2014 corporate responsibility report focuses on the economic, social
and environmental impact of nea odos during the period from 1 january to
31 december 2014. it is the first report on non-financial performance issues,
and the company intends to publish such a report on an annual basis. the
information and quantitative data included in the separate sections refer to the
full range of the activities of nea odos and do not cover activities or performance
                                                                                      “”
data of associated or third companies, such as suppliers or contractors which
the company cooperates with. finally, we must mention that nea odos has no
subsidiaries.

external assurance
since this report is the first such publication by nea odos, the company decided
not to proceed with any external assurance for 2014. we do intend however to
proceed with external assurance in the future.

compliance with international standards
the report was planned and developed on the basis of the guidelines of the
global reporting initiative (gri), version g4. moreover, the report covers the
«core» level requirements, as can be seen in the gri index table presented in
pg 54.

csr team
a number of officers from various company departments and divisions
cooperated in order to collect the data and prepare the report:
• material coordinators: foteini lamprou, gerasimos monokrousos
• representatives of departments/divisions - responsible for material: vaso
    voulgaraki, panagiotis galanopoulos, fotis gonos, bampis daskalakis,
    evangelos kareklas, nikos katapodis, foteini lamprou, natalia manara,
    giannis marinopoulos, gerasimos monokrousos, giannis boulieris, eleni
    nianiou, anastasia pnevmatikou, evgenia soufi, panagiota stasinou,
    ioanna tsakatoura.

support
the 2014 corporate responsibility report was prepared with the support and
scientific guidance of the specialised consultant giorgos iliopoulos.

contact point
your opinion is of critical importance to us, and especially for the improvement of
our operating methods. we will be happy to hear your comments and opinions,
so that we can offer any further clarification or answer any question regarding
the activities of nea odos on corporate responsibility issues.

gerasimos monokrousos
public relations, marketing & c.s.r. associate
address: 13 sorou street, maroussi, 151 25
e-mail: gmonokrousos@neaodos.gr
telephone: (+30) 210-3447300
fax: (+30) 210-6100301
www.neaodos.gr




                                       57

                 11. table of gri - g4 indicators




                                                                                                                                              assurance
                                                                                                                                              external
     gri index                     description                        iso 26000                      page number or reference



                  statement by chairman of the bod -
“”     g4-1
                  strategy for sustainable development
                                                                   4.7, 6.2, 7.4.2      pg. 8-9                                                  -

       g4-3       company name                                                          nea odos concession s.a.                                 -
       g4-4       primary brands, products, and/or services                             pg. 10-11                                                -
       g4-5       location of organization’s headquarters                               pg. 12                                                   -
       g4-6       countries where the company operates                                  pg. 10-11                                                -
       g4-7       nature of ownership and legal form                                    pg. 12, concession societe anonyme                       -
       g4-8       markets served                                                        pg. 10-11                                                -
       g4-9       scale of the company                                                  pg. 10, 11, 14, 36                                       -
      g4-10       human resources data                                                  pg. 36, 38, 40-41                                        -
                  percentage of employees covered by
      g4-11                                                                             pg. 40-41                                                -
                  collective bargaining agreements.

      g4-12       description of company's supply chain                                 pg. 15                                                   -

                  significant changes, compared to previous
                                                                                        there are no changes since this is the company’s
      g4-13       reports, regarding size, structure,                                                                                            -
                                                                                        first report.
                  ownership or the company's supply chain
      g4-14       implementation of precautionary principle                             pg. 22-23, 25, 27, 28, 41, 50                            -
                  charters, principles or other initiatives        6.3.10, 6.4.1-
      g4-15       developed externally, relating to the            6.4.2, 6.4.3,        pg. 57                                                   -
                  economy, the environment and society.            6.4.4, 6.4.5,
                                                                   6.8.5, 7.8
                                                                                        nea odos contributes to the continuous
                                                                                        improvement of the road infrastructures and
                                                                                        quality of the services offered, also through
                                                                                        its participation in hellastronª (hellenic
                                                                                        association of toll road network), which was
                                                                                        founded in late 2014 with the participation of
                                                                                        all modern motorways and toll infrastructures
                                                                                        operating in greece. the main goal of
                                                                                        hellastron is to promote road transport in
                                                                                        greece, and in this context its objectives include:
                  memberships in business associations,                                 •     the continuous improvement of road
      g4-16                                                                                                                                      -
                  societies and organisations                                                 networks and the services provided to users.
                                                                                        •     the promotion of road safety.
                                                                                        •     the promotion of research on transportation
                                                                                              issues through partnerships with related
                                                                                              bodies and institutes in greece and abroad.
                                                                                        •     developing the science of road infrastructure
                                                                                              construction and management, the creation
                                                                                              of capable and informed executives and the
                                                                                              exchange of the corresponding know-how.
                                                                                        •     participation in the corresponding bodies in
                                                                                              europe and the world.
                  list of companies included in the                5.2, 7.3.2, 7.3.3,
      g4-17                                                                             nea odos has no subsidiaries.                            -
                  consolidated financial statements                7.3.4

                  process for defining report content -
      g4-18                                                                             pg. 17-19, 57                                            -
                  implementation of gri principles                 5.2, 7.3.2, 7.3.3,
                  list of all the material aspects identified in   7.3.4
      g4-19                                                                             pg. 17-19                                                -
                  the process for defining report content




                                                                         58

                                                                                                                                            assurance
                                                                                                                                            external
  gri index                      description                           iso 26000                    page number or reference



               delimitation of material aspects within the
    g4-20                                                                             pg. 64                                                   -
               company

               delimitation of material aspects outside the
    g4-21                                                                             pg. 64                                                   -
               company
                                                                 5.2, 7.3.2, 7.3.3,
    g4-22      restatements of information
                                                                 7.3.4                there are no restatements of information since this
                                                                                      is the company’s first report
                                                                                                                                               -        “”
               significant changes from previous reporting
                                                                                      there are no changes since this is the company’s
    g4-23      periods in the scope or boundaries of                                                                                           -
                                                                                      first report
               material aspects.

    g4-24      list of the company's stakeholders                                     pg. 20-21                                                -

    g4-25      identification and selection of stakeholders                           pg. 20                                                   -
                                                                 5.3
    g4-26      stakeholder engagement                                                 pg. 20-21                                                -

    g4-27      key topics and concerns of stakeholders                                pg. 20-21                                                -

    g4-28      reporting period                                                       pg. 57                                                   -

    g4-29      date of most recent report                                             pg. 57                                                   -

    g4-30      reporting cycle                                                        pg. 57                                                   -
    g4-31      contact point                                     7.5.3, 7.6.2         pg. 57                                                   -
               coverage of gri instructions - gri table of
    g4-32                                                                             gri-g4 ‘in accordance’ – core                            -
               contents - external assurance of report

               policy on the external assurance of the
    g4-33                                                                             pg. 57                                                   -
               report
    g4-34      corporate governance structure                    6.2, 7.4.3, 7.7.5    pg. 14 -15                                               -
               the company's principles - values, mission,
    g4-56                                                  4.4, 6.6.3                 pg. 9                                                    -
               codes of conduct



financial performance indicators
                                                                                                                               reasons of




                                                                                                                                            assurance
                                                                                                                               omission/

                                                                                                                               coverage


  material     management approach & performance                                                                                            external
                                                             iso 26000             page number or reference / comment
  aspects                  indicators
                                                                                                                               non




                                                             6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3,
                  g4-dma / management approach                                                     pg. 13-14               -                   -
                                                             7.7.3, 7.7.5
                                                             6.8.1-6.8.2,
                    g4-ec1: direct economic value
                                                             6.8.3, 6.8.7,                         pg. 13-14               -                   -
                      generated and distributed
                                                             6.8.9
                                                                                                                           there has
   financial                                                                                                               been no
 performance                                                                                                               related study,
                  g4-ec2: financial implications and                                                                       however it
                 other risks and opportunities for the                                                                     is estimated
                                                             6.5.5                                     -                                       -
                organization's activities due to climate                                                                   that there are
                                change                                                                                     no relevant
                                                                                                                           risks to the
                                                                                                                           company’s
                                                                                                                           activities




                                                                         59

                                                                                                                                     reasons of




                                                                                                                                                   assurance
                                                                                                                                     omission/

                                                                                                                                     coverage
        material         management approach & performance




                                                                                                                                                   external
                                                                    iso 26000          page number or reference / comment
        aspects                      indicators




                                                                                                                                     non
                                                                                        the company covers the appropriate
                                                                                          insurance contributions for each
                         g4-ec3: coverage of the organization's                        employee, exactly as stipulated by law.
                                                                    6.8.7                                                        -                    -
                            defined benefit plan obligations                             the employees who retire receive a
                                                                                       pension from the competent state body.
                                                                                         there is no additional pension plan.
“”                                                                                     www.neaodos.gr / section companyª
                                                                                       / sub-section financial statementsª
                         g4-ec4: significant financial assistance                       / annual financial statements 2014
                                                                    —                                                            -                    -
                           received from government bodies                              [in greek] (http://www.neaodos.gr/
                                                                                       media/marketing_dep/financial_data/
                                                                                              neaodos_2014_gr.pdf)
                                                                    6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3,
                            g4-dma / management approach                                       pg. 10-11, 13-14, 52-55           -                    -
                                                                    7.7.3, 7.7.5
                         g4-ec7: development and impact of     6.3.9, 6.8.1-
        indirect       infrastructure investments and services 6.8.2, 6.8.7,                    pg. 10-11, 13, 52-55             -                    -
       economic        supported mainly for the common good 6.8.9
        impacts                                                     6.3.9, 6.6.6,
                                                                    6.6.7, 6.7.8,
                           g4-ec8: significant indirect             6.8.1-6.8.2,               pg. 10-11, 13-14, 52-55           -                    -
                               economic impacts                     6.8.5, 6.8.7,
                                                                    6.8.9

     environmental performance indicators




                                                                                                                                      reasons of




                                                                                                                                                   assurance
                                                                                                                                      omission/
                                 management approach &




                                                                                                                                      coverage

                                                                                                                                                   external
      material aspects                                                iso 26000          page number or reference / comment
                                 performance indicators




                                                                                                                                      non
                                                                    6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3,
                            g4-dma / management approach                                               pg. 44-46                          -           -
                                                                    7.7.3, 7.7.5

                            g4-εn3: energy consumption within
                                                                                                       pg. 45-47                          -           -
                            the company
                                                                    6.5.4
                            g4-εn4: energy consumption
          energy                                                                                       pg. 45-47                          -           -
                            outside the company

                            g4-εν6: reduction of energy
                                                                                                       pg. 45-46                          -           -
                            consumption
                                                                    6.5.4, 6.5.5
                                                                                                the company›s products
                            g4-εn7: reductions in energy
                                                                                                 do not consume energy                    -           -
                            requirements of products
                                                                                                        pg. 45-46
                                                                    6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3,
                            g4-dma / management approach                                              pg. 44, 50-51                       -           -
                                                                    7.7.3, 7.7.5
                            g4-εn11: operational sites in, or
                            adjacent to, protected areas and                                           pg. 50-51                          -           -
                            areas of high biodiversity value
        biodiversity        g4-εn12: description of significant
                            impacts of activities, products, and 6.5.6
                                                                                                       pg. 50-51                          -           -
                            services on biodiversity in protected
                            areas
                            g4-εn13: habitats protected or
                                                                                                       pg. 50-51                          -           -
                            restored

                                                                    6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3,
        emissions           g4-dma / management approach                                              pg. 46, 48-49                       -           -
                                                                    7.7.3, 7.7.5




                                                                               60

                                                                                                                            reasons of




                                                                                                                                         assurance
                                                                                                                            omission/
                         management approach &




                                                                                                                            coverage

                                                                                                                                         external
material aspects                                             iso 26000          page number or reference / comment
                         performance indicators




                                                                                                                            non
                   g4-εn15: direct greenhouse gas
                                                                                              pg. 48-49                         -           -
                   (ghg) emissions (scope 1)
                   g4-εn16: energy indirect
                   greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions                                             pg. 48-49                         -           -
                   (scope 2)
                                                           6.5.5
                   g4-εn17: other indirect greenhouse
                   gas (ghg) emissions (scope 3)
                                                                                              pg. 48-49                         -           -        “”
                   g4-en19: reduction of greenhouse
                                                                                              pg. 48-49                         -           -
                   gas (ghg) emissions

                   g4-εn21: νοx, sοx and other
                                                           6.5.3                              pg. 48-49                         -           -
                   significant gas emissions

                                                           6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3,
                   g4-dma / management approach                                            pg. 44, 48, 50-51                    -           -
                                                           7.7.3, 7.7.5

                   g4-εn22: total water discharge by
                                                           6.5.3, 6.5.4                         pg. 48                          -           -
                   quality and destination

                   g4-εn23: total weight of waste by
                                                                                                pg. 48                          -           -
                   type and disposal method
 effluents and
     waste         g4-εn24: total number and volume        6.5.3                         there were no spills                   -           -
                   of significant spills
                   g4-εn25: weight of transported,                                          pg. 48, 50-51
                   imported, exported, or treated                             the company is not active in the hazardous        -           -
                   waste deemed hazardous                                             waste processing field
                   g4-εn26: identity, size, protected     6.5.3, 6.5.4,           there are no discharges of water
                   status of areas significantly affected                                                                       -           -
                                                          6.5.6                             pg. 48, 50-51
                   by the discharges of water
                                                           6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3,
                   g4-dma / management approach                                            pg. 44-47, 49-51                     -           -
                                                           7.7.3, 7.7.5
                   g4-εn27: extent of impact           6.5.3, 6.5.4,
 products and      mitigation of environmental impacts                                     pg. 44-47, 49-51                     -           -
   services                                            6.5.5, 6.7.5
                   of products and services
                   g4-εn28: percentage of products         6.5.3, 6.5.4,      due to the nature of the company›s activity
                   sold and their packaging materials                                                                           -           -
                                                           6.7.5                     there are no product returns
                   that are reclaimed by category
                                                           6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3,
                   g4-dma / management approach                                                 pg. 51                          -           -
                                                           7.7.3, 7.7.5
                   g4-εn29: monetary value of
  compliance
                   significant fines and total number
                   of non-monetary sanctions for non-      4.6                                  pg. 51                          -           -
                   compliance with environmental
                   laws and regulations
                                                           6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3,
                   g4-dma / management approach                                              pg. 27, 45-46                      -           -
                                                           7.7.3, 7.7.5
   transport
                   g4-εn30: environmental impacts
                                                           6.5.4, 6.6.6                      pg. 27, 45-46                      -           -
                   from transports

                                                           6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3,
                   g4-dma: management approach                                                pg. 50-51                         -           -
                                                           7.7.3, 7.7.5
                   g4-εn32: percentage of new              6.3.5, 6.6.6,
   supplier        suppliers that were screened using                                         pg. 50-51                         -           -
environmental                                              7.3.1
                   environmental criteria
 assessment
                   g4-εn33: significant actual and
                   potential negative environmental        6.3.5, 6.6.6,
                                                                                              pg. 50-51                         -           -
                   impacts in the supply chain and         7.3.1
                   actions taken




                                                                      61

                                                                                                                                  reasons of




                                                                                                                                                  assurance
                                                                                                                                  omission/
                               management approach &




                                                                                                                                  coverage

                                                                                                                                                  external
      material aspects                                             iso 26000          page number or reference / comment
                               performance indicators




                                                                                                                                  non
                                                                 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3,
                          g4-dma / management approach                                                 pg. 49                          -             -
       environmental                                             7.7.3, 7.7.5
         grievance
                          g4-en34: number of grievances
        mechanisms        about environmental impacts of the     6.3.6                                 pg. 49                          -             -
                          company

“”
     social performance indicators




                                                                                                                                   non coverage
                                                                                                                                   reasons of
                                                                                                                                   omission /




                                                                                                                                                  assurance
                               management approach &




                                                                                                                                                  external
      material aspects                                             iso 26000          page number or reference / comment
                               performance indicators



     labor practices

                                                                 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3,
                          g4-dma: management approach                                                pg. 36, 38                         -            -
                                                                 7.7.3, 7.7.5
                          g4-la1: total number and rates of
                          new employee hires and employee
                                                                6.4.3                                pg. 36, 38                         -            -
                          turnover by age group, gender and
                          region
                          g4-la2: benefits provided to full-
                          time employees that are not provided
                                                                6.4.4, 6.8.7                           pg. 38                           -            -
        employment        to temporary or part-time employees,
                          by significant locations of operation
                                                                                    the company grants in each case the leave
                                                                                    stipulated by law to the employees have had
                                                                                      or will have a child. in 2014, 13 company
                          g4-la3: return to work and retention                       employees were entitled to parental leave,
                                                                6.4.4                                                                   -            -
                          rates after parental leave, by gender                       which they took. all employees receiving
                                                                                    such leave continue to be employed with the
                                                                                     company even 12 months after their leave.
                                                                                                         pg. 37
                                                                 6, 7.3.1,
                          g4-dma / management approach           7.4.3,                              pg. 41-42                          -            -
                                                                 7.7.3, 7.7.5
                          g4-la5:     percentage of  total                                  the company has a health
                          workforce represented in formal                                     and safety committee
                                                           6.4.6                                                                        -            -
      health and safety   joint management–worker health
                          and safety committees                                                       pg. 41-43
                                                                                          there are no such agreements -
                          g4-la8: health and safety topics
                                                                                       all the provisions of the relevant laws
                          covered in formal agreements with 6.4.6                                                                       -            -
                                                                                                  are complied with
                          trade unions
                                                                                                      pg. 41, 43
                                                                 6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3,
                          g4-dma / management approach                                               pg. 39-40                          -            -
                                                                 7.7.3, 7.7.5
                          g4-la9: average hours of training
                          per year per employee by gender, 6.4.7                                     pg. 39-40                          -            -
                          and by employee category
        training and
         education        g4-la10: programs for skills
                                                           6.4.7, 6.8.5                              pg. 39-40                          -            -
                          management and lifelong learning
                          g4-la11: percentage of employees
                          receiving regular performance and
                                                            6.4.7                                    pg. 38-39                          -            -
                          career development reviews, by
                          gender and by employee category




                                                                            62

                                                                                                                              non coverage
                                                                                                                              reasons of
                                                                                                                              omission /




                                                                                                                                             assurance
                         management approach &




                                                                                                                                             external
 material aspects                                             iso 26000          page number or reference / comment
                         performance indicators


                                                            6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3,
                    g4-dma / management approach                                                 pg. 38                            -            -
                                                            7.7.3, 7.7.5
                    g4-la12: composition of governance
  diversity and     bodies and breakdown of employees
equal opportunity   per employee category according to 6.2.3, 6.3.7,
                                                                                          pg. 14-15, 36, 38, 40                    -            -
                    gender, age group, minority group 6.3.10, 6.4.3
                    membership, and other indicators of
                    diversity
                                                                                                                                                         “”
human rights

                                                            6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3,
                    g4-dma / management approach                                                 pg. 38                            -            -
                                                            7.7.3, 7.7.5
       non-
  discrimination    g4-hr3: total number of incidents of 6.3.6, 6.3.7,
                    discrimination and corrective actions                                        pg. 38                            -            -
                                                          6.3.10, 6.4.3
                    taken

society

                                                            6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3,
                    g4-dma / management approach                                                pg. 52-55                          -            -
                                                            7.7.3, 7.7.5
                  g4-so1: percentage of operations                                   partnership programs with local
                  with implemented local community 6.3.9, 6.5.1-                  communities are implemented in the
                                                                                                                                   -            -
                  engagement, impact assessments, 6.5.3, 6.8                        area of the company's operations,
local communities and development programs                                                   and more widely.
                                                                               there are no significant negative effects to
                                                                                local communities, since the company is
                    g4-so2: operations with significant 6.3.9, 6.5.3,
                                                                                taking all relevant necessary measures,
                    actual or potential negative impacts                                                                           -            -
                                                         6.8                        fully implementing and frequently
                    on local communities
                                                                                 exceeding the relevant provisions of the
                                                                                           applicable legislation.

products and services

                                                            6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3,
                    g4-dma / management approach                                                pg. 22-28                          -            -
                                                            7.7.3, 7.7.5
                    g4-pr1: percentage of significant       6.7.1-6.7.2,
                    product and service categories for
                                                            6.7.4, 6.7.5,                       pg. 22-28                          -            -
 customer health    which health and safety impacts are
                    assessed for improvement                6.8.8
   and safety
                    g4-pr2: total number of incidents
                    of non-compliance with regulations      4.6, 6.7.1-
                                                                                         there were no related
                    and voluntary codes concerning the      6.7.2, 6.7.4,                                                          -            -
                                                                                       con-compliance incidents
                    health and safety impacts of products   6.7.5, 6.8.8
                    and services during their life cycle
                                                            6, 7.3.1, 7.4.3,
                    g4-dma / management approach                                                pg. 25-26                          -            -
                                                            7.7.3, 7.7.5
                    g4-pr3: type of product information
                    required by the organization’s
                    procedures      for   product    and    6.7.1-6.7.2,
                    service information and labeling,       6.7.3- 6.7.5,                       pg. 25-26                          -            -
                    and percentage of significant           6.7.9
 product labeling   products categories subject to such
                    information requirements
                    g4-pr4: total number of incidents of    4.6, 6.7.1-
                    non-compliance with regulations and     6.7.2,                       there were no related
                                                                                                                                   -            -
                    voluntary codes concerning product      6.7.3-6.7.5,               con-compliance incidents
                    and service information and labeling    6.7.9
                    g4-pr5:    results   of    surveys 6.7.1-6.7.2,
                                                                                                pg. 32-33                          -            -
                    measuring customer satisfaction    6.7.6




                                                                       63

     annex


     boundary of material issues of nea odos
                                                                                                                      boundary of issues
      corporate responsibility dimension      critical issues of corporate responsibility of nea odos
                                                                                                                    inside         outside
                                                               company's financial growth                             √
            financial effectiveness
                                                                 indirect financial impacts                           √               √
“”                                                                   fuel consumption                                 √
                                                            energy consumption in buildings                           √
                                                        energy consumption due to road lights                         √
                                                                    waste management                                  √               √
                                                                             noise                                    √               √
         environmental management
                                                                         air pollution                                √               √
                                                                         biodiversity                                 √               √
                                                         compliance with environmental laws                           √               √
                                                         environmental evaluation of suppliers                        √
                                                        environmental grievance mechanisms                            √
                                                                    offer of employment                               √
                                                          meritocratic recruitment procedures                         √
                                                                           training                                   √
                                                    development and performance management                            √
               social prosperity                            equal opportunities and diversity                         √
                                                                    non-discrimination                                √
                                                             occupational health and safety                           √
                                                                       safety of users                                √
                                                                    suitability of signage                            √




                                           creative design: despoina samourkasoglou • http://www.graphicartist.gr



                                                                           64

“”

“”




     μ/δ τεροβου - f/t terovo




                         ημικομβοσ κομποτιου - semi i/c kompoti



                                μ/δ μενιδιου - f/t menidi




                                                             ιονια οδοσ
                                                               ionia odos



                                                                                                                                         μ/δ τραγανασ - f/t tragana


                                      μ/δ αγγελοκαστρου - f/t aggelokastro




                                                                                                             αυτοκινητοδρομοσ παθε
                                                                                                                  pathe motorway
                                                                                                                                                     μ/δ θηβων - f/t thiva
                                                                         μ/δ κλοκοβασ - f/t klokova                                                                          μ/δ βαθυ - f/t vathi




                                                                                                                                                                                                    f/t




                                                                                       13, sorou str., marousi, 151 25, athens, greece
                                                                                         τηλ: +30 210 3447300 fax: +30 210 6178011
                                                                                         www.neaodos.gr, e-mail: info@neaodos.gr

