2016 sustainability report




   steel wheels on steel rail is efficiency in motion.
  efficiency motivates norfolk southern’s success in
        performance, service, and stewardship.
                see how in this report.

  what efficiency looks like

                                                         2016 sustainability report
                                                         table of contents




                          table of contents


                                             progress / page 3
                                             a q&a with norfolk southern’s corporate sustainability officer; 2015
                                             sustainability performance highlights; ns’ material sustainability issues;
                                             and stakeholder engagement.


                                             prosperity / page 15
                                             ceo jim squires’ statement; ns’ five-year strategic plan; customer service
                                             commitments; economic performance; capital investments and supply chain;
                                             and philanthropy.



                                             people / page 33
                                             workplace safety; diversity and inclusion; employee demographics; training
                                             and wellness; employee volunteerism; and community safety.




                                             planet / page 57
                                             eco locomotives and sleeper idle-reduction technology; fuel efficiency;
                                             carbon mitigation; greenhouse gas emissions; energy efficiency; and recycling
                                             and waste management.


                                             gri / page 82
                                             global reporting initiative performance indicators by section.




copyright ©2016 norfolk southern corp. three commercial place, norfolk, va 23510                                             2

progress

                                   2016 sustainability report
                                   progress / q&a with norfolk southern’s cso




                               progress
                 q&a with norfolk southern’s cso




bruno maestri
corporate sustainability officer


bruno maestri was named norfolk southern’s corporate sustainability officer in june 2015. based in
ns’ washington office, maestri also is vice president government relations. a former environmental
consultant, he joined the railroad in 1995 as chief environmental officer.


q. what is your role as corporate sustainability officer?
a. my primary role is to lead initiatives demonstrating how sustainability is embedded in the
    company’s culture. the aim is to connect our sustainability goals with our strategic corporate
    goals and to the day-to-day work of our employees. also, it’s telling the story of how norfolk
    southern interacts in sustainable ways with our shareholders, customers, and the communities
    we serve. to me, corporate sustainability means acting responsibly in the conduct of our business.
    this can only enhance our ability to grow business.

q. what is your top sustainability priority over the next year or so?
a. priority one is to get a deeper, more formal understanding of what is most material to norfolk
    southern and our key internal and external stakeholders in terms of sustainability. from that
    assessment, we can refine our areas of focus and help employees better understand the important
    role they each play in making the railroad and the communities where we live and work stronger
    and more sustainable. we are part of the fabric of the communities where we operate, and we
    want to add value by what norfolk southern brings to our communities.




                                                                                                         4

                                  2016 sustainability report
                                  progress / q&a with norfolk southern’s cso




q. as you think about sustainability trends within the broader society, what do you view as the
    greatest opportunities and challenges facing ns?

a. there is much discussion in washington about climate change and the need to reduce carbon
    emissions. studies show that freight rail is four times more fuel-efficient on average than trucks
    on the highway and generates 75 percent fewer carbon emissions per ton of freight. by encouraging
    the movement of more goods by rail instead of long-haul trucks, society actually can reduce the
    overall carbon footprint from transportation sources. that’s one of our big opportunities. the
    challenge is to establish a mechanism where rail gets credit in some manner for lowering overall
    emissions – even if total rail emissions go up some percentage as a result of moving higher business
    volumes. it’s important that those who regulate or score carbon emissions recognize the role that
    rail plays in reducing total transportation-related emissions.

q. do you think norfolk southern could ever reach a point where it runs a carbon neutral operation?
a. as we continue to grow business, offsetting our total footprint would be very challenging, but
    conceptually, it’s possible. we’ve adopted technologies and operational practices that over the
    past five years have helped us reduce carbon emissions by more than 8 percent per revenue ton-mile
    of freight. our trees and trains carbon mitigation program creates carbon credits sufficient to offset
    co₂ emissions in a meaningful way over time. in the mississippi delta, a region important to our
    business, our trees and trains partnership with greentrees has reforested 10,000 acres with more
    than 6 million trees and is expected to earn carbon credits equivalent to offsetting nearly a
    quarter of norfolk southern’s annual co₂ emissions. that’s significant. we could pursue other
    carbon-mitigation initiatives if they make sense from a business perspective. in addition, developing
    a mechanism whereby carbon credits could be earned for converting freight from highway to rail
    could make a substantial impact on offsetting our emissions.

q. what are the next steps ns needs to take to advance the company’s sustainability journey?
a. it’s to focus on the things that matter most to us, and we’re well on the way with those steps.
    locomotive fuel efficiency is one critical area. in 2015, senior management adopted a strategic plan
    that for the first time creates a publicly stated goal to reduce fuel consumption over the next five
    years. this is key to our ongoing efforts to reduce carbon emissions. in a second critical area, we
    are taking steps to more effectively manage the large fleet of vehicles our people need to operate
    and maintain the railroad. that initiative includes the use of telematics technology to enhance driver
    safety, fuel economy, and operational costs. a third critical area is improving energy use in our facilities.
    across our network, we’re upgrading facilities with more energy-efficient lighting and other technolo-
    gies to make them smarter, greener, and less expensive to operate. our $53-million energy-conversion
    project at juniata locomotive shop is a good example. with facilities across 22 states, this is a major
    undertaking that requires identification, prioritization, and investment. it won’t happen all at once, but
    we are committed to the task and focused on making progress, one step at a time.




               “we are part of the fabric of the communities where we
                 operate, and we want to add value by what norfolk
                        southern brings to our communities.”
                                            –bruno maestri




                                                                                                                    5

                                           2016 sustainability report
                                           progress / dashboard




                                      progress
                                              2015 dashboard

                 how norfolk southern advanced
                 sustainable transportation in 2015



                                       planet: environmental performance


                                      reducing emissions
                                      • introduced the eco locomotive, a new class of recycled locomotives equipped with
                                         new low-emission engines that reduce nox and particulate matter.
                                      • rolled out the “sleeper,” a custom engine-heating system that eliminates unnecessary
                                         locomotive idling in rail yards in winter months.
                                      • expanded a rebuild program to create engineless locomotives that provide emissions-free
                                         pulling power when coupled with a diesel locomotive.
read more                             • reached 80 percent of ghg-reduction goal.
                                      • produced 1.9 percent fewer ghg emissions from business operations versus 2014.
                                      • achieved 7 percent reduction in nonlocomotive scope 1 emissions.


fuel efficiency
• locomotives in revenue service moved a ton of freight an average of 410 miles on
   a gallon of diesel. locomotives in all work activities consumed an average of 1.28
   gallons per 1,000 gross ton-miles.
• set a 2020 locomotive fuel-efficiency goal to reduce fuel consumption by $80 million.
• since 2011, improved locomotive fuel efficiency by 3 percent per 1,000 gross ton-miles.


                                                                                                                   read more




                                                                                                                                   6

                                           2016 sustainability report
                                           progress / dashboard




                                       planet: environmental performance


                                      carbon conservation
                                      • completed a five-year, $5.6 million environmental partnership in the mississippi
                                         delta to reforest 10,000 acres of former woodlands with 6.04 million trees. the
                                         trees eventually will generate carbon credits equal to nearly 20 percent of norfolk
                                         southern’s annual ghg emissions.
                                      • launched an initiative to restore 290 acres of historic wetlands in coastal south
                                         carolina that will create wildlife habitat, restore natural water hydrology, and generate
                                         wetlands mitigation-bank credits that can be sold to support economic development.
read more



energy efficiency
• generated 6 percent fewer emissions from purchased electricity sources.
• completed lighting upgrade projects at 31 railroad facilities expected to generate
   annual energy and maintenance savings of $2.1 million and reduce annual co₂
   emissions by more than 9,500 metric tons.



                                                                                                                      read more




                                       prosperity: economic performance


                                      financials
                                      • generated $10.5 billion in railway operating revenues.
                                      • returned more than $700 million in dividends to shareholders.




read more



economic development
• helped locate 61 new and expand 32 existing industries in 20 states, representing
   $4.2 billion in industry investment, 6,000 customer jobs, and an estimated 88,974
   additional carloads of business valued at more than $212 million.
• generated an employee payroll of more than $2.3 billion and made purchases and
   tax payments totaling more than $6.3 billion across its 22-state operating territory.


                                                                                                                      read more




                                                                                                                                     7

                                         2016 sustainability report
                                         progress / dashboard




                                     prosperity: economic performance


                                    rail efficiencies
                                    • announced a five-year strategic plan setting 2020 goals focused on achieving
                                       operating efficiencies, cost savings, and revenue growth.
                                    • improved composite customer service performance by 3 percent, including
                                       on-schedule delivery.



read more



capital investment
• invested $2.4 billion in capital projects to enhance customer service and grow
   the business.




                                                                                                              read more



                                    supply chain value
                                    • purchased $4.2 billion in supplies and equipment, generating income for more than
                                       6,700 supplier businesses.
                                    • increased purchases from minority- and women-owned business suppliers by 7
                                       percent.



read more



corporate philanthropy
• $13.7 million in combined norfolk southern foundation, corporate, and business
   giving to support human service needs, arts and culture, environment, and education
   in communities served by the railroad.




                                                                                                              read more




                                                                                                                           8

                                          2016 sustainability report
                                          progress / dashboard




                                            people: social performance


                                      safety
                                      • recorded a 13 percent decline in reportable employee injuries.
                                      • introduced new risk-factor safety training program for workforce.
                                      • launched telematics pilot to enhance vehicle fleet safety.
                                      • created a new employee safety message, "i am coming home," to personalize safety.


read more



workforce
• established employee diversity and inclusion councils in each of ns’
   10 operating divisions.
• hired record numbers of female management trainees and conductor trainees.
• recruited military veterans, who comprised 15 percent of all new hires.
• achieved wellness milestone, with employees taking more than 19 billion steps –
   equal to 497 trips over ns’ 20,000 miles of rail – as part of the company’s health
   and wellness program.                                                                                           read more



                                      community
                                      • recorded more than 2,500 hours of community service through the company’s
                                         formal thoroughbred volunteers program.
                                      • helped train nearly 4,800 local emergency responders in 18 states in safe response
                                         to potential incidents involving transport of commercial freight regulated as
                                         hazardous material.
                                      • sponsored training for 80 first responders on safe response to potential crude-by-rail
                                         incidents – part of a three-year rail industry effort in which ns so far has invested
read more
                                         $800,000 in training nearly 220 emergency responders who live and work in
                                         communities where crude trains operate.
                                      • raised public awareness about highway-rail grade crossing safety and the dangers
                                         of trespassing on railroad property, including whistle stop train tours in ohio and
                                         the carolinas, and a train your brain campaign in georgia.




                                                                                                                                  9

                                 2016 sustainability report
                                 progress / reporting & materiality




                            progress
                            reporting & materiality

about this report
norfolk southern corporation’s ninth annual sustainability report discloses its significant environmental,
social, and economic impacts during 2015 and the first half of 2016. the report, designed to be viewed
online, offers transparency into ns’ sustainability performance and is intended to help stakeholders
assess ns’ commitment to corporate social responsibility.

information in this report is in accordance with the global reporting initiative’s g4 core level guidelines.

we want to hear from you: norfolk southern, a publicly traded enterprise headquartered in norfolk,
va., welcomes stakeholder feedback on this report. comments and questions may be emailed to
footprints@nscorp.com


third-party ghg emissions review
norfolk southern aims to provide transparency in disclosing its greenhouse gas emissions to interested
stakeholders. for the fifth consecutive reporting year, ns engaged auditing firm kpmg llp to review
the railroad’s ghg emissions data.

read kpmg’s review letter and ns’ 2015 ghg emissions report.

more information about ns’ carbon footprint and efforts to reduce emissions can be found in this
report’s planet section.

ns’ core sustainability issues
norfolk southern’s sustainability vision is to perpetuate our corporate longevity and success for the
benefit of our customers, investors, the communities we serve, and our people.

topics covered in this report are considered the most relevant to achieving a healthy balance between
ns’ business imperatives as a publicly traded company and its environmental and social commitments
as a responsible corporate citizen.

this report is structured around ns’ core sustainability issues, described by the global reporting initiative’s
g4 guidelines as material issues. ns identified core issues through an informal process that included
interviews with senior management, goals outlined in the company’s five-year strategic plan, and
stakeholder outreach. for future reports, ns plans to conduct a formal materiality assessment involving
internal and external stakeholders.




                                                                                                                  10

                                                  2016 sustainability report
                                                  progress / reporting & materiality




                issues that matter most


                                    planet
                                    • locomotive fuel efficiency                      • environmental partnerships
                                    • diesel emissions                                • energy-efficient operations



                                    prosperity
                                    • shareholder value                               • community philanthropy
                                    • customer service                                • corporate integrity
                                    • resource stewardship



                                    people
                                    • workplace safety                                • healthy, well-trained workforce
                                    • safe operations in communities                  • diversity and inclusion




          ns’ sustainability chain
          norfolk southern’s sustainability program is overseen by the environmental policy council, a committee
          comprising senior management, department heads, and the corporate sustainability officer. the council
          chair is appointed by and reports directly to the ceo, who chairs the company’s board of directors.

          in 2015, jim hixon, executive vice president law and corporate relations, was appointed council chair.
          in addition to sustainability, the council oversees the company’s compliance with state and federal
          environmental rules and regulations and with corporate policies regarding environmental issues.

          the council reviews best practices in corporate sustainability and examines what industry peers are
          doing to reduce business impacts on the environment. the council also ensures that all operations
          departments are aware of and contributing to the company’s sustainability efforts.




forward-looking statements
certain statements in this sustainability report are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the “safe harbor” provisions of the private
securities litigation reform act of 1995, as amended. these statements relate to future events or our future financial performance and involve
known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance, or our achievements
or those of our industry to be materially different from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements.

in some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as “may,” “will,” could,” “would,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,”
“anticipate,” “intend,” “believe,” “estimate,” “project,” “consider,” “predict,” “potential,” “feel,” or other comparable terminology. we have based
these forward-looking statements on our current expectations, assumptions, estimates, beliefs, and projections. while we believe these
expectations, assumptions, estimates, beliefs, and projections are reasonable, such forward-looking statements are only predictions and
involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which involve factors or circumstances that are beyond our control. these and
other important factors, including those discussed under “risk factors” in our latest form 10-k, as well as our subsequent filings with the
securities and exchange commission, may cause actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or
implied by these forward-looking statements.

the forward-looking statements herein are made only as of the date they were first issued, and unless otherwise required by applicable securities
laws, we disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future
events, or otherwise. copies of our press releases and additional information about us are available at www.norfolksouthern.com, or you can
contact norfolk southern corporation investor relations at 757-629-2861.




                                                                                                                                                       11

                                              2016 sustainability report
                                              progress / stakeholder engagement




                                        progress
                                     stakeholder engagement

engaging stakeholders
norfolk southern recognizes the importance of engaging stakeholders and uses their feedback to take action and improve performance.
following is a list of the company’s key stakeholders, how the company interacts with them, and topics discussed in 2015.

 stakeholder group                        ways ns engages                                    key topics in 2015
 employees                  • online employee resource center/operations        • safety and customer service
                              web portal                                        • renovations at norfolk and atlanta corporate
                            • daily email of ns/industry news                     offices to consolidate office locations from
                            • 24/7 nstv internal television station               three to two to streamline business operations
                                                                                  and enhance workplace environments
                            • ceo town hall meetings/executive leadership
                              visits                                            • enhanced online career/learning center
                            • online ceo q&a forum                              • diversity & inclusion
                            • daily job and safety briefings                    • efforts to hire more women in management
                                                                                  and craft positions
                            • local safety and service committee meetings

 customers                  • electronic survey of ns’ top 200 to 250           • service issues related to network congestion,
                              customers                                           particularly on ns’ northern region
                            • operations service and support group              • response to weather-related service issues,
                            • service updates on ns’ corporate website            including severe flooding in south carolina
                            • visits/calls by marketing representatives         • competitive pricing
                            • on-site safety and service visits by transporta- • conversion of freight from highway to rail
                              tion department supervisors and train crews      • reducing transportation-related carbon
                            • customer forum outreach by senior leader-          emissions
                               ship, operating personnel, and account
                               representatives

 shareholders/              • quarterly earnings calls and annual meeting       • creating long-term shareholder value
 investors                  • senior leadership on-site meetings and office     • ns stock performance
                              calls with large investors                        • revenue and expense trends
                            • investor relations office                         • canadian pacific railway’s unsolicited proposal
                            • corporate website investors’ page                   to acquire ns (dropped in 2016)
                            • investor days
                            • industry conferences
                            • shareholder proposals




                                                                                                                                      12

                                            2016 sustainability report
                                            progress / stakeholder engagement




 stakeholder group                        ways ns engages                                      key topics in 2015
 communities                • training for local police, fire, and ems on safe   • highway-rail grade crossing safety
                              response to potential rail incidents               • trespasser prevention
                            • outreach by government relations and public        • safe transport of hazardous materials,
                              relations teams                                      including crude oil
                            • thoroughbred speakers bureau                       • locomotive engine-idling
                            • norfolk southern foundation community              • local traffic delays caused by trains stopped at
                              grants                                               railroad crossings
                            • employee volunteerism, including thorough-         • closure of corporate office building in
                              bred volunteers                                      roanoke, va., to consolidate office locations
                                                                                   from three to two to streamline business
                                                                                   operations

 government                 • government relations teams in washington           • safe transport of hazmat
                              and states where ns operates                       • implementation of positive train control
                            • ongoing dialogue with regulators and               • balanced industry regulation
                              policy-makers
                                                                                 • public-private partnerships to reduce locomo-
                                                                                   tive diesel emissions

 nongovernmental            • environmental partnerships, including carbon       • wetlands protection
 organizations                mitigation and water quality in the chesa-         • water quality in the chesapeake bay water-
                              peake bay watershed                                  shed
                            • outreach by cso and corporate sustainability       • carbon mitigation through ns’ green trees
                              group                                                program
                            • funding for clean coal research and develop-       • ns’ lambert's point coal terminal
                              ment
                                                                                 • alternative fuel technologies
                            • norfolk southern foundation grants to
                              support education, diversity, and inclusiveness

 industry/suppliers         • active participation in the association of         • reducing the environmental impacts of
                              american railroads, the rail industry trade          railroad operations
                              organization                                       • locomotive fuel efficiency
                            • co-sponsor of annual railroad sustainability       • safety of railroad operations
                              symposium
                                                                                 • supplier sustainability practices
                            • page for prospective suppliers on ns’ corpo-
                                                                                 • increasing supplier diversity
                              rate website
                            • supplier partnerships on innovative business
                              solutions


want to know more?
norfolk southern foundation, corporate, and business grants in 2015
ns 2015 corporate and good government fund political contributions
ns 2015 corporate contributions to trade associations




                                                                                                                                      13

                               2016 sustainability report
                               progress / governance




                           progress
                                      governance

good governance
norfolk southern is committed to leadership in good corporate governance in the workplace, the
marketplace, and the communities where the company operates.

the company holds its board of directors, senior managers, and employees to the highest standards of
ethical behavior. the company’s thoroughbred code of ethics and spirit values – safety, performance,
integrity, respect, innovation, and teamwork – provide the foundation for business conduct and relation-
ships with shareholders, customers, co-workers, suppliers, competitors, and other stakeholders.

guided by these core principles, ns creates long-term economic, environmental, and social value that
benefits the company and its stakeholders.

more information on governance
visit norfolk southern’s corporate website for details on:

board of directors

risk management

thoroughbred code of ethics

governance documents


leadership changes
during 2015 and early 2016, norfolk southern transitioned smoothly to a new senior executive
management team that reflects the company’s tradition of developing and promoting leaders from within.

• jim squires, a 23-year ns veteran, became the company’s new chief executive officer, june 1, 2015,
   and chairman of the board of directors, oct. 1, 2015. during his first six months as ceo, squires led
   development and implementation of a five-year strategic plan and oversaw a return of ns’ freight rail
   service to near all-time best performance levels.

• alan shaw, who joined ns in 1994, became executive vice president and chief marketing officer,
   may 16, 2015.

• cindy earhart, an ns employee since 1985 and named executive vice president administration in
   2013, assumed the additional duties of chief information officer, oct. 1, 2015.

• mike wheeler, who joined ns in 1985 as a research engineer, became executive vice president and
   chief operating officer, feb. 1, 2016.




                                                                                                           14

prosperity

                                2016 sustainability report
                                prosperity / a message from our ceo




                        prosperity
                          a message from our ceo




jim squires
chairman, president and ceo

thanks for visiting norfolk southern’s 2016 sustainability report and for your interest in learning
more about what efficiency looks like at our railroad.

efficiently moving freight trains across our 22-state network is a cornerstone of sustainability at
norfolk southern. it’s about turning challenges into daily opportunities – keeping our people and
communities safe, providing unequalled customer service, and being a good steward of the resources
that contribute to our success as a business enterprise. providing reliable, cost-efficient, and environ-
mentally friendly rail service ensures that we remain a vital link in the nation’s freight transportation
network for years to come, efficiently moving the goods that keep our economy moving.

in the nine years since norfolk southern adopted a formal sustainability program – we were the
first large u.s. railroad to appoint a corporate sustainability officer – we have embedded sustainable
practices into our corporate strategy. we recognize that sustainability is not something you just bolt
on: to be most impactful, sustainability has to be entwined in daily operations in ways that advance our
business goals and honor our environmental and social commitments as a responsible corporate citizen.

examples of how we achieve that balance are found in this report. in 2015, for instance, we rolled out
a new class of low-emission eco locomotives, recycling older frames to save on costs while helping
communities comply with their commitments and obligations under the federal clean air act.



           “efficiently moving freight trains across our 22-state network
               is a cornerstone of sustainability at norfolk southern.”
                                            –jim squires




                                                                                                            16

                                         2016 sustainability report
                                         prosperity / a message from our ceo




        for the first time, we adopted a locomotive fuel-efficiency goal, setting a 2020 target to reduce diesel
        consumption equal to $80 million annually. achieving that goal will help us meet another key objective –
        lowering greenhouse gas emissions from locomotive operations, our biggest environmental impact. to
        reduce that impact, we are investing in engine-handling technologies, an innovative locomotive rebuild
        program, and network efficiencies that in turn reduce our bottom-line expenses.

        norfolk southern also made gains in social performance in 2015. workplace injuries declined as we
        introduced a new safety theme, “i am coming home,” that makes safety personal. for the second
        consecutive year, we hired record numbers of women in our management trainee and conductor
        trainee programs. along with that, we formed employee diversity and inclusion councils in each of the
        company’s 10 operating divisions, recognizing that our future success depends on recruiting a
        workforce that reflects the diversity of the communities we serve.



                                                                                                 workplace injuries
2020 target set to reduce                       record numbers                                declined as we introduced
   diesel consumption
                                                of women hired                                   a new safety theme,
equal to $80 million                             in our management                             “i am coming home.”
    annually                                    trainee & conductor                          that makes safety personal
                                                  trainee programs


        since my appointment as ceo in 2015, norfolk southern has adopted a five-year strategic plan that
        further integrates sustainability into business operations. the plan focuses on the three pillars of our
        business model: safety and service, stewardship of resources through operating efficiencies, and growth.
        to be sustainable as a business enterprise, we have to deliver on each of these strategic priorities.

        with a business history approaching two centuries, we realize that meeting the service needs of our
        customers is the key to longevity. by operating safely, we help ensure a successful future for our
        customers, our communities, and ourselves.

        under our corporate umbrella, we are stewards of many resources: our people, our physical assets, and
        all the goods and services that we consume as a business. given the large resource footprint that is
        characteristic of our company and the rail industry – the tracks, trains, and facilities across our operating
        territory – it is critical that we remain focused on being a conscientious caretaker of those resources.

        norfolk southern traces its roots to a small railroad in south carolina that began operating in the 1830s,
        the earliest days of railroading. now, as we embrace the challenges and opportunities of a 21st century
        global marketplace, we are committed to achieving industry leadership in sustainability. we want to be
        a good steward of the environment and drive our business forward at the same time, a formula that
        spells success for us and for our key stakeholders – investors, customers, employees, communities,
        suppliers, industry partners, and government agencies.

        at norfolk southern, that’s what we call efficiency.




        jim squires
        chairman, president and ceo




                                                                                                                          17

                                2016 sustainability report
                                prosperity / strategy & performance




                       prosperity
        2015 strategy & performance scorecard

                                              adopted
reported operating                                                              paid $700+
    revenue of                            five-year
                                                                                 million
$10.5 billion                            strategic plan
                                         for operations                            in dividends



strategic plan drives service, efficiency, growth
in december 2015, norfolk southern announced a five-year strategic plan that sets targets for the
company’s economic performance through 2020. developed by jim squires, who became ceo june 1,
along with the senior management team and board of directors, the plan followed a comprehensive
evaluation of the company’s business model.

the plan is based on the core competencies of ns’ business: safety and service; revenue growth; and
stewardship of resources through productivity and operating efficiencies. the conservative and flexible
plan enables the company to make adjustments to meet performance targets amid changing economic
cycles and business markets.

the aim is to achieve ongoing operational efficiencies that result in a faster, more fluid, and lower-cost
railroad. improving network velocity enables ns to deliver superior service, create track capacity for
volume growth, and generate cost savings that benefit the bottom line. a key target is to achieve an
annual operating ratio below 65 percent. the ratio is a measure of operating expenses as a percentage
of total revenue – the lower the ratio, the better.




                                                                                                             18

                                  2016 sustainability report
                                  prosperity / strategy & performance




the plan’s focus areas include:

• managing the workforce and facilities – including yards, terminals, and rail lines – based on business
   market demands. streamlining operations around ns’ coal business, which has declined in volume
   over the past four years, is a key part of the plan.

• reducing the size of the locomotive and freight car fleets. the strategy includes replacing older, less
   reliable locomotives with new units and continuing ns’ innovative locomotive rebuild program to
   enhance the efficiency and reliability of its road fleet.

• improving locomotive fuel efficiency through a combination of onboard energy-management
   technologies, such as leader, improved network velocity, and operation of fewer locomotives.


                              key 2020 targets of five-year plan


     operating            productivity            locomotive fuel                     capital
       ratio:               savings:             efficiency savings:                 spending:
     below
                          $650                        $80                           17%
     65%                  million                    million                    of revenue




                                      learn more details
                                      more information about norfolk southern’s five-year strategic plan and 2015
                                      business highlights can be found on its corporate website and in filings with the
                                      securities and exchange commission.

                                      2015 annual report and form 10-k

                                      norfolk southern sec filings




organizational changes generate efficiencies, growth opportunities
norfolk southern made organizational changes during 2015 that streamlined operations and created
opportunities to grow the business. in three of the most significant, the company:

• consolidated corporate office locations from three to two. ns closed its roanoke, va., office building
   and moved approximately 500 job positions to ns’ corporate headquarters office in downtown norfolk
   and its operations office in midtown atlanta. the move reduces operating costs, creates opportunities
   for employee career development and advancement, and generates business benefits by collocating
   employees within the same departments into single locations.

• restructured triple crown services to focus the ns subsidiary’s business on door-to-door movement of
   automobile parts. based in fort wayne, ind., triple crown services specializes in the use of roadrailer®
   trailers that move on road and rail. the restructuring reduces operating costs and achieves operating
   efficiencies by channeling its nonauto parts business onto ns’ conventional intermodal network.

• acquired a 282-mile mainline stretch of track in pennsylvania and new york from the delaware &
   hudson railway. the investment strengthens ns’ competitive position in the northeast and opens
   opportunities for long-term growth, in particular for intermodal, automotive, and energy markets and
   for business shared with short line railroad partners.




                                                                                                                          19

                                                  2016 sustainability report
                                                  prosperity / strategy & performance




   strong network supports future growth


 norfolk southern’s 
 network interfaces with:                          ~20,000                 22 states                      43 ports
 • more than 50 percent of u.s.                   route miles of track      served by network            served by network
   population, manufacturing, and
   energy consumption
 • estimated 50m+ long-haul truck
   shipments in our service area*
 • extensive port access                                                                     population


 volume mix
 (trailing 12-months 3/31/16)

      coal                       general
      14%                       merchandise
                                   34%




intermodal
    52%
*represents 500 miles or more




               creating shareholder value
               in 2015, norfolk southern returned more than $700 million to shareholders in dividend payouts,
               representing a 6 percent increase in dividends per share for the year. further enhancing shareholder
               value, ns repurchased $1.1 billion of company stock to retire 11.3 million shares.

               through 2015, ns has paid dividends for 134 consecutive quarters – every quarter since the
               company’s inception in 1982. dividend increases have produced a 10-year compound annual
               growth rate of 17 percent.


                     2015 economic impact by the numbers
                     (numbers in millions, except per-share amounts)

                     for the year                                           2013             2014           2015
                     railway operating revenues                           $11,245         $11,624         $10,511
                     net income                                            $1,910          $2,000          $1,556
                     dividends per share                                    $2.04            $2.22          $2.36
                     dividend payout ratio (as % of net income)              33%              34%            46%
                     stockholders’ equity                                 $11,289         $12,408         $12,188
                     debt-to-total capitalization ratio                    45.4%              42%          45.3%




                                                                                                                              20

                    2016 sustainability report
                    prosperity / strategy & performance




                                       2015 railway operating revenues
                                               by market group
                                           total: $10. 5 billion*
7% paper/clay/
                                                      *numbers are rounded
forest products: $771 million




9% automotive: $969 million
                                            23% intermodal: $2.4 billion

12% metals/
construction: $1.3 billion




15% agriculture/                                  17% coal: $1.8 billion
consumer products/
government: $1.5 billion


                                             17% chemicals: $1.8 billion




                                                                             21

                                2016 sustainability report
                                prosperity / customer service




                        prosperity
                 2015 customer service scorecard

improved                         achieved near                            adopted long-term
composite
                           record levels                                     initiatives to
 service
                             of service                                enhance
   3%                                  by 4q                       customer service

 measuring customer service
 as a freight rail transportation company, norfolk southern’s success hinges on customer service. ns’
 daily goal is to provide on-time, consistent, and reliable delivery of customers’ goods, which helps them
 achieve their business goals.

 after a challenging 2014, ns returned service levels to near record-best highs in 2015. as a result of
 ongoing operational improvements, ns boosted its fourth-quarter service performance by double
 digits compared with the same period in 2014.

 to ensure customer expectations are met, ns uses three primary performance metrics – composite
 service, train speed, and terminal dwell. they offer a good overview of how well the company is
 meeting schedules and using assets. the metrics are updated weekly and shared with employees
 across the company, allowing the workforce to track progress and performance.




                                                                                                             22

                            2016 sustainability report
                            prosperity / customer service




          near record service levels in 2015
                                     4q 2014 vs. 4q 2015


composite service                   average train speed                         average terminal dwell
     24%                                  17%                                                21%


                77.9%                                    23.0                           29.8
                                                         mph                            hours
                                           19.7
  62.8%                                                                                               23.6
                                           mph
                                                                                                      hours




  2014 vs. 2015                           2014 vs. 2015                                  2014 vs. 2015




                            2015 composite service improved 3%



          83.1%    83.3%                                  all ns shipments have a trip plan, similar to an itinerary for
 75.9%                               72.0%
                           69.9%                          an airline flight. composite service performance combines
                                                          three metrics: the percentage of trains arriving on time as
                                                          scheduled on the trip plan; the percentage of customer
                                                          carload pickups and set-outs executed as scheduled; and
                                                          the percentage of customer carloads making scheduled
                                                          connections for delivery.
  11




           12




                    13




                            14




                                      15
 20




          20




                   20




                           20




                                     20




                                   2015 train speed improved 1%
                                                  (average mph)


           23.9     23.9                                  train speed provides a view of how smoothly and efficiently
  21.2                      21.2      21.5
                                                          trains move across the network. a high-velocity network
                                                          improves customer delivery times and lowers operating
                                                          costs. for example, the company needs fewer locomotives
                                                          and rail cars to move the same amount of freight and can
                                                          add network capacity without building additional tracks.
  11




          12




                    13




                            14




                                      15
 20




          20




                   20




                           20




                                     20




                           2015 terminal dwell time improved 1%
                                                  (average hours)


                            26.0      25.7
  24.5                                                    ns moves freight cars safely and as quickly as possible to
           21.6     21.6
                                                          achieve on-time delivery. as they move across the system,
                                                          freight cars are classified and assembled into trains at
                                                          terminals based on destination. dwell time measures how
                                                          long they remain in a terminal before departing on an
                                                          outbound train. the shorter the time, the better.
  11




          12




                    13




                            14




                                      15
 20




          20




                   20




                           20




                                     20




                                                                                                                           23

                                2016 sustainability report
                                prosperity / customer service




taking steps to improve customer service
from yard expansions and innovative technologies to a new locomotive reliability team, norfolk
southern in 2015 continued to take action that improves customer service and the company’s
long-term sustainability.

the following are highlights.

moorman yard expansion
norfolk southern began implementing network changes to
take advantage of a $160 million expansion completed in late
2014 that nearly doubled the size of moorman yard in
bellevue, ohio. now capable of handling 3,000 rail cars daily,
the facility has enabled ns to reduce car handling and switch-
ing, route miles, and delivery times – by as much as two days
for some customers.

the bellevue terminal, ns’ largest “hump” classification yard,
is strategically located along a rail corridor that connects
consumer-rich markets between chicago and new york. the
expansion has enabled ns to consolidate car handlings into
fewer yards and to build longer trains. in one measure of efficiency gains, car handlings in 2015 were
reduced by nearly 200 cars a day, generating annualized savings approaching $14 million.

bellevue’s added capacity has created opportunities to grow business volumes across ns’ northern
region and in other key network hubs. it also has improved network resiliency, providing more
flexibility to reroute traffic and minimize delays during winter storms affecting chicago and the
northern region.

more intermodal capacity
ns’ intermodal network links shippers to supply chains that span the globe, providing safe, fast, and
efficient rail service to ocean carriers, third-party logistics firms, truckload, less-than-truckload, and
parcel carriers. as intermodal volumes grow, ns continues to improve processes, employ innovative
                                           technologies, and make strategic capital investments to
                                           increase capacity and enhance service.

                                         in 2015, ns completed an expansion of its rutherford intermodal
                                         facility near harrisburg, pa., adding new loading, unloading, and
                                         support tracks and increasing parking capacity to handle more
                                         traffic volumes.

                                         ns also completed improvements to its calumet intermodal
                                         facility in chicago, including adding a lift track, support track
                                         capacity, and parking. these enhancements improve ns’
                                         ability to serve customers in the nation’s busiest rail hub.




                                                                                                             24

                                   2016 sustainability report
                                   prosperity / customer service




industry-leading technologies
ns began rolling out technology upgrades in 2015 that make
doing business with the railroad easier and faster. the single
largest effort, scheduled for completion in early 2017, involves a
redesign of accessns, the company’s main customer e-commerce
portal. another significant initiative is the railroad’s new optimized
intermodal terminal operating system, including an industry-first
mobile app for drayage truckers. at automotive distribution
facilities, ns began installing a high-tech optical scanning system
that gives auto customers and drayage drivers a real-time view
of vehicle shipments.

to ensure these next-generation technologies meet customer
needs, ns put customers in the driver’s seat. the company used customer surveys, recruited shipping
company volunteers for input on user experience, and rode along with drayage truckers at ns intermodal
facilities in chicago and atlanta to better understand their needs and concerns.

                                            expressns mobile app speeds business for intermodal shippers
                                            in 2015, norfolk southern introduced expressns, an industry-
                                            first mobile phone app that speeds truck drivers’ pickup and
                                            delivery of trailers and containers at ns intermodal facilities.
                                            these drayage truckers provide valuable first- and last-mile
                                            service for customers’ freight. moving them through ns’
                                            intermodal facilities more quickly means less idling, reduced
 learn more on the corporate website        fuel burn and costs, and reduced carbon emissions.
 about expressns and ns intermodal
 services.                             the mobile app and other technologies improve operating
                                       efficiencies at intermodal facilities and make them “greener.”
these improvements include express lanes and automatic gate systems outfitted with high-resolution
cameras and optical scanners for faster, more efficient processing of drayage trucks.

teaming up for locomotive reliability
a new locomotive reliability group formed in 2015 has one mission: to keep locomotives on the road
and out of repair shops. based in atlanta, a group of four teams helps mechanical shop employees
diagnose locomotive troubles and reduce repeat locomotive failures.

ns based the concept in part on a model developed by delta air lines to assist its airplane mechanics
with repairs. locomotives have event recorders – similar to an airplane’s “black box” – that shop
personnel can download and send to the reliability teams to troubleshoot problems. each team
specializes in one of ns’ four primary road locomotive models.

“the reliability teams spend their days studying the circuitry,
the computers, and the systems on one model of locomotive
– they know every nut and bolt and wire,” said doug corbin,
ns assistant vice president mechanical. “they help those
local mechanics dig down to the bottom of the problem.”

since forming the group, ns has seen a drop in repeat
locomotive failures and an increase in the mean days between
repair-shop visits for individual locomotives. each team has
developed standardized work procedures that provide a
checklist for shop employees to follow when a locomotive
arrives for repair and before it re-enters service.




                                                                                                               25

                               2016 sustainability report
                               prosperity / customer service




investing in reliable pulling power
norfolk southern is making significant investments to
improve the reliability of its locomotive fleet. these
initiatives include:

• a rebuild program to convert aging dash 9 locomotives
  from dc to ac power, a process that transforms the
  1990s and early 2000s units into like-new locomotives
  at about half the cost of buying new. using ac-powered
  traction motors boosts the locomotives’ pulling power,
  particularly at slow speeds, and enhances fuel efficiency.
  ns owns about 1,200 of the dash 9s, currently compris-
  ing nearly half of the railroad’s long-haul road fleet.

• a plan to purchase 50 new ac locomotives, including 47 units in 2016 equipped with tier 4 emissions
  technology, meeting epa’s latest and most stringent emissions standards. ge transportation, the
  locomotive manufacturer, says the high-performance locomotives cut emissions of nitrogen oxides
  and particulate matter by at least 70 percent compared with tier 3 locomotives – one more way that
  ns helps customers reduce their supply-chain emissions.




                                                                                                         26

                                             2016 sustainability report
                                             prosperity / economic engine




                                      prosperity
                              2015 economic engine scorecard

                         61                                     32                         $4.2 billion
                new industries                     industry expansions                   industry investment


              $8.7 billion                                  88,974                                 6,193
          ns payroll, purchases,                   additional carloads                    new customer jobs
                and taxes


             helping communities prosper
             in 2015, norfolk southern contributed to industrial development
             projects that created jobs and business growth across 20 of its
             22 operating states.

             working with customers and local and state economic
             development officials, ns helped locate 61 new and expand
             32 existing industries along its rail lines. these projects pumped
             more than $4.2 billion in industry investment into communities
             large and small, generated more than 6,000 new customer jobs,
             and added to ns’ top-line growth – an estimated 88,974 additional
             carloads of business valued at more than $212 million.

             the two largest projects in terms of jobs and investment
             involved automotive assembly plants: mercedes-benz usi
             invested $2 billion to expand production of its c-class models at vance, ala., while ford motor co.
             invested $1.1 billion to expand production of f-150 pickups at its claycomo, mo., plant.

             agricultural projects served by ns’ grain franchise – including elevators, feed mills, and food processing
             plants – accounted for nearly one-quarter of the rail carload growth. while u.s. energy production slowed
             in 2015, 12 projects associated with ns’ ethanol, natural gas, crude oil, wood pellet, and coal markets
             were among 19 expected to generate more than $3 million each in annual railroad revenues.




                                         “our goal is to help communities be successful. if our communities
                                          are doing well from an industrial standpoint, it bodes well for us.”
                                                                       –jason reiner,
learn more about how ns’ industrial                   assistant vice president industrial development
development group supports
customers and communities.




                                                                                                                          27

                                                  2016 sustainability report
                                                  prosperity / economic engine




ns’ 2015 economic footprint
the positive economic impacts generated by norfolk southern’s business operations ripple through
states and local communities across the eastern u.s. in 2015, ns financed a payroll of more than
$2.3 billion and paid taxes and made purchases totaling more than $6.3 billion.

                                                                        total taxes,
                              total                                      purchases,               miles of
                            number of               total                 & other                  road                  industry         new
                            employees              payroll(a)           payments(b,c)            operated              investment       customer
 state                        paid(a)           (in thousands)          (in thousands)           12/31/15             (in thousands)      jobs     carloads
 alabama                          1,779            $117,916                $107,572                    1,304         $2,213,000           1,520      3,099
 delaware                            132                 8,738                 22,601                     203                     $60         0       453
 florida                             200               11,819                  73,316                     149
 georgia                          5,040              374,214                 467,857                   1,719            $124,090            254    10,230
 illinois                         1,642              109,656              1,466,857                    1,256               $32,853           33      5,338
 indiana                          2,689              187,124                 151,560                   1,441            $141,550            181      2,490
 iowa                                  15                   822                  6,267                      43                  $375          3      6,000
 kentucky                         1,190                80,184                105,789                      429           $120,024             82      1,110
 louisiana                             85                4,970                   8,822                      76
 maryland                            158                 9,834                 57,804                     269                $2,390           0       386
 michigan                            778               54,702                  49,546                     487                $3,630           6      2,815
 mississippi                         276               16,919                  20,737                     211                   $250         15      4,000
 missouri                            636               40,217                130,053                      409        $1,110,366           3,518      2,752
 new jersey                          212               14,329                  96,037                     931              $80,000           22      3,800
 new york                            496               30,084                  85,989                     890              $10,000            1          1
 north carolina                   1,321                85,052                359,951                   1,193               $54,452          144      8,073
 ohio                             4,215              282,420                 613,953                   2,142               $52,557          105      9,596
 pennsylvania                     5,295              348,619                 952,850                   2,406               $97,027           63    23,209
 south carolina                      722               47,803                  43,256                     762                $5,050          59      1,800
 tennessee                        1,834              124,814                 121,799                      827           $148,815            102      1,652
 virginia                         4,537              363,426                 254,870                   1,992               $14,503           40       522
 west virginia                       963               67,425                  55,090                     806                $3,251          45      1,648
 all other                             80                5,722            1,078,988                           4
 total                          34,295          $2,386,809              $6,331,564                  19,949           $4,214,247           6,193    88,974
(a) employment based on w-2’s state of residence.
(b) taxes include state income, property, sales and use, franchise, and other miscellaneous taxes.
(c) total purchases includes capital items, rolling stock, joint facility, employee claims, and legal fees. payroll is not included.




                                                                                                                                                              28

                                          2016 sustainability report
                                          prosperity / economic engine




capital investment generates economic returns
for every dollar of operating revenue generated in 2015, norfolk southern reinvested approximately
23 cents into capital projects to enhance service and grow the business. that investment totaled
$2.4 billion.

the company prioritizes capital investment among four strategic areas to achieve performance goals.
the focus is to:

• maintain existing and purchase new assets, including rail and track infrastructure, locomotives, and
   freight cars.
• ensure consistent and reliable customer service.
• improve and enhance operational efficiencies and productivity.
• facilitate growth in targeted markets.

while strengthening ns’ franchise, these investments create a multiplier of economic benefits for
communities across the railroad’s operating network. they provide income to ns suppliers and their
employees, generate tax revenues for state and
local governments, and create an economic
climate that supports jobs and development.                                 2020 target: 17%
the largest portion of ns’ 2015 capital budget went                                       percentage of annual revenue ns’
to maintain track infrastructure: with 35,000 miles                                       five-year strategic plan targets for
of yard and road track, ns’ business is capital-
intensive. the railroad installed 523 miles of new
rail, replaced 2.4 million crossties, and resurfaced
                                                                  17%                     capital investments to deliver best-
                                                                                          in-class service. in 2015, ns invested
                                                                                          about 23 percent of revenue in
5,074 miles of track with approximately 2.6 million                                       capital projects.
tons of ballast.




                                    2015 capital investments

                       8% locomotives: $183 million                2% technology: $56 million
                       locomotive emissions kits, rebuilds, and
                                                                   installing leader train-handling technology
                       dc-to-ac traction motor conversions
                                                                   on locomotives, adding network storage
                                                                   capacity, and computer hardware

                8% other projects: $187 million
                various communications and signals projects                37% maintenance of way: $881 million
                at yards, terminals, and grade crossings
                                                                           rail, crossties, ballast replacements, and
                                                                           bridge projects

      9% facilities/terminals: $223 million
      facility expansions and renovations, yard
      improvements, and environmental protection projects



           10% positive train control: $230 million
           installing ptc technology on locomotives and
           wayside communications and signals systems                          14% freight cars: $345 million
                                                                               replacements and acquisitions for
                                                                               volume growth



                                                                  12% infrastructure: $295 million
                                                                  improvements to support growth, track sidings and
                                                                  connections for added capacity and operational
                                                                  eﬃciencies, and switch and signal upgrades




                                                                                                                                   29

                                       2016 sustainability report
                                       prosperity / supply chain




                                     prosperity
                     2015 supply purchases scorecard

      purchased                                     supported                          increased spend with
  $4.05 billion                                       6,717                         minority- and women-owned
in supplies and services                             suppliers                             businesses by
                                                                                                       7%


      generating supply-chain value
      norfolk southern is a critical link in the u.s. commercial freight
      supply chain. customers that rely on ns to safely and efficiently
      move their goods to market are a critical part of the railroad’s
      value chain. important to ns’ business success as well are
      thousands of companies that supply diesel fuel, equipment,
      materials, and a multitude of services the railroad needs for
      daily operations as a transportation services company.

      in 2015, ns distributed $4.05 billion into the economy to
      purchase goods and services from 6,717 suppliers. five
      suppliers accounted for nearly 20 percent of the total spend.
      two supplied ns with diesel fuel, while the other three
      provided things such as locomotives and locomotive parts,
      freight cars and car parts, roadway track equipment, and
      engineering services.

      ns purchased $217 million in goods from minority- and women-owned business suppliers in 2015, a
      7 percent increase over the $203 million spent in 2014. the total includes $157 million for women-owned
      businesses, $13 million for small businesses, $8.7 million for black-owned businesses, nearly $7 million for
      asian-owned businesses, nearly $6 million for hispanic-owned businesses, and $19 million for labor
      surplus area businesses. lsa businesses are in localities designated by the u.s. department of labor
      as areas of high unemployment, where the goal of the federal program is to strengthen the nation’s
      economy by providing these communities with economic opportunities.




                                            green supply chain leader
                                            inbound logistics magazine named norfolk southern to its 2015
                                            75 green supply chain partners list – companies that “demonstrate
                                            green best practices in their supply chain, logistics, and transportation
                                            operations.” editors based the selection on measurable green results,
                                            sustainability innovation, continuous improvement, and industry recogni-
                                            tion. the magazine cited ns’ trees and trains carbon-mitigation program
                                            and its goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in business operations.




                                                                                                                        30

                               2016 sustainability report
                               prosperity / philanthropy




                       prosperity
                  2015 philanthropy scorecard

   $7.35 million                                                      $13.7 million
 5.3%↑ in ns foundation                                            combined foundation,
     giving over 2014                                            corporate, business giving


              466                                                              1,218
    foundation grants                                           foundation matching gifts




support for communities where employees live and work
the norfolk southern foundation, the company’s charitable giving arm, helps build stronger communities
across the railroad’s network. in 2015, the foundation donated nearly $7.4 million in grants to support
community health and human service needs, education, arts and culture, and the environment.

in combined foundation, corporate, and business giving, ns distributed more than $13.7 million to
organizations, including food banks, homeless shelters, universities, early childhood education,
museums, libraries, performing arts groups, local fire and police departments, economic development
groups, and conservationists.

under a matching gift program, the foundation in 2015 provided more than $1.7 million to nonprofits
to match employee and retiree donations. in addition, the corporation distributed more than $1 million
to tax-exempt organizations designated by employees as part of the company’s good government fund
matching contributions program. business giving in 2015 encompassed memberships and sponsorships,
including the american coalition for clean coal energy, the u.s. chamber of commerce, operation
lifesaver, and the national association of manufacturers.




                                                                                                          31

                           2016 sustainability report
                           prosperity / philanthropy




giving to help build stronger communities


          business & economic development                                  $3,662,116



          community relations                                              $3,022,085
          united way                                                       $1,723,450
          other health & human services                                    $1,298,635


          culture & arts                                                   $1,502,151




          education                                                        $1,136,607




          civic & community                                                  $612,234




          environment                                                        $326,000



          matching gifts (employees and retirees)                          $1,782,612
          education (250 institutions/552 gifts)                           $1,142,844
          culture & arts (202 organizations/623 gifts)                      $616,329
          environment (24 organizations/43 gifts)                             $23,439


          good government fund matching contributions                      $1,004,279




                               $152+ million in giving since 1983 start
                               learn more about the norfolk southern foundation and how to apply
                               for a grant on the corporate website.




                                                                                                   32

people

                             2016 sustainability report
                             people / workplace safety




                                   people

                       what efficiency looks like




making it home safely each and every day
in 2015, ns recommitted to an injury-free workplace, adopting a more personal approach. the
company introduced “i am coming home” as a new brand for its safety program. highlights from
this program include:


                                                                              more than
workplace injuries
                                                                            270 supervisors
   down 13%                                                                  led workshops for
                                                                               craft employees

                             employees who missed at least
                            one day of work due to an injury
                                   decreased by 22%




                         our “pause, process, proceed” is a newly
                         adopted safety tool introduced to
                         our workforce.




                                                                                                 34

                                       2016 sustainability report
                                       people / workplace safety




                                             people
                       2015 workplace safety scorecard

      recorded                                      launched                    introduced
13 percent fewer                      “i am coming home ”                 ™
                                                                              “risk factor”
  reportable injuries                             safety brand                  workshops




        making safety personal
        at norfolk southern offices, shops, rail yards, and field
        operations, the no. 1 goal every day is for each employee
        to go home safely.

        in 2015, ns recommitted to an injury-free workplace, adopting
        a more personal approach. the company introduced “i am
        coming home™” as a new brand for its safety program. as part of
        the campaign, all operations employees received a handwritten
        notecard from ns’ chief operating officer, with this message:

        “i want you to go home to your family every day safely, and i
        want them to know that at ns, safety means that you are coming
        home. what could be more important than getting home to
        our families and loved ones safely every day?”

        at work locations, “i am coming home” banners now are
        commonplace. ongoing employee engagement includes videos
        with key safety messages and employees sharing stories about
        working safely. ns has incorporated the brand into its safety
        vision statement: “we get home safe. every day. no job is so
        important and no service is so urgent that we cannot take the
        time to perform our work safely.”




               “when we’re working safely and looking out for each other, we’re making
              good business decisions. if i’m a shipper looking for a rail company to move
                     my product, i’m going to go with the one that is the safest.”
                        – jerry hall, vice president network and service management




                                                                                              35

                                             2016 sustainability report
                                             people / workplace safety




             taking risk into account
             in 2015, norfolk southern introduced “risk factor” training
             workshops that help operations employees recognize and
             safely manage risks they encounter daily.

             the interactive workshops – a full day for supervisors and
             a half day for craft employees – feature a three-step safety
             tool called “pause, process, and proceed.” employees pause to
             assess potential risks of a work task, process how to perform
             the task safely and effectively, and then proceed in the safest
             way possible.

             ns and dupont sustainable solutions developed the training. dupont trained more than 270 supervisors
             to lead workshops for craft employees. the training complements ns’ behavior-based safety program,
             which emphasizes positive reinforcement and coaching to promote safe work behaviors.

             “the ‘risk factor’ training acknowledges that creating another safety rule might not be the answer
             to preventing all injuries,” said jeremy bush, an assistant terminal superintendent who teaches the
                                           workshop to locomotive engineers and conductors. “our train and engine
                                           crews are very open to hearing that because it’s not as authoritative. we’re
                                           actively involved in a two-way conversation about risks and how we can
                                           make good choices for our safety every day.”

                                         “the goal is to help employees reduce injuries through a deliberate
                                         decision-making process that starts by acknowledging that risk exists,”
                                         said mike armstrong, a trainmaster and workshop instructor.
recognizing risk
                                         “own your decisions,” armstrong told train crews during a workshop at
“pause, process, proceed” is a
new safety tool introduced to the        crewe, va. “what you do out here affects you, your co-workers, and your
workforce during 2015.                   families. the public wants to know that the people operating a train through
                                         their neighborhood are doing it safely.”


             ns ergonomics: enhancing safety, efficiency, and the bottom line
             norfolk southern’s ergonomics program encourages employee innovation, teamwork, and problem-
             solving to enhance workplace safety and efficiency. employee successes are showcased in the annual
             ergo cup competition. in 2015, the competition drew 26 entries from mechanical department shops
             and 10 from engineering department teams.

             the winning teams made improvements to equipment and work processes
             that eliminated manual lifting, reduced the time required to perform tasks,
             and saved on operating costs. the winning engineering team, for example,
             designed a rail stabilizer carrier now being used by bridge maintenance crews
             systemwide. in addition to ergonomic benefits, the carrier boosts the company’s
             bottom line by reducing track downtime during bridge maintenance.

             “we try to get a domino effect with the ergo cup entries,” said don robinson,       2015 ergo cup winners
                                                                                                 norfolk southern employees
             manager safety and workplace design. “we go from one good idea in one
                                                                                                 demonstrate ingenuity in making
             location to a tool or work process improvement that benefits hundreds of
                                                                                                 work fit the employee.
             employees across the railroad.”




                                                                                                                                   36

                                   2016 sustainability report
                                   people / workplace safety




                    norfolk southern employee injury data

                                                         337                  349
                                                                                              303
                                           243                    232               241
             reportable injuries                                                                       187
                                                   175
             employees who lost work
             days due to an injury

                                                 12             13                  14              15
                                              20             20                 20                20




workplace injuries decline in 2015
down: 13 percent
norfolk southern’s “i am coming home” safety
campaign in 2015 coincided with a 13 percent             top 5 injuries in 2015
decline in reportable injuries. in addition to fewer     five types of injuries accounted for 80 percent
injuries, the number of employees who missed at          of employee reportable injuries.
least one day of work due to an injury decreased
by 22 percent.                                                       strain                            107
                                                                     bruise/contusion                   40
the company’s injury ratio for 2015 was 1.05
injuries per every 200,000 employee-hours of                         fracture                           37
service. that compares with 1.21 injuries in 2014                    laceration/cut                     33
and 1.17 injuries in 2013.                                           sprain                             25

tragically, norfolk southern experienced one
work-related employee fatality during the year. a 20-year-old conductor trainee coupling rail cars at a
customer facility in mississippi died after being struck by moving equipment on the track.

keeping safe in the field
around 80 percent of employees work in transportation, mechanical, and engineering, the railroad’s
three main operating departments. these groups operate 24/7 in conditions that include large moving
equipment, ballasted walking surfaces, and inclement weather.

ns’ safety program trains employees to recognize on-the-job risks and to perform tasks in accordance
with workplace safety rules and practices that emphasize situational awareness to guard against
injuries or incidents.

in 2015, mechanical employees, including those who repair and maintain locomotives and rail cars,
achieved the best safety performance, reporting 0.66 injuries per 200,000 employee-hours of service.
transportation employees, who include locomotive engineers and conductors, had the most improved
safety record, reducing their injury ratio by more than 30 percent. engineering employees, including
those who maintain track, bridges, and signals, experienced a slight uptick in reportable injuries.




                                                                                                             37

                                 2016 sustainability report
                                 people / workplace safety




telematics technology drives safety home – and saves fuel
norfolk southern owns and maintains a fleet of around 6,000 light-, medium-, and heavy-duty trucks, suvs,
and cars that employees use in field operations. that number ranks ns as a top 100 commercial
fleet. to enhance workplace safety, improve use, and reduce maintenance costs, the company is
using telematics technology to monitor driving behaviors.

a 2015 pilot program equipped 100 vehicles with the technology,
which uses gps and mobile cellular to track instances of hard
braking, hard acceleration, speeding above the posted limit,
and excessive speeding. employees were issued scorecards,
and performance improved across all metrics. in 2016, ns
plans to outfit an additional 2,600 vehicles with telematics.

“we’re constantly working to enhance safety at norfolk
southern, and this is another tool we’re putting in the toolbox,”
said mike waits, system manager vehicle fleet administration.
“the more cautious and conscientious you are driving at work,
the more that cascades to safer driving when it’s your spouse
or children in the vehicle with you.”

in addition to safety, ns is using the technology to reduce unnecessary vehicle idling, which will contribute
to the company’s fuel- and emissions-reduction goals. during the pilot, employees achieved a 4 percent
improvement overall in fuel economy. in 2015, ns’ vehicle fleet consumed more than 12 million gallons
of fuel at a cost of nearly $31 million – trimming 4 percent off the bill would save more than $1 million.

“when you’re talking about spending millions of dollars on fuel, even small reductions make an impact,”
waits said. “in a sustainability sense, it’s not just reduced consumption, but reduced emissions, too.”




                                                                                                                38

                                        2016 sustainability report
                                        people / diversity and inclusion




                                              people
                                 2015 diversity scorecard

                                                       formed                                            named
hired record number of
     women                             local diversity and                                           top 100
                                      inclusion councils                                  military friendly employer

                    hired                                                                    named
 509 military veterans –                                                      top 50 employer
          15% of total hires                                   by readers of careers & the disabled magazine


       to learn more about diversity and inclusion at norfolk southern visit the corporate website.




         ns takes grass-roots approach to diversity and inclusion
         norfolk southern recognizes the business benefits of a workplace where differing viewpoints,
         ideas, and experiences are valued and shared. in 2015, ns expanded efforts to promote a more
         diverse and inclusive company, establishing employee diversity and inclusion councils in each of
         the railroad’s 10 operating divisions.

         the purpose of these grass-roots councils is to promote a respectful workplace, contribute to
         business goals, and maximize employee potential. by year’s end, more than 200 employees were
         serving on the councils.

         “diversity influences norfolk southern’s performance,” said tom winter, manager diversity. “diversity with
         inclusiveness enables us to produce better results while attracting and retaining the best employees.”




                                                                                                                       39

                               2016 sustainability report
                               people / diversity and inclusion




                                  new employee resource group
                                  as another way to foster workplace diversity and inclusion, norfolk southern employees
                                  in 2015 formed the j. whitaker employee resource group. the group is named for the
                                  late john w. whitaker, the first african american locomotive engineer on the central of
                                  georgia railway and the first african american transportation officer on southern railway.
                                  through mergers and acquisitions, both railroads are part of ns’ network.

                                  open to all employees, the j. whitaker group aims to help ns attract, retain, and develop
                                  minority employees through mentoring and networking. the group joins other ns employee
                                  resource groups that are making a difference in the workplace and in communities the
                                  railroad serves. formed and led by employees, these ergs include groups with a focus on
                                  employees who are women, young professionals, veterans, and long-time railroaders.




more women joining operations workforce
in 2015, norfolk southern hired record numbers of female conductor trainees and management trainees.
more than 28 percent of management trainees hired during the year – 48 out of 169 – were women,
while more than 7 percent of conductor trainees – 154 out of 2,102 – were female.

“we’re better as a company when we have women
involved in our operations because of the diversity
of views and experience,” said mike wheeler, chief
operating officer. “a gender-diverse workforce
brings good ideas and viewpoints to the table,
which leads to better results.”

at ns’ fifth annual “women in field operations”
conference in april 2016, 90 female field supervisors
from across the company had a chance to network
and talk with senior executives, including ceo jim
squires, wheeler, and operations department vice
presidents. attendees included management trainees, yardmasters and trainmasters, mechanical and
track supervisors, and chief dispatchers.

over the two-day session, company executives discussed how these female workplace leaders can
positively impact safety, service, and stewardship at ns. other topics included career development
and women in leadership.

“we were fortunate to have this opportunity. this was clearly important to norfolk southern, and it was
very effective for the women there. women do feel supported,” said cassandra mullee, an eight-year
employee who joined as a management trainee. she has advanced to assistant superintendent of shire
oaks yard in pennsylvania, where she oversees trainmasters and around 250 train and engine employees.

overall, females comprise 5 percent of ns’ unionized workforce and 20 percent of management employees.
“ns is making progress to grow those numbers,” said annie adams, vice president human resources.

“being able to compete for the best talent is critical to norfolk southern’s success,” adams said.
“events like the women in field operations session demonstrate the commitment of the operations
departments’ vice presidents to retaining and developing women as leaders in field operations.”




                                                                                                                               40

                                 2016 sustainability report
                                 people / diversity and inclusion




in atlanta, a taste of india
since 2011, employees in norfolk southern’s
atlanta midtown office building have celebrated
diwali, courtesy of indian colleagues who share
the culture, clothing, and foods of india. about
80 employees and contractors of indian heritage
contributed to the 2015 celebration.

the celebration underscores the goals of the
grassroots diversity and inclusion councils that
ns established in its operating divisions in 2015.

“the whole idea is to give everybody else insight into
our culture and to make everyone realize that we can
come from all over the world, but basically we’re all
the same,” said rajshree doshi, technology analyst.

many employees wore traditional indian clothing, including such non-indians as fred ehlers, vice
president it. ehlers, attending his second diwali event, said the atlanta celebration is special because
it is an employee initiative.

“this is the best kind of diversity event because it happened on its own without prompting from the
company,” ehlers said. “it grew organically from a group of folks who share their culture and their
heritage with the rest of us. it’s a great time to meet and interact with your co-workers.”




    recognition


                      veteran friendly
                      military friendly®, a division of victory media, named norfolk southern to
                      its 2016 top 100 military friendly employers. the rankings are based on
                      an annual survey that assesses a company’s long-term commitment to
                      recruit, hire, and retain former military personnel; policies for reserve/guard
                      members called to active duty; and the presence of military recruitment and
                      support programs.




                      veteran hires
                      in 2015, norfolk southern hired 509 military veterans – 15 percent of total
                      hires during the year.




                      positive environment
                      norfolk southern was the only railroad named a 2016 top 50 employer
                      by readers of careers & the disabled magazine. readers were asked to
                      name companies they’d most like to work for or that they believe provide
                      a positive working environment for people with disabilities.




                                                                                                           41

                                                             2016 sustainability report
                                                             people / workforce snapshot




                                                                   people

                                            norfolk southern
                                           workforce snapshot
              at the end of 2015, nearly 84 percent of norfolk southern employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements, represented
              by a total of 13 trade unions. these unionized craft employees include locomotive engineers and conductors; locomotive machinists,
              pipefitters, boilermakers, and electricians; freight car repairers; track workers; dispatchers; and communications and signals electronic
              specialists and maintainers.
                                                                    unionized employees
              in 2015, ns reached a new five-year collective bargaining agreement with the brotherhood of locomotive engineers and
              trainmen that covers approximately 4,600 locomotive engineers. the agreement continues to link engineer compensation to
              corporate performance through 2019 and, for the first time, provides individual incentive opportunities based on personal
              performance. the agreement includes changes to improve engineer work scheduling, helping ensure a more stable and
              available workforce while providing employees with more predictable schedules.

                                                             unionized employees
                                                   unionized employees as of 12/31/15

                                 male   23,408      95%              30 to 50   14,182    58%             white                    20,901    85%
                                 female  1,161       5%              over 50     6,315    26%             black/african american    3,083    13%
                                 total  24,569     100%              under 30    4,072    16%             other                       585     2%
                                                                     total      24,569   100%             total                    24,569   100%




                                 male   23,408      95%              30 to 50   14,182    58%             white                    20,901    85%
                                 female  1,161       5%              over 50     6,315    26%             black/african american    3,083    13%
                                 total  24,569     100%              under 30    4,072    16%             other                       585     2%
                                                                     total      24,569   100%             total                    24,569   100%




                                                   nonunion employees as of 12/31/15


non-unionized employees




                   954           male      3,841    80%              30 to 50    2,701    56%             white                     3,701    77%
non-unionized employees
                 3,841           female      954    20%              over 50     1,424    30%             black/african american      889    19%
                 4,795           total     4,795   100%              under 30      670    14%             other                       205     4%
                                                                     total       4,795   100%             total                     4,795   100%




                   954           male      3,841    80%              30 to 50    2,701   56%              white                     3,701   77%
                 3,841           female      954    20%              over 50     1,424   30%              black/african american      889   19%
                 4,795           total     4,795   100%              under 30      670   14%              other                       205    4%           42

                                                      2016 sustainability report
                                                      people / workforce snapshot
senior management



                                                    senior management as of 12/31/15

                            male       25     93%             30 to 50      2      7%            white                      24      89%
senior management
                            female      2      7%             over 50      25     93%            black/african american      2       7%
                            total      27    100%             under 30      0      0%            other                       1       4%
                                                              total        27    100%            total                      27     100%




                            male       25     93%             30 to 50      2      7%            white                      24      89%
                            female      2      7%             over 50      25     93%            black/african american      2       7%
                            total      27    100%             under 30      0      0%            other                       1       4%
                                                              total        27    100%            total                      27     100%




                                                            2015 new hires


       new hires




                   344      male     2,949    90%             30 to 50   1,438    44%            white                    2,496     76%
       new hires 2,949      female     344    10%             over 50      116     4%            black/african american     641     19%
                    3,293   total    3,293   100%             under 30   1,739    53%            other                      156      5%
                                                              total      3,293   100%            total                    3,293    100%




                                     2015 employee turnover by working group
                      344   male     2,949    90%            30 to 50    1,438    44%          white                      2,496     76%
                    2,949   female     344    10%            over 50       116     4%          black/african american       641     19%
                                                  union employees                nonunion employees                        total
                    3,293   total    3,293   100%            under 30    1,739    53%          other                        156      5%
                                                      2,036 total        3,293   100%   575    total                      2,611
                                                                                                                          3,293    100%




                                                                                                                                          43

                                     2016 sustainability report
                                     people / training




                                           people
                     2015 employee-training scorecard

   completed                                   launched new                                   began update of
 expansion                             online learning                               conductor trainee
of training center                         management system                                        program




      advances in employee development
      in 2015, the company advanced efforts to enhance training and career development opportunities for
      new hires and seasoned employees.

      following are the most significant accomplishments.

      norfolk southern training center:
      located in mcdonough, ga., the facility provides centralized technical training for newly hired
      craft employees and advanced training programs for veteran and supervisory employees. in march,
      ns completed a new classroom addition that doubled instructional space to 50,000 square feet
      and equipped the facility with the latest in digital learning technologies, including touchscreens,
      smart boards, tablets, and customized computer simulations.

      the upgrade also enhanced environmental sustainability:
      the center’s new virtual welding lab, for example, enables ns to teach the basics of freight car welding
      virtually instead of consuming stacks of metal burn plates. the computer-simulated welder training
      provides physical, auditory, and visual feedback and actually accelerates training.




                                                                                                                 44

                               2016 sustainability report
                               people / training




                               training center snapshot
                 during 2015, 3,979 operations employees received 461,928 hours
                        of training at the norfolk southern training center.




             2,530                               567                              249
      conductor trainees and               carmen, electricians             signals employees
       locomotive engineers                  and machinists




                39                               483                              111
            dispatchers             maintenance-of-way employees          supervisory employees
                                    in bridge, equipment, and track
                                            welding service




ns also began introducing enhancements to its conductor trainee program. improvements in 2015
included the addition of static “competency stations” that expand hands-on training in such work tasks
as mounting and dismounting equipment, securing rail car hand brakes, and coupling air hoses. the
aim is to make the training program more efficient and reduce the amount of time needed to qualify
conductors. this addresses a business need to improve resource allocation in response to changing
business markets and traffic volumes.

learning management system:
ns launched a new online learning management system that makes it easier than ever for employees
to access training and develop and advance their careers.

the new lms consolidates training programs formerly housed on separate systems into a one-stop shopping
place that allows employees to browse training topics, complete online courses, and track their learning.
in addition, employees receive automatic email notification of required training based on job position,
department, and other criteria recommended for various job roles to help employees be successful.

“the lms is a best-in-class system,” said dan mackay, director employee development. “it gives the
company much more capability to deliver and track training and it gives employees a much more
efficient way to explore and take advantage of the training opportunities we offer.

“implementing the lms as the single corporate standard,” mackay said, “reduces the company’s operational
costs in addition to streamlining the training process for employees.”




                                                                                                            45

                                           2016 sustainability report
                                           people / wellness




                                                 people
                                       2015 wellns scorecard

   20% increase                                29 powertrain                                    ‘healthzone’ stations
in employee participation in                      activity events to                                at more than
    healthmiles program                         support communities                       50 work locations

            supporting employee health and wellness
            norfolk southern’s voluntary wellns program helps employees maintain healthy lifestyles. employees
            and their spouses can join fitness centers, sign up for weight watchers, and design home workouts
            with a virtual trainer – to name a few benefits. a wellns website offers information on topics such as
            getting fit, managing stress, and quitting smoking.

            virgin pulse healthmiles
            more than 8,700 employees – about 30 percent of ns’ workforce – earned points and pocketed up to
            $260 a year by walking, participating in challenges, and tracking their health through this wellns
            program. employees at more than 50 work locations across ns can monitor their weight, blood
            pressure, and body mass index at “healthzone” stations.



                       employees took more than                           497 trips over ns’
                 19 billion steps                                  =      20,000 miles of rail

   nearly 60% averaged more than 7,000 steps daily, meeting the centers                participation increased by more
    for disease control and prevention’s recommendations for activity.                       than 20% over 2014.


            powertrain
            teams of 10 or more employees compete in activity events to benefit nonprofit organizations, with a
            $1,000 donation through wellns. more than 500 employees participated in 29 powertrain events,
            including forming a systemwide national team for the alzheimer’s foundation walk.

            fitness classes
            ns offered on-site classes in pilates, zumba, yoga, and core strengthening at five locations, including
            norfolk headquarters, atlanta, and the company’s training center in mcdonough, ga. new fitns centers
            were constructed in roanoke, norfolk, and atlanta.




                                                                                                                         46

                   2016 sustainability report
                   people / wellness




wellns recognitions in 2015


         the american heart association named ns a platinum fit-friendly
         worksite for going above and beyond to promote and improve workplace
         health culture for employees.




         the atlanta business chronicle ranked ns in the top five of large atlanta
         companies in its 2015 healthiest employers program, citing the railroad’s
         wellns program and partnership with virgin pulse to encourage employees
         to get active and lead healthy lifestyles.




         the american diabetes association designated ns as a corporate
         elite health champion, which recognizes companies that make health and
         wellness a priority for employees in three areas: nutrition and weight
         management, physical activity, and organizational well-being.




                                                                                     47

                                       2016 sustainability report
                                       people / volunteerism




                                             people
             2015 thoroughbred volunteers scorecard


     volunteered 2,500                                              collected enough food and cash for
      community-service hours                                                     11,000 meals


        giving back to communities
        the thoroughbred volunteers, norfolk southern’s formal volunteer program, is all about employees giving
        back and being a part of the communities where they live and work. in 2015, thoroughbred volunteers
        played active roles in norfolk; atlanta; harrisburg, pa.; and greenville, s.c.

        these volunteers recorded 2,500 volunteer hours during chapter-sponsored events. those hours do not
        include the time ns employees invested volunteering on their own for schools, churches, civic clubs,
        and other community organizations across 22 states.

        in altoona, pa., for example, employees on the juniata locomotive shop safety and service committee
        held fundraising drives for the local toys for tots and three area food banks.




“we look at volunteering as part of
social performance. it strengthens
 our ties with local communities.”
     –marjorie heard, chair,
atlanta thoroughbred volunteers




                                                                                                                  48

                              2016 sustainability report
                              people / volunteerism




ways we give back




                                           packed 90 boxes of medical supplies for countries in
                                                   need for medshare medical relief.




     assisted food banks in georgia, virginia, south
      carolina, and pennsylvania, sorting more than
   800 pounds of food for the atlanta food bank and
 collecting more than 1,000 cans of food and $1,600 in
  donations for southeastern virginia food banks. the
  efforts provided 11,000 meals for residents in need.




                                                 cleaned nature trails and planted trees
                                                      for hands on atlanta day.




       offered a workshop on resume writing and
    interviewing and held a business-clothing drive in
  partnership with the urban league of greater atlanta
   and toastmasters to help 15 citizens get job-ready.




                                            removed more than 1,300 pounds of debris from
                                             the chesapeake bay watershed near downtown
                                                     norfolk on clean the bay day.




       assembled back-to-school backpacks for
    children in harrisburg, pa., area schools through
                 volunteers for america.




                                                                                                  49

                                2016 sustainability report
                                people / volunteerism




employee spotlight
stephen young: building a tradition of volunteering
before joining norfolk southern in 1999, stephen young had never been involved in community volunteer
work. now, young, manager intermodal equipment, is a fixture with the norfolk thoroughbred volunteers.
he has twice earned volunteer of the year award for most volunteer hours and has chaired the group for
the past year.

a favorite project of his is the annual hampton roads family
volunteer day, a half-day food-packing event to assist local
charities. young and his daughter, amber, have made it a family
tradition, participating together for the past 15 years – since
amber, now in college, was five years old.

for the 2015 event, norfolk southern employees who work in
the 21-story headquarters building collected canned foods by
floors as part of a competition young helped organize. over
thanksgiving weekend, the father-daughter team joined more
than 1,000 local volunteers to pack nonperishable food items
for 14 nonprofits ranging from homeless shelters to food banks.

initially, young said his motive for getting amber involved was
to help her develop a history of volunteer work for college
applications and job resumes. now, both are hooked on
volunteering for its own sake.

“we caught the spirit,” he said. “we love experiencing the benefit of seeing joy on people’s faces.”

young hopes to make family volunteer day a multigenerational tradition. “the company introduced
me to it, i introduced my daughter to it, and i’d like to introduce my grandchildren one day,” he said.
“we feel good when we volunteer, and we know we’re lucky to be in a position to be able to do it.”


                “i think it’s important for us all to give back and show
                our support for the initiatives our communities have.”
                                 –porshia cross, chair,
                           piedmont thoroughbred volunteers




                                                                                                          50

                                                   2016 sustainability report
                                                   people / community safety




                                                          people
                               2015 community safety scorecard

percentage of hazmat safe deliveries                                                            accident releases:            4 cars
        99.9999935%                                                                           reportable hazmat incidents:
moved: 612,950 hazmat carloads
                                                                                             dropped 23 percent


            community safety
            norfolk southern’s long-term business success depends on safe railroad operations. ns actively
            engages customers, communities, and other key stakeholders in an effort to continually improve
            performance in this vital area of corporate sustainability.


                “the most important obligation we have to the communities in which we
                 operate is to do so safely. ensuring that our employees, customers, and
                       neighbors return home safely every day is good business.”
                                    – ceo jim squires, at ns’ 2016 annual meeting
                                           view squires’ full remarks on the corporate website.



            safely moving goods
            in 2015, norfolk southern continued to demonstrate that rail is a safe and efficient mode to move
            federally regulated hazardous materials to market. ns’ reportable incidents – nonaccident and accident
            releases combined – declined by nearly 23 percent from the previous year. that drop came even as the
            volume of hazmat carloads moved by ns increased by 4 percent.



partnering with chemical customers                                                                          carloads of regulated hazardous
                                                                                                                   materials transported
norfolk southern recognizes chemical customers that safely ship hazardous product on ns’                              (amounts per thousand)
rail network.                                                                                                                                  612.9
                                                                                                                                  589.6
in 2015, ns presented 60 customers with its thoroughbred chemical safety award for shipping
224,660 carloads of hazardous material without incident. these chemicals included crude
                                                                                                                       531.6
petroleum, ethanol, fertilizers, and chemicals used to manufacture common household products
– all vital to the u.s. economy, but potentially dangerous if mishandled or leaked. as a common
carrier, ns, like other u.s. railroads, is required by federal law to offer transport of these materials.
                                                                                                              443.8
ns has presented the safety award since 1999 to customers who ship at least 1,000 tank
carloads of hazardous material during a calendar year without incident. to ensure safe transport,
ns adheres to comprehensive federal rules covering hazmat transport and has adopted many
voluntary safeguards that exceed government regulations. in addition, ns works closely with
                                                                                                                2         3           4           5
chemical customers, including providing on-site training in safe rail-shipping practices.                    201      201        201           201




                                                                                                                                                       51

                                 2016 sustainability report
                                 people / community safety




accidents involving releases
across ns’ 22-state system, four rail cars                         hazmat accident releases
involved in three separate accidents released
hazardous material during the year. no               1.58
injuries or long-term environmental impacts                   1.13                          accident releases by number
occurred. in each case, ns environmental                                0.85                of cars involved
                                                                                  0.65
management employees, in partnership                                                        accident releases ratio per
with regulatory authorities and licensed                                                    100,000 carloads of hazardous
                                                         7         6         5         4    material shipments
contractors, ensured that the spill sites
were secured, cleaned, and remediated.                  12        13        14        15
                                                    20        20        20        20




following is a snapshot of the accident releases:

• in april, a train operating near trenton, s.c., derailed after striking a downed tree on the tracks,
   causing the release of approximately 61,000 pounds of ammonium nitrate from two covered hopper
   cars. ammonium nitrate is an important component of many fertilizer mixtures.

• in july, a tank car leaked about 600 gallons of sodium hydroxide solution after being struck by
   another tank car as it rolled off of the “hump” track at ns’ norris yard in birmingham, ala. the
   incident was linked to a power failure. many industries use sodium hydroxide, including in the
   manufacture of pulp and paper, textiles, drinking water, soaps and detergent, and drain cleaners.

• in november, a container loaded on a flatcar spilled 8,000 pounds of soil containing polychlorinated
   biphenyls after the car derailed on an ns switching spur track in nutley, n.j., an ns train was moving
   the contaminated soil for a customer involved in a remediation cleanup at a former pharmaceutical
   plant.


nonaccident releases
during the year, 54 rail cars being moved                    hazmat nonaccident releases
by ns leaked small amounts of hazardous
                                                   16.22
materials as the result of nonaccident                                 12.40
                                                             11.85
releases. as defined by the industry, a                                          8.80      nonaccident releases by number
                                                                                           of cars involved
nonaccident release is the unintentional
release of hazmat while in transportation —                                                nonaccident releases ratio per
including loading and unloading while in                                                   100,000 carloads of hazardous
                                                    72        63        73        54       material shipments
railroad possession — that is not caused
by a derailment, collision, or other                 12        13        14        15
                                                   20        20        20        20
rail-related accident.

most nonaccident releases involve things such as loose tank car gaskets, valves, and caps. tank cars
used in revenue service to move hazardous materials on norfolk southern are owned by customers,
who are responsible for maintaining them.




                                                                                                                            52

                                                  2016 sustainability report
                                                  people / community safety




                                             a responsible rail carrier
                                             norfolk southern has participated in the american chemistry council’s
                                             responsible care® partnership program since 1996. in 2015, ns earned
                                             another three-year recertification for meeting the program’s strict
                                             membership standards. that includes demonstration of a culture across
                                             all levels of the company to continually identify, reduce, and manage
                                             process-safety risks.
safe tracks, safe towns: in 2015, ns
invested nearly $900 million to maintain     ns’ participation in this voluntary program reflects the company’s commitment
its tracks, with more than 5,500             to work across business sectors to continually improve performance in environ-
employees systemwide dedicated to            mental, health, safety, and security programs involving transport of chemicals.
keeping the rail in top working condition.



              partnering with communities
              a central focus of norfolk southern’s public safety efforts is participation in the voluntary transportation
              community awareness and emergency response, or transcaer program. in 2015, employees in ns’
              safety and environmental department provided training through transcaer for 4,792 emergency
              responders, government officials, members of the media, and others in 18 states to help their communities
              better prepare for potential hazmat incidents.

              the training included classroom seminars, hands-on sessions with rolling
              tank cars, table-top simulations, full-scale drills, and exercises at training
              centers operated by ns and the association of american railroads. in
              addition, ns was instrumental in developing the new askrail™ mobile app,
              which provides real-time rail information to first responders.

              a highlight was operation of dupont training tank cars in a partnership with
              the chemical company. the tank cars stopped in 25 cities for three days
              each to train emergency responders.



                                                               ns grants equip responders
                                                               in 2015, the norfolk southern foundation, which oversees ns’ charitable giving,
                                                               provided grants totaling $190,750 to help fire, police, and emergency responders
                                                               purchase safety equipment for their departments. ranging from $1,000 to
                                                               $10,000, the grants were awarded to first responders in all 10 of the
                                                               railroad’s operating divisions.




                   recognition


                                       transcaer achievement award
                                       in 2015, norfolk southern earned a national transcaer achievement award
                                       for the 16th time and 14th consecutive year. the award recognizes exceptional
                                       achievement in support of efforts to help communities prepare for and safely
                                       respond to potential incidents involving transport of hazardous materials.




                                                                                                                                                  53

                                2016 sustainability report
                                people / community safety




               ns carloads of ethanol and crude oil by rail
                                            (amounts per thousand)

                                                                            102.0          95.6
                                                                                    82.9
                                   70.7             72.0 75.3        71.1
                     ethanol

                     crude
                                            22.4

                                          12             13                 14             15
                                       20              20               20             20




crude-by-rail training continues in 2015
in 2015, norfolk southern sponsored training for 80 emergency responders at a three-day crude-by-rail
safety course at the association of american railroads’ security and emergency response training center
in pueblo, colo. in addition, ns sponsored training for 10 emergency responders attending the railroad’s
course on tank car emergency response.

including 2014, ns has invested around $800,000 in training nearly 220 first responders to safely
respond to potential incidents involving crude oil transport. ns sponsored emergency responders
from communities where crude oil trains operate, including responders from indiana, ohio, pennsylvania,
illinois, new jersey, maryland, and delaware.


ns safety train reflects commitment to communities
in 2015, norfolk southern launched its operation awareness & response program to cultivate and
strengthen relationships with local first responders – and to educate the public about the economic
benefits of moving hazardous materials by rail. the program provides classroom, online, and field training
on hazardous materials transport and useful information about rail operations.

in april 2016, ns rolled out the program’s centerpiece: a hazmat safety train. the company also
launched a new website, http://www.joinnsoar.com/.

the safety train includes a locomotive painted in honor of emergency responders with insignia
recognizing police, fire, and emergency services; two boxcars converted into classrooms; and four
styles of tank cars.




                                                                                                             54

                                             2016 sustainability report
                                             people / community safety




             new 9-1-1 locomotive honors first responders
             in june 2015, norfolk southern commissioned the ns 9-1-1 locomotive in the nation’s capital to
             honor emergency first responders. the unit features the maltese cross of fire services, the emergency
             medical services’ “star of life,” and the police shield. it also features the logo for transcaer.


             reaching people where they live
             “brainy” and “whistle stop” trips promote community rail safety
             norfolk southern trains run through thousands of communities in the eastern u.s., delivering goods
             that support local economies and residents. to promote safe rail operations, ns invests in community
             awareness programs that target two troublesome areas: trespassing on railroad tracks and unsafe
             motorist behavior at highway-rail grade crossings.

                                          ns’ two largest outreach efforts in 2015 were its “whistle stop” train
                                          trips and the “train your brain” campaign, featuring brainy, the railroad’s
                                          pink safety ambassador. the railroad’s safety and environmental department
                                          partnered with operation lifesaver, a national nonprofit safety organization,
                                          on the whistle stop tours.

                                          whistle stop: ns operated two of these three-day train trips, with the
a survivor tells his story
                                          theme, “see tracks? think train!” one stopped in seven cities in south
on norfolk southern’s 2015 whistle        carolina and north carolina; the other stopped in six ohio cities. the
stop tours, mark kalina jr. shared his    trains gave rides to key stakeholders, including state lawmakers; police,
story about the night he took a short-    fire, and emergency medical responders; civic leaders; and city and county
cut through another railroad’s yard in    council members. ns and operation lifesaver representatives used the
ohio. a train severed his legs after he   outings as an opportunity to build relationships and discuss safety
tripped and fell.                         messages the guest passengers could take into their communities.


             train your brain: this campaign targeted 11 communities in south-central georgia along a corridor from
             macon to valdosta. in 2014, ns trains were involved in 45 collisions at grade crossings in georgia that
             resulted in six deaths and 20 injuries.

             outreach included distributing branded homework folders and rail safety activity sheets to 71 elementary
             schools and handing out branded driver’s education kits to 18 high schools. brainy appeared at high school
             football games, festivals, and other community events. ns added a page to its www.brainysworld.com
             website that allows users to make a “railroad smart pledge” commitment to loved ones.

             to complement the new “i am coming home” safety message for employees, ns launched a “cross
             carefully, get home safely” campaign featuring roadside billboards, gasoline pump “toppers,” and ads in
             movie theater lobbies, among other advertising.




                                                                                                                          55

                                           2016 sustainability report
                                           people / community safety




       see tracks? think trains! highway-rail incidents
       in 2015, highway-rail grade crossing incidents involving norfolk southern trains declined by 12 percent.
       these incidents involve motorists and passing trains, most often occurring when motorists ignore flashing
       warning lights at railroad crossings or drive around crossing gates. two-thirds of the incidents occurred
       in six of ns’ 22 operating states: indiana (with the most, at 54), georgia, ohio, alabama, pennsylvania,
       and north carolina.

                                                            2011          2012             2013   2014   2015
        # of highway-rail incidents                          365            336            344    373      328
        # of train miles (millions)                            83            87             95     96     96.4
        incidents per million train miles                     4.4           3.9             3.6    3.9     3.4

       walking on tracks is trespassing: trespasser incidents
       while trespasser injuries on norfolk southern property declined 9 percent overall in 2015, the number
       of fatalities involving trespassers increased 21 percent. much of ns’ public outreach around rail safety
       is to make people aware that the company’s train tracks are private property and that walking on them
       is dangerous and illegal.

                                                            2011          2012             2013   2014   2015
        total trespasser injuries                            123            145             180    148     134
        total trespasser fatalities                            62            82              99     84     102




actively engaging communities
employees across norfolk southern’s system play a role in educating the public about
safety around trains and railroad tracks. for example, in alabama, members of a local
safety and service committee sponsored a family day cookout for the collinsville
community in a park near ns tracks. the committee’s chairman, who volunteers for
operation lifesaver, taught a class of elementary school students about railroad safety.

“we pass through these communities every day, and you want to make it the best
you possibly can for them,” said jeremy pate, a locomotive engineer based in
birmingham. “you don’t want to take anything away from them. you want to bring
something to the table if you can.”




                                                                                                                   56

planet

                                2016 sustainability report
                                planet / overview




                                  planet




stewardship of resources is central to norfolk southern’s business strategy. ns’ commitment to
sustainable operating practices reduces costs and environmental impacts. the company’s efforts to
improve fuel and energy efficiency, for example, are linked to lowering locomotive diesel and electricity
costs and reducing carbon emissions.

with tracks that connect businesses, communities, and people across 22 states, norfolk southern has
strong ties to the land. ns is committed to reducing and mitigating its impacts on the planet in an approach
that connects conservation and capitalism, from support of reforestation in the mississippi delta to the
preservation of rare longleaf pine habitat and wetlands in the southeastern u.s.




environmental impact of ns’ greentrees partnership
                                           over 15 years




 10,000                                 6,040,000                                     1,120,000
 acres of forest                             trees planted                       metric tons of co₂ captured




                        40+                             610,909,091
               species habitats restored                     liters of water stored




                                                                                                               58

                                         2016 sustainability report
                                         planet / eco locomotives




                                            planet
                           2015 eco locomotives scorecard

        rolled out                                     reduced                                        formed
            25                             diesel emissions                             new partnerships
low-emission eco locomotives                 in atlanta and chicago                             to expand use of
                                                                                                eco locomotives



           partnerships to reduce diesel emissions
           norfolk southern considers it a corporate responsibility to mitigate the environmental impacts of
           its rail operations. development of a new class of low-emission locomotives and innovative idle-
           reduction technology demonstrates the railroad’s continuing commitment to industry leadership in
           sustainability best practices and environmental partnerships.

           three things ns did in 2015 to reduce rail yard emissions
           1.   introduced the eco locomotive, a locomotive rebuild program that recycles older locomotives
                and outfits them with new low-emission engines.
           2.   rolled out the “sleeper,” an engine-heater system that eliminates unnecessary locomotive idling
                in winter months.
           3.   expanded work on a rebuild program to create locomotive “slugs” – units with traction motors
                but no engines. the slugs are paired with diesel-powered locomotives to add emissions-free
                pulling power and reduce fuel burn.




                                                                                                                   59

                                 2016 sustainability report
                                 planet / eco locomotives




ns’ recycled eco locomotives support community air quality
norfolk southern is helping communities enhance air quality with eco locomotives, a new class of
low-emission yard locomotives.

in 2015 public-private partnerships, ns introduced the eco units at its inman yard in atlanta and at its
intermodal facilities in chicago. ns delivered 10 of the locomotives to atlanta and 15 to chicago.

branded “eco” for their operating efficiencies in reducing emissions and fuel use, the locomotives were
funded in part by federal congestion mitigation and air quality improvement program grants. these
grants are available to projects that help states and localities reduce transportation-related emissions,
improve air quality, and comply with federal clean air act attainment standards.




                                         cleaner-burning engines
                                         the 3,000-horsepower eco engines reduce emissions regulated by the u.s.
                                         environmental protection agency, including nitrogen oxides, or nox, a
                                         contributor to ozone and linked to climate change, particulate matter,
                                         hydrocarbons, and smoke.

                                         in chicago, the partnership enables ns to replace its entire fleet of older
                                         switcher locomotives with cleaner-burning eco units at its five major rail yards.
                                         ns received more than $19 million through the cmaq grant program as part
                                         of the $30 million public-private partnership in chicago.




             the emissions that 10 eco locomotives
               will reduce annually in atlanta:


                            6.6                                         150
                           tons                                          tons

                particulate matter                             nitrogen oxides


             the emissions that 15 eco locomotives
               will reduce annually in chicago:


                          7.58                                          196
                           tons                                          tons

                particulate matter                             nitrogen oxides




                                                                                                                             60

                                               2016 sustainability report
                                               planet / eco locomotives




             reducing life cycle emissions
             the eco locomotives were developed through ns’ unique rebuild program that recycles older locomo-
             tive bodies and upgrades engines with newer technologies that maximize fuel economy and emissions
             reduction. for the eco units, ns used the body frames of a locomotive model built in the 1980s and
             equipped them with new low-emission engines.

             recycling the older locomotives, rather than buying newly manufactured steel components, adds to
             the program’s benefits by reducing production-related carbon emissions and lowering costs.

                                         to enhance emissions reduction, each eco unit can replace two older,
                                         less-efficient locomotives when paired with a “slug” – an industry term
                                         for a locomotive outfitted with traction motors for pulling power but no
                                         engine. ns built slugs for the atlanta and chicago partnerships.

                                         more eco partnerships for 2016
                                         norfolk southern has entered into public-private partnerships that will
learn more:                              bring eco locomotives and emissions-free slugs to rail yards in pittsburgh,
visit ns’ corporate website for more     pa., and macon, ga. in 2016, ns is building two eco locomotives and two
information about the low-emission eco   slugs for delivery to pittsburgh and five eco units and two slugs for use
locomotives in atlanta and chicago.      in macon.


             norfolk southern’s sleeper: fuel savings and cleaner air
             in 2015, norfolk southern began deploying the sleeper, a customized plug-in engine heater system
             that reduces unnecessary locomotive idling and diesel emissions in cold weather. it was one of the
             company’s key sustainability advancements.

             with the sleeper, ns achieves the “triple bottom line” of sustainability:

             people: it enhances air quality in neighborhoods around rail yards.
             planet: it reduces diesel emissions linked to climate change.
             profit: it helps ns’ bottom line by reducing fuel use and operating costs.

             public benefits are a driver
             during 2015 and early 2016, norfolk southern joined with state and federal
             agencies to share the costs of installing sleeper heaters in locomotives and
             wayside power stations at rail yards in atlanta; chicago; kansas city mo.; and
             six cities in ohio. the primary purpose of these public-private partnerships is
             to help communities comply with their obligations and commitments under
             the federal clean air act.
                                                                                                    the sleeper in action
             “this is a relatively inexpensive way for us and our public partners to accom-         learn more about the sleeper in
             plish a host of good public policy and private goals that any industry would           this video at norfolk southern’s
             want to achieve,” said darrell wilson, assistant vice president government             inman yard.
             relations.

             “our goal is to get this done on the northern part of the railroad, where winters can get really cold, but
             that’s not the stopping place,” said don graab, vice president mechanical.

             norfolk southern is the first large u.s. freight railroad to undertake a systemwide program using plug-in
             technology to reduce locomotive idling. working with supply-chain partners, ns’ mechanical department
             customized existing technologies to design a robust system for rail yards where locomotives shove and
             pull freight cars 24/7. in addition to conserving fuel, reducing emissions benefits the public. the availability
             of federal funds earmarked to reduce transportation-related emissions supported the effort.

             “this was another step in our process of looking for newer and better ways to reduce fuel consumption,”
             said mark duve, system manager locomotive reliability, who headed the project.




                                                                                                                                       61

                               2016 sustainability report
                               planet / eco locomotives




stakeholder collaboration and innovation
norfolk southern field-tested the sleeper system in 2013 at one of its chicago yards. collaboration
with suppliers produced an innovative design easy for train crews to use. for example, the power
station features a retractable “power crane” equipped with a night light and other safety features. the
crane went through four generations of design to perfect it.

“we’ve standardized that design across our system. ns essentially created a market for the power
crane,” said bruce backus, electrical engineer locomotive design.

during the chicago field trials, the brotherhood of locomotive engineers and trainmen and the united
transportation union – unions representing train and engine crews at ns – contributed to improve-
ments. they suggested heating the locomotive cab as well as the engine, leading to addition of a
heating element that keeps the cab comfortable.




                                                 no antifreeze? no problem.
                                                 diesel locomotive engines do not use antifreeze. to prevent freezing,
                                                 locomotive engines traditionally are kept idling in winter months
                                                 between operating shifts. with the sleeper, locomotives can be
                                                 shut off, plugged-in, and put to “sleep” regardless of the cold.

                                                 for interested rail fans, sleeper is an ns acronym for: stationary
                                                 locomotive emissions elimination plug-in electric receptacle system.




                                                                                                                         62

                 2016 sustainability report
                 planet / eco locomotives




public partners praise ns idle-reduction technology


           a ‘cool project’ for kansas city air quality
           norfolk southern’s sleeper technology appealed to kansas city, mo., officials because the
           investment supports long-term commitments to cleaner air and to expanding freight rail
           business at a busy rail hub.

           “this was a really cool project,” said doug norsby, air quality planner at mid-america regional
           council in kansas city. “we liked that we could be a showcase for this technology, and, because
           we knew the dedicated infrastructure was here, we had confidence that emissions reductions
           would continue to occur in our area.”

           the regional council teamed with the missouri department of natural resources to obtain
           cost-sharing funds through the diesel emissions reduction act, a grant program administered
           by the epa.

           “when you have something that is really useful, really valuable in terms of emissions reduction
           and control,” norsby said, “using some public money to encourage business to take a risk and try
           some of these technologies can be really important.”




           chicago partnership a first for epa
           in chicago, norfolk southern and other railroads are partners with the environmental protection
           agency in the midwest clean diesel initiative. this voluntary program promotes the use of tech-
           nology and operational changes to reduce emissions from diesel engines and improve air quality
           in the midwest.

           through this connection, epa identified funding to help install the sleeper technology at ns’
           chicago rail yards. it is the first time epa has partnered with a railroad in chicago to reduce
           locomotive idling using plug-in heater technology.

           “i think it’s an innovative and cost-effective project that will be very beneficial,” said frank
           acevedo, epa mobile source program manager for region 5. “it has a lot of potential to
           significantly reduce emissions that could have a direct impact on residential areas and public
           health here in chicago.”

           epa studies have shown that reducing locomotive idling is the most effective way to lower rail
           yard emissions, said carolyn persoon, an epa environmental engineer. “norfolk southern,” she
           said, “is addressing the biggest source of emissions in the yards and is doing something we know
           is effective in reducing emissions.”




                                                                                                              63

                 2016 sustainability report
                 planet / eco locomotives




public partners praise ns idle-reduction technology


           good for georgia neighborhoods
           in georgia, norfolk southern installed the sleeper technology at four rail yards, including
           atlanta, through a partnership with the georgia department of natural resources, environmen-
           tal protection division.

           “industrial sites, including rail yards, can generate ‘hot spots’ of emissions,” said rich mcdonald,
           environmental engineer with epd. "the sleeper system should reduce those localized emissions
           and improve air quality in nearby neighborhoods.

           “eliminating those emissions is a good thing to improve health in our community. when all you’re
           trying to do is warm up engine water so it doesn’t freeze, this plug-in arrangement is a much more
           efficient and cleaner way to do it.”




           growing business and reducing emissions in ohio
           in ohio, norfolk southern initially is installing 21 plug-in heater stations to operate the sleeper
           system in a half-dozen rail yards around the state, including canton and youngstown. engine
           heaters will go on 26 yard and local locomotives. ns’ public partner, the ohio rail development
           commission, provided matching dollars through the federal diesel emissions reduction act
           program.

           “ohio partnered with ns to lower diesel emissions in some of the state’s most urbanized
           and industrial neighborhoods," said matt dietrich, executive director of the rail development
           commission. “by contributing public funds, the state can leverage private dollars for an initiative
           that will benefit public health and promote jobs and economic growth.

           “we recognize that railroads produce emissions, but railroads are also critical to the economy,”
           dietrich said. “basically, this program results in cleaner air for everybody.”




                                                                                                                  64

                                     2016 sustainability report
                                     planet / fuel efficiency




                                        planet
                        2015 fuel efficiency scorecard

            410 miles                                                           1.28 gallons
how far ns moved a ton of freight                                   amount of diesel fuel consumed
    on one gallon of diesel                                     per 1,000 gross ton miles of train moves




     setting a goal on fuel efficiency
     norfolk southern in 2015 set a five-year goal to improve locomotive fuel efficiency as part of the company’s
     strategic plan to reduce operating costs and improve the company’s stewardship of resources.

     the goal is to reduce fuel consumption by $80 million per year by 2020. to achieve it, ns aims to improve
     overall locomotive fuel economy by nearly 9 percent from the 2015 baseline. ns has fuel-efficiency
     initiatives underway or in development to reach the goal. they range from train-handling technologies to
     operating strategies, such as running longer trains, which requires fewer locomotives and reduces fuel use.

     ns’ efforts to improve fuel efficiency will contribute to its goal to reduce carbon emissions. ns’ current
     goal, expected to be updated in 2017, is to reduce ghg emissions by 10 percent per revenue ton-mile
     based on 2009 emission levels.

     “we’ve been on a path of steady and consistent improvement in fuel efficiency going back several years,”
     said neville wilson, director operations and locomotive control, who leads ns’ fuel team. “we have
     initiatives in place that we believe can help us accelerate that progress.”


                                                       2020 goals


      $80 million                        1.17 gallons                                    8.6%
        fuel consumption savings            diesel burn per 1,000 gross        improvement in fuel economy
          based on 2015 prices           ton-miles vs. 1.28 gallons in 2015        over 2015 baseline




                                                                                                                    65

                                 2016 sustainability report
                                 planet / fuel efficiency




following are two of the fuel team’s most significant efficiency initiatives:

follow the leader
norfolk southern’s main fuel-efficiency program is leader, a train-handling technology that monitors
a train’s operating conditions and calculates the speed and dynamic braking required for maximum
fuel efficiency. train crews use an onboard touch-screen computer to operate the gps-based
system. ns has achieved average fuel savings of 5 to 7 percent on trains led by a leader-
equipped locomotive.

by the end of 2015, ns had equipped more than 1,900 of its 2,600 road locomotives – nearly
three-fourths of the road fleet – with leader software and hardware. in 2015, the number of trains
operating with leader more than doubled – to 50 percent of all road trains, from 22 percent at the
end of 2014. during the year, ns also completed employee training on use of leader, involving
approximately 4,400 locomotive engineers and 3,900 conductors.

in 2016, ns for the first time will begin using trip optimizer train-handling technology developed by
industry partner ge transportation. trip optimizer, ge’s version of leader, will be installed on 50 new
ge evolution locomotives ns plans to purchase. ns also expects to install trip optimizer on older ge
locomotive models that receive engine upgrades through ns’ locomotive rebuild program.

ns’ plan to buy new locomotives and its rebuild program – in particular, an initiative to convert dc
traction-motor locomotives to more efficient ac locomotives – support ns’ goal to lower the average
age of its locomotive fleet. reducing the fleet’s age increases reliability and contributes to reduced fuel
consumption over time because fewer locomotives are out of service for repairs and maintenance.
that means ns can operate a smaller locomotive fleet to meet business demands.




                                                           more information
                                                           a timeline of milestones and details about leader,
                                                           ns’ flagship fuel-efficiency initiative, can be found in
                                                           ns’ 2015 sustainability report.




                                                                                                                      66

                                2016 sustainability report
                                planet / fuel efficiency




matching horsepower with tonnage
beyond leader, the most significant fuel conservation initiative is called horsepower per ton, or hpt.
developed during 2015 and rolled out in early 2016, hpt provides train crews with specific guidelines
on maximum locomotive horsepower to use based on train type, total tonnage, and direction.

typically, several locomotives are assigned to a train. however, rarely are they all needed for the entire
trip, because horsepower demands vary based on terrain and other operating conditions. hpt aims to
reduce the number of locomotives used during any segment of the trip.

using fewer units is more efficient operationally and saves fuel. development is underway to incorpo-
rate hpt as an automatic feature of leader.

“we’re leveraging on-board technology gained by installing leader, including gps and track map
information, to enable us to remotely idle leader-equipped locomotives in real time if not needed for
pulling power,” wilson said. “this will make hpt even more dynamic as a fuel-efficiency tool.”



    ns fuel economy by the numbers


   norfolk southern measures fuel efficiency in two ways: by revenue ton-miles and by gross ton-miles.

   revenue ton-miles: fuel economy tied to revenue ton-miles, or rtm, is based on the
   tonnage of customers’ freight moved in revenue service. in 2015, ns trains moved 199.7 billion
   revenue ton-miles of freight while consuming more than 486 million gallons of locomotive diesel
   fuel. on average, ns moved a ton of freight 410 miles per gallon of diesel burned. that com-
   pares with 415 miles per gallon in 2014, a decline of 1 percent. the decline is attributable largely
   to shifts in business mix, weather, and network traffic issues that resulted in congestion and
   increased train idling.

   gross ton-miles: the use of gross ton-miles, or gtm, provides the broadest look at fuel
   economy, taking into account fuel consumed by nonrevenue work trains, yard switching activity,
   and empty freight cars traveling on revenue trains. in 2015, ns trains moved 384.4 billion gtm.
   on average, ns consumed 1.28 gallons of diesel fuel per 1,000 gtm, achieving the same fuel
   economy as in 2014. ns is basing its 2020 fuel-efficiency goal on gross ton-miles. the 2020
   target is 1.17 gallons per 1,000 gtm.

   since 2011, the company has improved fuel efficiency by 3 percent per 1,000 gtm.




                                                                                                             67

                                2016 sustainability report
                                planet / fuel efficiency




alternatives to reduce fuel use
norfolk southern is an industry leader in exploring alternative energy sources to reduce locomotive
emissions. during 2015, ns made gains in battery technology and compressed natural gas.

a strategic shift on battery technology
since the 2009 rollout of ns 999, a prototype battery switcher
locomotive, norfolk southern has continued research into battery
technology as an alternative energy source for locomotives. in
2015, the company made a strategic shift: instead of focusing
on tractive power in a full hybrid, ns now is exploring use of
batteries for just the opposite – to allow locomotives to be shut
down, thus reducing fuel burn and emissions from idling engines.

ns hopes to develop a “micro-hybrid” solution. the idea is to
install a small battery pack on locomotives to operate critical
electronic control systems, such as onboard train-handling
equipment, while the locomotive is shut down. similar to
automobiles, locomotive electronics and other operating systems are run by the same battery pack that
starts the engine, which requires a surge in power. as a result, locomotives often remain idling or go
through an automated stop-start process when not moving freight to avoid draining the batteries while
keeping those electronics running.

economic and environmental benefits: equipping the locomotive fleet with a micro-hybrid battery pack
to reduce engine idling is much more cost-effective than building a fleet of hybrid-powered locomotives.

“we’re trying to use battery technology in a way that gives us the most fuel and emissions savings
for the investment,” said sean woody, manager technology development and leader of the r&d
effort. “locomotives produce more emissions and are the least fuel efficient when they’re idling, so
reducing idling time provides the most opportunity for improvement. we realize there’s tremendous
payoff from doing that.”

lessons learned: ns is applying lessons learned from six years of work developing the ns 999. the
company’s micro-hybrid research includes looking at the best type of batteries to use, how much
battery power is required, and forecasting system costs. currently, battery technology remains too
expensive and is not advanced enough to provide reliable locomotive tractive power – factors that
played into ns’ strategic shift. an upgraded second-generation version of ns 999, tested in yard
service during early 2015, was equipped with nearly 900 lead-carbon batteries, and maintenance
was an ongoing issue.

“we still see the potential,” woody said, “but the technology and the economics are just not there yet.”




                                                                                                           68

                                2016 sustainability report
                                planet / fuel efficiency




ns builds and tests a cng locomotive
norfolk southern continues to advance its knowledge of cng
technology as an alternative to diesel fuel to power locomotives.

in 2015, employees at ns’ juniata locomotive shop successfully
modified a gp38-2 switcher locomotive engine to run entirely
on compressed natural gas. the unit, which has not been put
into service, is paired with a locomotive slug housing cng
cylinders that supply the equivalent of 1,000 gallons of diesel.

“it’s built and it’s functional,” said don faulkner, general
superintendent locomotive shops, who oversees ns’
locomotive rebuild programs at juniata locomotive shop,
where work on the cng prototype occurred.

ns is interested in the potential of cng to reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides, particulate matter, and
hydrocarbons compared with diesel-powered locomotives. ns in 2015 put the prototype through
third-party emissions testing and is exploring ways to enhance its performance. using cng locomotives
in revenue service would require federal approval, a topic of ongoing discussion among the industry and
regulatory authorities.




                                                                                                           69

                                             2016 sustainability report
                                             planet / carbon mitigation




                                               planet
                           2015 carbon mitigation scorecard

completed partnership to reforest                     expanded protection of                                    created a
         10,000 acres                                 s.c. woodlands                                   wetlands
      in the mississippi delta
                                                                                                    mitigation bank

            trees and trains add up to sustainable business
            in 2015, norfolk southern completed a five-year community partnership to reforest 10,000 acres in the
            mississippi delta, the flagship project of the company’s trees and trains initiative to mitigate carbon
            emissions the natural way. ns partnered with greentrees, the nation’s leading reforestation program,
            committing $5.6 million to plant more than 6 million trees.




            income for landowners: the trees and trains project is generating income for about 50 landowners who
            agreed to plant cottonwoods and native hardwoods on former woodlands that were converted years
            ago to farm fields but became marginally productive and prone to flooding. over 15 years, the trees
            planted through trees and trains will generate more than 1.1 million metric tons of carbon credits
            that ns agreed to purchase through the partnership. ns can hold the credits to offset its business-
            related carbon emissions or sell them to recoup its investment. participating landowners receive
            payments through ns’ initial investment in the project.

            corporate opportunity: the project, which supports a region long served by ns, is an innovative way to
            invest in conservation, resulting in positive environmental, economic, and social impacts for the railroad
            and its stakeholders.

            “the fact that norfolk southern said, ‘we’re in,’ created a floor of certainty for landowners to make that
            land conversion,” said chandler van voorhis, greentrees co-founder and managing partner. “it told them,
            ‘this is a big corporation saying, ‘you grow it, i’ll buy it.’ having ns as a buyer and an investor brought a
            comfort level that has enabled us to scale up and bring in other landowners outside of ns’ particular
            territory. that’s a part of the story that norfolk southern owns.

            “more corporations are following norfolk southern’s lead and investing in forestry initiatives as
            part of their sustainability efforts to offset carbon emissions and other environmental impacts,”
            van voorhis said.

            “it’s not just carbon,” he said. “it’s biodiversity, it’s water, it’s impact in a community where the
            investment has been made.”




                                                                                                                            70

                                 2016 sustainability report
                                 planet / carbon mitigation




ns turns land stewardship into profitable opportunity
norfolk southern’s commitment to sustainable business practices extends to operations that are not
directly tied to moving freight. as a large landowner in coastal south carolina, ns has adopted an
approach that generates environmental and economic benefits.

ns in 2015 launched a project to restore 290 acres of historic wetlands at its brosnan forest conference
facility. the project, to be completed in 2016, will create valuable wildlife habitat and restore natural
water hydrology while supporting economic development in the region. ns donated a conservation
easement that will permanently protect the restored wetlands acreage.

this “wetlands mitigation bank” will generate 790 wetlands credits that ns, through a broker, can sell
to offset wetlands impacted by development elsewhere in the region. the credits could be used, for
example, to support development of rail-served industrial projects that would create new business for
ns. with wetlands credits in coastal south carolina currently priced from $6,000 to $8,000 each, ns
potentially could earn more than $6 million selling them.

forest has railroad roots
located about 35 miles northwest of charleston, s.c., brosnan forest has been in railroad ownership
since the 1830s, once serving as a source for track crossties and fuel for steam locomotives. in the
1920s, southern railway, an ns predecessor railroad, used the property as a laboratory for university
forestry students and to demonstrate the economic advantages of planting property in woodland.
these days, ns operates a small conference center at the forest as a place to build business relation-
ships with customers and to offer management employees an off-site location for strategic planning
and brainstorming sessions.



employee spotlight:
protect the planet, earn a profit
josh raglin, general manager facilities, has helped make norfolk southern
a u.s. corporate leader in conservation capitalism, a business approach
that turns conservation into opportunities for profit.

a biologist by training, raglin manages ns’ brosnan forest business
center and 14,405-acre woodlands preserve. in 2008, raglin helped
ns pioneer a conservation easement that permanently protects
12,488 acres of the property from development, including more than
6,000 acres of rare longleaf pine forest. since then, raglin has
spearheaded several initiatives showcasing conservation capitalism,
including creation of a wetlands mitigation bank, his latest project. through raglin’s efforts, ns has:

• qualified the forest for enrollment in both the sustainable forestry initiative® and the forest stewardship
   council by adopting best management forestry practices. while preserving plant and wildlife habitat,
   these certified practices increase the value of timber that ns allows to be periodically harvested as
   part of the property’s management.

• earned around 300,000 carbon offset credits for the forest, working with finite carbon to verify and
   register the credits with the air resources board in california. through the arb, ns sells the credits
   to companies desiring to offset their emissions. over the past year, a carbon credit in the california
   market has traded in the $9 to $10 range.

• expanded the number of endangered red-cockaded woodpeckers nesting at the forest, creating the
   world’s largest known colony on privately owned land under single ownership. through a “safe harbor”
   agreement with wildlife and natural resource agencies, ns’ efforts to expand the birds’ population
   has earned 21 mitigation credits that ns can sell to developers wishing to build on property housing
   isolated pairs of the woodpeckers.




                                                                                                                 71

                                           2016 sustainability report
                                           planet / ghg emissions




                                             planet
                              2015 ghg emissions scorecard

           1.9 %                                            6.1%                                             80%
overall drop in co₂ emissions                drop in electricity-based                     of emissions-reduction goal
                                                     emissions




          a look at 2015 ghg emissions




          overall ghg decline
          norfolk southern’s total greenhouse gas emissions – scope 1 direct emissions and scope 2 indirect
          emissions – declined by nearly 2 percent in 2015.

          the decrease reflects a 2.4 percent drop in business volume as measured by revenue ton-miles of freight
          moved by ns’ diesel-burning locomotive fleet, the main source of ns’ direct ghg emissions. in addition,
          ns reduced by 6.1 percent its scope 2 emissions related to electricity use at railroad offices and facilities.
          this drop is attributed mainly to a milder winter, systemwide energy efficiency improvements, and
          the midyear closure of the company’s roanoke corporate office, part of an initiative to streamline
          business operations.

          update on ghg goal
          in 2010, ns set a goal to reduce carbon emissions by 10 percent per revenue ton-mile. as measured
          against 2009 baseline emissions, the railroad in 2015 achieved a cumulative emissions reduction of
          8 percent per rtm – down from 8.5 percent in 2014. contributing to the slip were network congestion
          in the first half of the year and a changing business mix that included more time-sensitive freight, resulting
          in higher horsepower moves that increased locomotive fuel burn and emissions.

          locomotives in 2015 accounted for 90 percent of ns’ total ghg emissions, or nearly 5 million metric
          tons. ns’ goal is to reduce ghg emissions by 3 grams of co₂ per rtm over the 2009 baseline. the
          company reduced cumulative emissions by 2.41 grams per rtm in 2015, compared with 2.56 grams
          in 2014. initiatives designed to meet a fuel-efficiency goal set in 2015 will advance ns’ efforts to
          reduce its ghg emissions.




                                                                                                                           72

                                2016 sustainability report
                                planet / ghg emissions




progress on energy emissions:
during the year, ns achieved a 7 percent reduction in non-locomotive scope 1 emissions related to
the use of fuels other than diesel, such as natural gas, propane, and coal. nearly half of that reduction
is associated with the company’s reduced use of coal for power, including the elimination of coal-fired
boilers in an energy-conversion project at juniata locomotive shop.


customer recognizes ns’ sustainable rail solution
customer eastman chemical company presented norfolk southern with supplier sustainability and
innovation awards in 2015 for a rail-based transportation solution that helped eastman reduce its
supply-chain carbon emissions and shipping costs.

ns’ intermodal business group worked with eastman’s global logistics group in 2014 to offer rail
transport of eastman specialty plastics and wood-based products from an intermodal port facility in
greer, s.c., to the port of charleston. prior to the rail option, eastman moved these containerized
products by truck from its kingsport, tenn., plant to charleston for export. the ns solution removed
212 miles of truck transport.

                                         “the norfolk southern intermodal group made sure this was
                                         a value proposition that made sense for eastman,” said debbie
                                         davis waltermire, eastman’s director of global logistics procure-
                                         ment. “eastman has goals around sustainable growth and improved
                                         carbon footprint, and we felt that this gives us supply-chain
                                         efficiencies that allow for sustainable growth.”

                                         ns partnered with the south carolina ports authority to provide
                                         rail service at the upland s.c. inland port facility, which opened
                                         in fall 2013. ns rail service between greer and charleston is
                                         helping to reduce supply-chain emissions of other customers,
                                         including bmw, adidas, michelin, and john deere.




                                                      reducing shippers’ carbon footprint
                                                      shippers can reduce their supply-chain carbon emissions
                                                      by moving products by rail instead of highway. norfolk
                                                      southern’s “green machine,” a carbon footprint analyzer
                                                      found on ns’ website, offers shippers a quick estimate of
                                                      carbon savings. on average, trains are four times more fuel-
                                                      efficient and generate 75 percent fewer emissions than trucks.




                                                                                                                       73

                                              2016 sustainability report
                                              planet / ghg emissions


                                                     ns business emissions


 total scope 1 and scope 2 emissions of                                   emissions per revenue ton-mile
     carbon dioxide equivalents                                                           (grams)
                     (million metric tons)



 5.40                                        5.63    5.52            28.19    27.93       27.63        27.44      27.59
              5.18          5.34
11




             12




                           13




                                             14




                                                     15




                                                                     11




                                                                               12




                                                                                          13




                                                                                                        14




                                                                                                                  15
20




             20




                         20




                                        20




                                                     20




                                                                    20




                                                                             20




                                                                                          20




                                                                                                       20




                                                                                                                 20
     total revenue ton-miles of freight                                  total railway operating revenues
                           (billions)                                                 (billions usd)




                           193.5             205.0   199.7          $11.2     $11.0       $11.0        $11.6
191.7        185.6                                                                                               $10.5
                                                                     11




                                                                              12




                                                                                          13




                                                                                                       14




                                                                                                                  15
11




             12




                           13




                                             14




                                                     15




                                                                   20




                                                                             20




                                                                                      20




                                                                                                       20




                                                                                                                 20
20




             20




                         20




                                        20




                                                     20




     ns 2015 emissions
     (in metric tons co₂ equivalents)

                                                                              scope 1                       scope 2
     co₂                                                                     5,219,275                      249,253
     ch₄                                                                       10,052                           107
     n₂o                                                                       38,884                          1,166
     hfc, pfcs, sf₆                                                                   0                           0
     total                                                                   5,268,211                      250,526




                                                                                                                          74

                           2016 sustainability report
                           planet / ghg emissions




                       2015 emissions by source
                               (total 5.5 million metric tons)


           1.3% other                                      1.6% gasoline
           73,735 metric tons                              86,743 metric tons
                                                           (on-road vehicle, nonvehicle uses)
           (natural gas, coal, propane,
           kerosene, jet fuel)
                                                                    4.5% electricity
                                                                    250,526 metric tons




92.6% diesel
5.1 m metric tons
(locomotive, biodiesel,
nonlocomotive, fuel oil)




 recognition



                 corporate leader in ghg disclosure
                 for the second consecutive year, norfolk southern in 2015 was named a u.s.
                 leader in disclosing greenhouse gas emissions and climate-change information
                 to investors and the marketplace through cdp, an environmental nonprofit.
                 ns achieved a score of 99 out of 100 for carbon disclosure to earn a place
                 on cdp’s 2015 s&p climate disclosure leadership index. the railroad scored
                 within the top 10 percent of standard & poor’s 500 index companies that
                 disclose information to cdp.




                                                                                                75

                                 2016 sustainability report
                                 planet / energy efficiency




                                   planet
                 2015 energy efficiency scorecard

    434.9 million                                                                     6%
kilowatt hours consumed                                          reduction in electricity-related
                                                                      co₂ emissions vs. 2014

                4%                                                             $423,987
      reduction in                                                      utility rebates for
 kilowatt hours vs. 2014                                            energy-efficiency upgrades



 juniata energy conversion: a sustainable business solution
 norfolk southern in 2015 launched a two-year energy-conversion project at its juniata locomotive
 shop that demonstrates the company’s commitment to improved operating efficiencies and stewardship
 of resources.

 the $53 million project replaces the facility’s heating and power systems, installing 21st century energy
 technologies to extend the life of a locomotive complex that has served america’s freight rail needs
 since the late 1800s.

 during 2015, ns replaced three 1950s coal-fired burners with cleaner, more efficient natural gas
 heaters. the company began installing a 1.2 megawatt combined heat and power unit that runs on
 natural gas and generates enough electricity to carry the complex’s base power load – reducing
 reliance on the regional utility’s power grid.

 the project significantly reduces ns’ environmental impacts. in 2015, largely as a result of the juniata
 conversion, ns reduced by 39 percent its scope 1 emissions associated with the company’s use of coal
 for energy. ns generated 17,464 metric tons of co₂ equivalent emissions from coal use, down from
 28,570 metric tons in 2014. in addition, replacement of leaky pipes that transport steam water for
 shop operations is expected to save about 49 million gallons of water annually.




                                                                                                             76

                                            2016 sustainability report
                                            planet / energy efficiency




                                                      an ns investment in pennsylvania
                                                      a complex of 16 shops, with 30 acres under roof, the juniata locomotive
                                                      shop in altoona, pa., is the largest locomotive repair facility in north america,
                                                      with a norfolk southern workforce of about 950 mechanical employees.
                                                      juniata is ns’ primary shop for engine overhauls and midlife tune-ups and is
                                                      headquarters for the company’s locomotive rebuild program – one of the
                                                      largest railroad recycling programs ever.

                                                      visit ns’ 2015 sustainability report to learn more about how employees
                                                      refurbish and outfit 1980s and 1990s model locomotives with upgraded
                                                      engines that are cleaner-burning and more fuel-efficient. the rebuild program
                                                      and energy-conversion project represent long-term investments to continually
                                                      improve ns’ sustainability and business performance.




                                       juniata project: fast facts




   50%                      $4 million                                      58%                          49 million
energy-efficiency                  annual savings                     annual reduction in                    annual water savings
  improvement                    in operating costs                   shop co₂ emissions                         in gallons


          cutting costs and energy use with lighting, hvac upgrades
          norfolk southern’s energy services group in 2015 continued a long-range plan to improve energy
          efficiency in railroad facilities. the effort aims to cut operating costs, decrease electricity use, and
          reduce environmental impacts associated with carbon emissions.

          lighting efficiency
          in 2015, the group oversaw lighting and hvac replacements that are expected to generate annual
          energy and maintenance savings of more than $2.1 million.

          the lighting projects equipped 31 facilities across the system with replacement bulbs and fixtures that
          last longer, use less energy, and emit a spectrum of light that enhances safety and security of night
          operations. the projects included seven ns intermodal facilities and yards in chicago; its harrisburg, pa.,
          intermodal facility; and its shelbyville, ky., auto mixing center.


                                              2015 lighting projects


          9,692                        31                 $4.9 million                                  2.6 years
       fixtures replaced        railroad facilities                  investment                            average payback

   13.6 million                                $2 million                                    9,539     metric tons
 kilowatt-hour electricity reduction     annual energy & maintenance savings             annual estimated co₂ savings




                                                                                                                                          77

                                2016 sustainability report
                                planet / energy efficiency




 by reducing the demand for power generation, the lighting projects are generating carbon savings
 equivalent to the energy needed to provide electricity to 1,409 homes for a year.

 hvac efficiency
 the energy group’s systematic approach to its heating, ventilating, and air-conditioning efficiency
 program looks for total building solutions to replace aging, uneconomical hvac systems. in 2015,
 the group completed projects targeting natural gas conversions from fuel oil, reconfiguration of
 ducting, and the addition of system controls. hvac replacement systems had an average seasonal
 energy efficiency rating of 18, better than the industry standard 13.

 in addition to operational and environmental savings, the hvac projects enhance working conditions
 for yard and shop employees.


                                      2015 hvac projects


        14                          7               $251,539                      $163,224
hvac systems replaced       railroad facilities          investment            annual operational savings




 energy upgrades at ns’ atlanta office earn rebates




 as part of energy-efficiency upgrades in 2015 at its operations headquarters in atlanta, norfolk southern
 earned more than $20,820 in rebates through georgia power’s commercial energy efficiency program.
 improvements to the goode building in midtown included installing more efficient lighting, lighting
 occupancy and daylight sensors, and variable frequency drives on heating and air-conditioning equipment.

 the upgrades are expected to reduce the high-rise building’s annual energy use by more than 654,000
 kilowatt-hours, lowering emissions of carbon dioxide equivalents by 540 metric tons. that’s equivalent
 to the typical annual energy use of more than 50 residences in the region.




                                                                                                             78

                                      2016 sustainability report
                                      planet / waste management




                                         planet
                   2015 waste management scorecard

 361,096 tons                                           77%                                     82,665 tons
waste generated 6%↓                           landfill diversion                                to landfill 23%↑
                                                vs. 82% in 2014




     efforts to improve waste management
     norfolk southern in 2015 completed the second year of an ongoing review to track and improve data
     collection and management of its business waste streams – a challenging task encompassing
     hundreds of work locations across 22 states.

     for the year, ns reduced total waste generated by 6 percent – a desired outcome. however, data
     collection indicated that a higher percentage of waste than in 2014 was sent to landfills, which ns is
     reviewing. in particular, ns is interested in increasing “blue bin” recycling rates at offices, yard, shop, and
     field facilities. in 2015, only 6 percent of such trash, including cans, bottles, and paper, was recycled.

     ns has formed a task force that is exploring opportunities to expand recycling, minimize waste, and
     reduce costs associated with waste management. the company in 2016 is evaluating third-party waste
     management services to apply lessons learned from data collected over the past two years.




                                                                                                                       79

                                  2016 sustainability report
                                  planet / waste management




                                  materials diversion
                                                   (in tons)




recycled trash                 recovered oil              mixed scrap metal & steel                 crossties

1,121                           5,280                           80,401                         185,724



            batteries (includes               fluorescent light bulbs             solvent recovery/

                                                      2.6
        lead-acid/nickel-cadmium)                                                   paint recycle

                  277                                                                   3.9

recycling and reusing waste oils
in 2015, norfolk southern recycled 100 percent of used oil collected at 26 locomotive and rail car
shops across the network. the company’s strategic sourcing group initiated this recycling program in
2013 as part of a life cycle sustainability initiative to control spending, enhance operating efficiencies,
and improve stewardship of resources.

the program’s goal is to reuse the oil to heat shop facilities to reduce utility costs or sell it to third-party
vendors for recycling and reuse. a third-party vendor collected 1.14 million gallons of used oil from ns in
2015. the vendor resells the oil for use in heating, manufacturing asphalt, or producing lube oil products.

oil recycled through this program represents
86 percent of used oil generated by ns business
operations. the remaining 14 percent includes oil
recovered from track equipment in the field by ns
rail gangs. ns reuses, recycles, or properly disposes
                                                                  1.44 million gallons
of used equipment oils in accordance with environ-                used oil and oily water
mental laws and regulations.                                      recycled in 2015




                                                                                                                   80

                                 2016 sustainability report
                                 planet / waste management




 proactive crosstie recycling
 the wooden crossties that hold steel rails in place are a vital
 part of railroad track infrastructure. norfolk southern installed
 2.4 million in 2015 alone. as part of sustainability efforts, ns
 works with vendors to recycle older crossties removed from
 rail service.

 in 2015, ns stepped up those efforts, creating a service contract
 for a vendor to immediately collect crossties removed by timber
 and surfacing gangs. the t&s gangs install new crossties and
 stage the removed ties near the track for collection.

 “it’s an organized effort to pick up the ties in a timely fashion,” said carla groves, senior manager
 purchasing. “having the vendor follow the gangs enables us to be more proactive, which helps the
 environment and increases operating efficiencies.”


                                   2015 recycled crossties

        energy use:                            landscaping:                        reused internally:

100,163 tons                           58,080 tons                            27,481 tons

 reducing ns’ environmental footprint
 norfolk southern operates a robust environmental protection program to ensure that railroad operations
 meet or exceed government rules and regulations put in place to protect the environment, including air
 and water quality.

 following are three examples from 2015 that highlight ns’ efforts to minimize the environmental impact
 of business operations in communities served by the railroad.

 capital upgrades: invested $7.9 million in railroad yard, shop, and field facilities such as wastewater
 treatment plants, spill containment systems, and stormwater management systems to ensure
 environmental compliance.

 site remediation: completed remediation projects on 15 impaired properties in compliance with state
 environmental requirements. among them is a 100-acre former rail car shop facility in lenoir city, tenn.,
 that ns is helping local and state economic development officials market for industrial redevelopment,
 bringing new jobs and tax revenue to the community.

 tank car safety: participated in and led industry efforts to enhance the safety of transporting flammable
 liquids by rail, including crude oil and ethanol. these efforts resulted in development of a new proposed
 tank car construction standard designed to reduce the chances of an explosion if a car derailed, leaked,
 and caught fire. the proposal garnered broad stakeholder support, including from the rail industry, tank
 car manufacturers, chemical shippers, and thermal blanket manufacturers.




                                                                                                             81

gri g4 index

                                          2016 sustainability report
                                          gri g4 index




                                gri g4 index
                               general standard disclosures
section                  disclosure #   disclosure compilation items                         page #/answer

strategy and analysis        g4-1       provide a statement from the most senior             ceo message
                                        decision-maker of the organization.

                             g4-2       provide a description of key impacts, risks,         reporting & materiality
                                        and opportunities.                                   cdp response

organizational profile       g4-3       report the name of the organization.                 strategy and performance
                                                                                             customer service

                            g4-4        report the primary brands, products,                 reporting & materiality
                                        and services.

                             g4-5       report the location of the organization’s            reporting & materiality
                                        headquarters.

                            g4-6        report the number of countries where the             economic engine
                                        organization operates.

                             g4-7       report the nature of ownership and legal form.       annual report

                             g4-8       report the markets served (including geographic      economic engine
                                        breakdown, sectors served, and types of
                                        customers and beneficiaries).

                             g4-9       report the scale of the organization.                corporate profile

                            g4-10       breakdown by employee type.                          workforce snapshot

                            g4-11       report the percentage of total employees             workforce snapshot
                                        covered by collective bargaining agreements.

                            g4-16       list memberships of associations (such as industry   governance
                                        associations) and national or international
                                        advocacy organizations.

identified material         g4-17       list all entities included in the organization’s     annual report
aspects and                             consolidated financial statements or
boundaries                              equivalent documents.

                            g4-18       explain the process for defining the report          reporting & materiality
                                        content and the aspect boundaries.

                            g4-23       report significant changes from previous             reporting & materiality
                                        reporting periods in the scope and aspect
                                        boundaries.




                                                                                                                        83

                                  2016 sustainability report
                                  gri g4 index




section          disclosure #   disclosure compilation items                        page #/answer

stakeholder         g4-24       provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged        stakeholder engagement
engagement                      by the organization.

report profile      g4-28       reporting period for information provided.          reporting & materiality

                    g4-30       reporting cycle.                                    reporting & materiality

                    g4-31       provide the contact point for questions             reporting & materiality
                                regarding the report or its contents.

                    g4-32       report the ‘in accordance’ option the               reporting & materiality
                                organization has chosen.

governance          g4-34       report the governance structure of the              governance
                                organization, including committees of the
                                highest governance body.

                    g4-35       report the process for delegating authority         governance
                                for economic, environmental, and social topics
                                from the highest governance body to senior
                                executives and other employees.

                    g4-36       report whether the organization has appointed       governance
                                an executive-level position or positions with
                                responsibility for economic, environmental, and
                                social topics, and whether post holders report
                                directly to the highest governance body.

                    g4-38       report the composition of the highest               governance
                                governance body and its committees.

                    g4-39       report whether the chair of the highest             governance
                                governance body is also an executive officer.

                    g4-40       report the nomination and selection processes       governance
                                for the highest governance body and its com-
                                mittees, and the criteria used for nominating and
                                selecting highest governance body members.

                    g4-41       report processes for the highest governance         governance
                                body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided
                                and managed.

                    g4-45       report the highest governance body’s role in        governance
                                the identification and management of economic,
                                environmenta,l and social impacts, risks, and
                                opportunities.

                    g4-46       report the highest governance body’s role in        governance
                                reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s
                                risk management processes for economic,
                                environmental, and social topics.

                    g4-48       report the highest committee or position that       governance
                                formally reviews and approves the organization’s
                                sustainability report.

                    g4-51       report the remuneration policies for the highest    governance
                                governance body and senior executives.

                    g4-52       report the process for determining                  governance
                                remuneration.



                                                                                                              84

                                                2016 sustainability report
                                                gri g4 index




section                    disclosure #     disclosure compilation items                        page #/answer

ethics and integrity             g4-56      describe the organization’s values, principles,     governance
                                            standards, and norms of behavior such, as
                                            codes of conduct and codes of ethics.

                                 g4-57      report the internal and external mechanisms for     governance
                                            seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior
                                            and matters related to organizational integrity,
                                            such as helplines or advice lines.

                                 g4-58      report the internal and external mechanisms         governance
                                            for reporting concerns about unethical or
                                            unlawful behavior and matters related to
                                            organizational integrity, such as escalation
                                            through line management, whistleblowing
                                            mechanisms, or hotlines.



                                    specific standard disclosures
category          aspect                    #       disclosure                                     page #/answer

economic          economic               g4-ec1     direct economic value generated                economic engine
                  performance                       and distributed.

                  economic               g4-ec2     financial implications and other risks         cdp response
                  performance                       and opportunities for the organization’s
                                                    activities due to climate change.

                  indirect economic      g4-ec7     development and impact of infrastructure       economic engine
                  impacts                           investments and services supported.

                  indirect economic      g4-ec8     significant indirect economic impacts,         economic engine
                  impacts                           including the extent of impacts.

                  procurement            g4-ec9     proportion of spending on local suppliers      supply chain
                  practices                         at significant locations of operation.

environmental     materials              g4-en1     materials used by weight or volume.            waste management

                  materials              g4-en2     percentage of materials used that are          waste management
                                                    recycled input materials.

                  energy                 g4-en3     energy consumption within the                  energy efficiency
                                                    organization.

                  energy                 g4-en5     energy intensity.                              energy efficiency

                  energy                 g4-en6     reduction of energy consumption.               energy efficiency

                  biodiversity           g4-en11    operational sites owned, leased, managed       carbon mitigation
                                                    in, or adjacent to, protected areas and
                                                    areas of high biodiversity value outside
                                                    protected areas.




                                                                                                                       85

                                       2016 sustainability report
                                       gri g4 index




category        aspect             #       disclosure                                         page #/answer

environmental   biodiversity    g4-en12    description of significant impacts of              carbon mitigation
                                           activities, products, and services on
                                           biodiversity in protected areas and
                                           areas of high biodiversity value outside
                                           protected areas.

                biodiversity    g4-en13    habitats protected or restored.                    carbon mitigation

                emissions       g4-en15    direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions              ghg emissions
                                           (scope 1).

                emissions       g4-en16    energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg)               ghg emissions
                                           emissions (scope 2).

                emissions       g4-en18    greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions intensity.          ghg emissions

                emissions       g4-en19    reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg)                  ghg emissions
                                           emissions

                emissions       g4-en21    nox, sox, and other significant air                ghg emissions
                                           emissions.

                effluents and   g4-en23    total weight of waste by type and disposal         waste management
                waste                      method.

                effluents and   g4-en25    weight of transported, imported, exported,         waste management
                waste                      or treated waste deemed hazardous under
                                           the terms of the basel convention.annex i,
                                           ii, iii, and viii, and percentage of transported
                                           waste shipped internationally.

                effluents and   g4-en26    identity, size, protected status, and              carbon mitigation
                waste                      biodiversity value of water bodies and
                                           related habitats significantly affected
                                           by the organization’s discharges of water
                                           and runoff.

                products and    g4-en27    extent of impact mitigation of environmental       carbon mitigation
                services                   impacts of products and services.

                compliance      g4-en29    monetary value of significant fines and            governance
                                           total number of non-monetary sanctions
                                           for non-compliance with environmental
                                           laws and regulations.

                transport       g4-en30    significant environmental impacts of               eco locomotives
                                           transporting products and other goods and
                                           materials for the organization’s operations,
                                           and transporting members of the workforce.

                overall         g4-en31    total environmental protection expenditures        economic engine
                                           and investments by type.                           waste management




                                                                                                                  86

                                             2016 sustainability report
                                             gri g4 index




category          aspect                 #       disclosure                                     page #/answer

labor practices   employment          g4-la1     total number and rates of new employee         workforce snapshot
and decent                                       hires and employee turnover by age group,
work                                             gender, and region.

                  occupational        g4-la5     percentage of total workforce represented      workplace safety
                  health and safety              in formal joint management–worker health
                                                 and safety committees that help monitor
                                                 and advise on occupational health and
                                                 safety programs.

                  occupational        g4-la6     type of injury and rates of injury, occupa-    workplace safety
                  health and safety              tional diseases, lost days, and absenteeism,
                                                 and total number of work-related fatalities,
                                                 by region and by gender.

                  training and        g4-la9     average hours of training per year per         workplace safety
                  education                      employee by gender, and by employee
                                                 category.

                  training and        g4-la10    programs for skills management and life-       training
                  education                      long learning that support the continued
                                                 employability of employees and assist
                                                 them in managing career endings.

                  diversity and       g4-la12    composition of governance bodies and           workforce snapshot
                  equal opportunity              breakdown of employees per employee
                                                 category according to gender, age group,
                                                 minority group membership, and other
                                                 indicators of diversity.

society           local               g4-so1     percentage of operations with implemented      philanthropy
                  communities                    local community engagement, impact
                                                 assessments, and development programs.

                  local               g4-so2     operations with significant actual and         community safety
                  communities                    potential negative impacts on local
                                                 communities.

                  public policy       g4-so6     total value of political contributions by      stakeholder engagement
                                                 country and recipient/beneficiary.

                  anti-competitive    g4-so7     total number of legal actions for anti-com-    no legal actions in 2015
                  behavior                       petitive behavior, antitrust, and monopoly
                                                 practices and their outcomes.




                                                                                                                           87
