list of contents
responsibility
corporate social responsibility at op-pohjola group 5
executive chairman’s review 6
megatrends, risks and opportunities in the financial sector 7
op-pohjola's mission and strategy 9
materiality in op-pohjola group's corporate social responsibility 10
management of corporate social responsibility 12
corporate social responsibility programme 16
local presence and society 17
stakeholder responsibility 20
responsible products and services 24
ethical business 28
environmental responsibility 30
gri corporate responsibility data 31
gri content index 32
gri perfomance indicators 43
management approaches 45
gri aspects in the financial sector 46
economic responsibility 48
environmental responsibility 50
social responsibility 52
gri reporting principles 58
responsibility: customer cases 62




op-pohjola group

1                                                                                                                responsibility 2013




responsibility
corporate social responsibility (csr) is an essential part of op-pohjola group’s operations and strategy. it is
founded on cooperative ideals, our values, our financial solvency and our capable risk management. our csr
measures encompass economic, social and environmental responsibility. our aim is to be a pioneer in csr within
our sector in finland.

kpi-indicators
kpis of corporate social responsibility programme                                                               objectives
                                                                             2011        2012        2013        2014         2016
local presence and society
capital adequacy ratio under the act on the supervision of financial          1.80        1.90        1.90         1.6          1.6
and insurance conglomerates
customer service performance reliability (%)                                 99.78       99.96      99.97       99.89        99.89
funding local projects (eur mill.)                                             3.3         3.1        2.6*
stakeholder responsibility
bonuses to owner-members (eur mill.)1                                          163        173         182
pohjola bank plc's dividend payout ratio (%)2                                   60          51        50**        ≥ 50        ≥ 50
average retirement age3                                                       61.5        61.5        61.6
job satisfaction (scale 1–5)                                                   3.9         3.9         3.9
share of member banks with representative assembly of all member                71          78       83***
banks (%)
responsible products and services
private customers' ebills (1,000 pcs)                                        2,955       4,981     13,200      22,000       30,000
corporate customers' ebills (1,000 pcs)                                      5,519       7,388      9,200      25,000       32,000
omasairaala hospital: quicker treatment period (days)4                                              43****
ethical business
recommended by private customers5                                             *****       58.0
banking services                                                                                        73
insurance services                                                                                      54
recommended by corporate customers (net promoter score)6                        31          32
banking services                                                                                        38
insurance services                                                                                      12
environment
                                                                                                                         -5% from
                                                                                                   35,003                 previous
carbon footprint of the group's own operations (tons of co2)               34,847      32,743       ******       -0.01        year
number of employees in green offices                                         2,550       2,815      2,493       3,000        5,000



1 bonuses accumulated


2 dividend policy: dividend payout ratio at least 50%, provided that core tier 1 ratio remains at least 10%. the executive board,

which acts as the board of directors of op-pohjola group central cooperative, pohjola bank plc's parent institution, has
proposed on 6 january 2014 to the board of directors of pohjola bank plc that pohjola group's dividend payout ratio be
decreased from 50% to 30% as of dividend distribution for the financial year 2014 until the cet1 ratio reaches the new target of
15%. pohjola bank plc's board of directors will assess the proposals before the annual general meeting of 20 march 2014.

3 does not include seesam insurance companies




op-pohjola group

2                                                                                                                    responsibility 2013

4 hospital opened in 2013.


5 & 6 a minor specification was added in 2013: the respondents were told that on a scale 0-1, 5=neutral. in addition, the score for

banking and insurance activities is reported separately.



* in 2013, a decision was made to donate eur 1 million to the new childrens' hospital. the payment is spread over 2013-2017.

** proposal of the board of directors.

*** the first simultaneous election of representative assemblies were held in 62 group cooperative banks in the autumn of 2013.
op-pohjola’s supervisory board has set the target of 90% for 2017.

****average of the treatment and recovery period (= total disability period) for three so-called standard operations in bodily injuries
under statutory workers’ compensation insurance treated with the relevant standard operation.

***** no comparable history information from 2011.

****** scope 1 and 2. the reported increase in the carbon footprint of op-pohjola's own activities was largely due to a more
extensive data compilation on member banks' property.




op-pohjola group

3                                                                                                            responsibility 2013



gri indicators
                                                                                          2011           2012             2013
ec3 coverage of defined benefit pension plan in excess of obligations (eur
mill.)1                                                                                      71             -6                 -4
ec6 percentage of local suppliers                                                            97             98                99
g4-10 number of company employees                                                       13,229          13,290          11,983
     permanently employed                                                               12,213          12,468          11,241
     employed for fixed term                                                             1,016             822             742
g4-10 number of employees
     full-time                                                                          12,149          12,176          11,047
     part-time                                                                           1,080           1,114             936
g4-11 percentage of total employees covered bycollective bargaining agreements                ..          92%             91%
g4-54 difference between highest and median annual earnings (only in finland)                 ..             ..            22*
g4-55 change in highest and median annual earnings (only in finland)                          ..             ..         0.9%*
g4-la1 new employee hires                                                                     ..             ..         1,445*
g4-la1 terminated work relationships                                                                                    2,720*
g4-la1 terminated permanent work relationships                                                ..             ..         1,643*
g4-la1 turnover of permanent employees                                                      6.4            6.1            9.8**
g4-la3 return to work rate after parental leave (only in finland)                             ..             ..          97%*
g4-la3 retention rate after parental leave (only in finland)                                  ..             ..          94%*
g4-la5 percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–
worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational
health and safety programs                                                                    ..             ..          88%*
g4-la6 percentage of sick days of regular working hours (only in finland)                   3.5            3.6                3.6
g4-la9 percentage of training expenses of the payroll bill (only in finland)                2.5            2.5                2.0
g4-la11 percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career
development reviews                                                                         90*             87                88
g4-la12 breakdown of employees by gender
     male                                                                                    27             27                26
     female                                                                                  73             73                74
g4-la12 breakdown of employees by age group
     under 30 years                                                                        17%            16%             15%
     30–39 years                                                                           21%            25%             27%
     40–49 years                                                                           25%            23%             21%
     over 49 years                                                                         37%            36%             37%
g4-la12 breakdown of employees by employee category
     management                                                                             2%             4%                 4%
     supervisors                                                                           11%            10%             10%
     experts                                                                               27%            30%             28%
     employees                                                                             60%            56%             58%
g4-la12 average age of staff                                                               43.0           43.1            43.2
en3 energy consumption (gj)2                                                           162,229        205,900         179,483
en15 and 16 greenhouse gas emissions (tons)                                             46,369          41,519          42,924



1 op-pohjola group's financial statement, note 39, provisions and other liabilities


2 contains: electricity consumed by office premises in op-pohjola group central cooperative consolidated's use, and by data

centres within the haaga and teollisuuskatu premises, and heating energy consumed by office premises in op-pohjola group



op-pohjola group

4                                                                                            responsibility 2013

central cooperative consolidated's use.



* these indicators have not been reported before 2013, so no comparison data is available.

** excluding business transfers




op-pohjola group

5                                                                                                                      responsibility 2013




corporate social responsibility at op-pohjola
corporate social responsibility (csr) is an essential part of op-pohjola group’s operations and strategy. it is founded on cooperative
ideals, our values, our financial solvency and our capable risk management. our csr measures encompass economic, social and
environmental responsibility. our aim is to be a pioneer in csr within our sector in finland.




op-pohjola group

6                                                                                                                        responsibility 2013




executive chairman’s csr statement
the foundation of op-pohjola group's operation is customer ownership. in accordance with our basic mission, we promote the
sustainable prosperity, well-being and security of our owner-members, customers and operating regions through our local presence.
our values, that is, people-first approach, responsibility and prospering together, guide our decision-making. we operate in the long
term.

our social responsibility has been entered as an integral part of op-pohjola group's strategy. it guides our business so that we take the
responsibility aspect into consideration in product and service development and in how we go about financing, investment and non-life
insurance matters. we will invest in active, open and transparent communication and stakeholder engagement.

we are one of finland's biggest employers. our principle is that responsibility as an employer can only be achieved in the long run if we
have our finances in balance. we have faith in finnish expertise. we consider it a matter of honour to pull our weight in financing
public services. we are one of the biggest payers of corporate income tax.

responsibility is not just big words, it also requires action. in the context of corporate social responsibility (csr), we aim to pioneer in
the financial sector in finland. we were among the first to make our corporate social responsibility report using the new g4
requirements of global reporting initiative (gri) that were updated in 2013. our work is made easier by the recent materiality analysis
which confirms that we have focused on the right issues in our csr programme. op-pohjola group's csr cornerstones consist of our
role in finnish society and in the creation of local wellbeing, ethical business practices, responsible products and services as well as
responsibility for stakeholders and the environment.

we have adopted a code of business ethics that applies to the entire personnel. un's global compact initiative and the international
agreements to which we are signatories require us to follow a set of common rules.

2013 was successful for us also in terms of csr matters. our financial performance is good, and our market position became even
better. at the same time, we were able to maintain our capital adequacy at a good level, 17,3 (core tier 1). we also made progress in
terms of the targets we had set ourselves in the corporate social responsibility programme.

op-pohjola group breaths the same air as finland, and as a major national player, we have a large influence on finnish life and
wellbeing. this is a heavy responsibility and therefore our group must be strong and live up to its expectations. since the beginning of
the financial crisis, that is, during the last five years, the corporate loan stock in the euro area has shrunk by 9 percent. in the
meantime, however, the finnish corporate loan stock has gone up by an impressive 19 percent. op-pohjola group accounts for two
thirds of that increase. this is one clear indication of our will to contribute to finland's wellbeing.

in 2013, we invested a record amount, almost 150 million euros, on product and service development. op mobile's growth into
becoming the primary point of access for private banking customers is ongoing. users value our mobile services very highly, and the
innovative pivo service is a forerunner in smart wallets. with omasairaala hospital, we are leading the way in the development of
health care processes.

our helsinki premises, the vallila 2015 office building project, is proceeding according to plans and has already been awarded its first
leed certificate. we are also making a donation to the new children's hospital in helsinki. it is a major project and an investment that
will provide many jobs for years to come.

the instability of our operating environment goes on, and economic growth is expected to be modest. at the same time, the financial
sector is undergoing radical changes. low interest rates and slow growth, structural changes, taxation and tighter and tighter
regulation have an effect on operations, and the effects can be felt all the way to the customers. the new situation requires banks to
have much bigger economic buffers. even though the operating environment is changing, we must ensure that we work cost-
effectively while adjusting to future challenges in the financial sector. we intend to be fully operational in any eventuality in order that
we can do our part in keeping finland's financing and payment system and insurance market running and that we can ensure our
customers the services they require.

reijo karhinen

president and ceo




op-pohjola group

7                                                                                                                      responsibility 2013




megatrends, risks and opportunities in the
financial sector
the financial sector is shaped by diverse megatrends, which are drivers of change coming from outside the industry. megatrends are
broad currents recognisable as phenomena or series of phenomena, which have a recognisable direction based on past developments,
and which can be expected to continue going in the same direction. megatrends usually spread widely and affect the society, the
economy, politics, the environment and technology. they influence the focal points of op-pohjola’s strategy and csr programme, and
therefore they are regularly re-evaluated. op-pohjola updated its views on megatrends in 2013. the major megatrends in 2013 were
globalisation, demographic changes, digitisation, economic rebalancing, increased regulation and supervision, and an emphasis on
sustainable development. all these change trends are closely connected to csr efforts.

globalisation brings societies, economies and operators closer and closer to each other. the financial sector is expected to display
increasing sensitivity in its reactions, adaptability and international service competence. the trend also emphasises the need for
responsibility in op-pohjola’s supply chain and international investment decisions, among other functions.

the demographic changes that are taking place, especially in the western world, arise from rising life expectancy and ageing
populations. meanwhile, population growth is accelerating and urbanisation continues around the world. the financial sector’s role in
safeguarding welfare and providing services for the elderly is becoming emphasised.

digitisation is generating a diversity of information at an accelerating pace. financial services must be available to customers
independently of time and place. new e-services are increasingly important, and new technology is harnessed for improved customer
experiences.

the rebalancing of the economy requires structural reforms. efforts to reduce indebtedness and improve fiscal adjustment are slowing
down economic growth in many western countries. the financial and capital markets remain uncertain. at the same time,
international regulation and supervision of the financial sector are increasing, and the sector must adjust to the new atmosphere.
capital adequacy, funding structures and liquidity are being reinforced. increasing attention is paid to consumer protection.

sustainable development is related to the major global challenges caused by scant natural resources, efficient use of them, and climate
change. all operators are expected to act more transparently and responsibly. increasing attention is paid to reputation risk, also in the
financial sector. meanwhile, the emphasis on sustainable development is creating opportunities for responsible financial products and
services.

op-pohjola's value chain




op-pohjola group

8                                       responsibility 2013


op-pohjola's value chain
enlarge the picture by clicking on it




op-pohjola group

9                                                                                                                      responsibility 2013




mission and strategy of op-pohjola group
op-pohjola's mission is to promote the sustainable prosperity, safety and wellbeing of its owner-members, customers and operating
regions. op-pohjola’s values are responsibility, a people-first approach and prospering together. in line with these values, op-pohjola
operates locally, regionally and nationally, as an ethically responsible company.

according to our strategy, corporate social responsibility is an essential part of op-pohjola group’s operations. our csr is founded on
cooperative ideals, our values, our financial solvency and our capable risk management. csr activities take economic, social and
environmental responsibility into consideration. our aim is to be a pioneer in csr within our sector in finland.

op-pohjola is a responsible employer that supports staff development and wellbeing. the group bears its portion of responsibility for
the functionality of the finnish financing and payment transaction system, and for the finnish insurance market. op-pohjola focuses
on the development of responsible products and services, and engages in ongoing efforts to improve responsible financing, investment
and non-life insurance practices.

additionally, the company strives to conduct active, open and transparent communications and stakeholder relations, and to promote
its customers’ financial literacy. op-pohjola’s social objective is to arrange responsible services in welfare, security and accommodation
which generate sustainable financial performance in finland.




op-pohjola group

10                                                                                                                    responsibility 2013




materiality in csr at op-pohjola (g4-18)
op-pohjola group’s corporate social responsibility report contains the material issues related to the major financial, social and
environmental impacts of the group’s operations and those which may have significance on the decisions and choices of the group’s
stakeholders. the purpose of csr reporting is to increase the group’s openness and transparency, and thereby to improve its
stakeholders’ opportunities for operational evaluation and decision-making. the material aspects of csr at op-pohjola group are
emphasised in the group’s csr programme.

op-pohjola updated its csr materiality assessment in 2013 to correspond to the new gri g4 guidelines. the previous materiality
assessment was from 2011 and it resulted in the group defining the most important spheres of influence and measures related to its
csr. the materiality assessment was also used to find out the stakeholders’ expectations regarding responsibility, and to analyse the
impacts on business of csr actions.

the materiality assessment started with a revision of the main aspects of csr at op-pohjola, and by identifying the changes in the
group’s operating environment which have affected csr. particular attention was paid to the aspects of csr which are critical in
terms of op-pohjola’s operations, products, services and corporate relations. extensive impacts were identified throughout the value
chain. a stakeholder survey was conducted in september 2013 to assess the significance of the aspects which had been identified. the
online survey was answered by representatives of private and corporate customers, administration, personnel, investors,
subcontractors and other external stakeholders. there were 437 responses. csr was subdivided into four aspects in the survey: the
role op-pohjola plays in the finnish society; responsible products and services; responsibility for stakeholders; and environmental
responsibility.

based on the stakeholders’ responses, the most important aspects of csr at op-pohjola are the confidentiality and protection of
customer data, development of staff competence, extensive e-services in banking and insurance, competent risk assessment, fair
remuneration and compensation policies and financial solvency. other aspects of csr rated as material were good corporate
governance practice, recognition of responsibility in the choice of partners and subcontractors, continued development of e-services in
banking and insurance, and equal opportunities.

further matters that were rated as important were assessing the level of responsibility of all investments, actively fighting financial
crime and misdeeds, ensuring the operational reliability of financial infrastructures, the carbon footprint of op-pohjola’s own
operations, responsible marketing, including csr risks in risk management, and responsible product innovations that support
customers at various stages in their lives. the conclusions of our own materiality assessment are supported by the survey yritysten
maine ja vastuullisuus 2013 (“corporate reputation and responsibility 2013”) conducted by tns gallup (november 2013), where the
greater public cited products and services as the most critical aspect of reputation and responsibility for op-pohjola, followed by
financial responsibility. environmental responsibility was rated as less of a priority in the financial sector. all in all, the survey
confirmed op-pohjola’s image as one of the leading financial sector operators in finland within csr.

the respondents to the stakeholder survey supported op-pohjola’s philosophy of developing csr as an indelible part of business
operations. according to stakeholders’ views, the significance of electronic banking and insurance services has grown as a part of
responsibility. similarly, there is a greater emphasis than before on the role of good corporate governance practice in the fulfilment of
csr.

in setting the prioritisation of the various aspects of its csr programme, besides the stakeholder survey, op-pohjola took into account
its strategy and csr policies. based on this materiality assessment, op-pohjola has chosen its most critical csr aspects and reports
their data and key figures in accordance with the gri g4 guidelines. these aspects are listed in the gri content index.




op-pohjola group

11                 responsibility 2013




op-pohjola group

12                                                                                                                    responsibility 2013




management of corporate social
responsibility
csr at op-pohjola group is based on cooperative ideals, financial solvency and capable risk management. strategic csr management
is the responsibility of the executive board of op-pohjola group central cooperative. the aim is that csr management will be a close-
knit part of operational management. on the group central cooperative executive board, csr comes under the chief communications
officer’s remit. decisions on ethical matters are made by the executive board.

the group’s operational activities are guided by the op-pohjola csr programme. operational responsibility for practical csr measures
lies with the boards of directors and executive boards of the organisations belonging to the group, in accordance with their own
decision-making processes. since the start of 2013, the csr programme has come under the operations of the corporate identity and
communication steering group.

csr management is evaluated as a part of business operations, and therefore the csr kpis are business indicators. as a consequence
of such an evaluation, some of the group’s operating policies were updated in 2013, and the need for new policies was reviewed.

in the group’s cooperative banks, it is the duty of the managing director to have guidelines defined by the central cooperative – among
them, those for handling conflicts of interest in op-pohjola group – approved by the bank’s board of directors. the group’s
organisations are recommended to process these guidelines together with personnel, following statutory procedures for employer-
employee negotiations.

the annual report of op-pohjola group lists the main positions of trust and pohjola shareholdings of executive board members.
additionally, the shareholdings of persons included in the public insider register can be checked in public registers.

major new products, services and operating models or significant changes to existing ones are, when necessary, assessed by the
executive board, which ultimately decides on whether they should be adopted.

the executive board is informed of significant realised risks as a part of monthly risk reviews. risk maps, updated annually, are used to
identify the critical risks affecting operations, including environmental, social and corporate governance (esg) risks. these maps are
used to conduct an analysis on the basis of which the executive management are informed of critical phenomena.

op-pohjola group’s corporate governance is based on finnish legislation, the finnish corporate governance code and the group’s own
corporate governance recommendations. csr comes under these corporate governance principles.

read more about op-pohjola group’s corporate governance principles

read more about pohjola bank plc’s corporate governance principles

in the case of possible disputes, customers are asked to contact the fine advisory committee of the financial industry, whose members
comprehensively represent the industry’s stakeholders.

monitoring the code of business ethics
the group’s code of business ethics applies to all of the personnel and management. if any examples of continuous or significant
violations of good business practice are observed, the group supervisory board cautions the board of the organisation in question.

in accordance with the group’s code of business ethics, in intra-group conflicts the chief audit executive can be notified confidentially
of any violations.




op-pohjola group

13                                                                                                           responsibility 2013



op-pohjola corporate social responsibility programme
the op-pohjola corporate social responsibility programme was first formulated based on a materiality assessment conducted in
2011, when key performance indicators (kpis) and targets were set for the group’s csr programme and cooperative activities. the
materiality assessment was updated in the autumn of 2013, and the results of the assessment were used to set measures for 2014
and to review the csr kpis and targets. the kpis were revised in 2013, setting targets for 2014 and 2016.




op-pohjola group

14                                                                                                                   responsibility 2013

kpis of corporate social responsibility programme                                                                   objectives
                                                                                2011        2012        2013         2014         2016
local presence and society
capital adequacy ratio under the act on the supervision of financial             1.80        1.90        1.90          1.6          1.6
and insurance conglomerates
customer service performance reliability (%)                                   99.78        99.96       99.97       99.89        99.89
funding local projects (eur mill.)                                                3.3         3.1        2.6*
stakeholder responsibility
bonuses to owner-members (eur mill.)1                                            163         173          182
pohjola bank plc's dividend payout ratio (%)2                                      60          51        50**        ≥ 50         ≥ 50
average retirement age3                                                          61.5        61.5        61.6
job satisfaction (scale 1–5)                                                      3.9         3.9         3.9
share of member banks with representative assembly of all member                   71          78       83***
banks (%)
responsible products and services
private customers' ebills (1,000 pcs)                                          2,955        4,981     13,200       22,000       30,000
corporate customers' ebills (1,000 pcs)                                        5,519        7,388       9,200      25,000       32,000
omasairaala hospital: quicker treatment period (days)4                                                 43****
ethical business
recommended by private customers5                                                *****       58.0
banking services                                                                                           73
insurance services                                                                                         54
recommended by corporate customers (net promoter score)6                           31          32
banking services                                                                                           38
insurance services                                                                                         12
environment
                                                                                                                             -5% from
                                                                                                      35,003                  previous
carbon footprint of the group's own operations (tons of co₂)                  34,847      32,743       ******        -0.01        year
number of employees in green offices                                           2,550        2,815       2,493       3,000        5,000



1 bonuses accumulated

2 dividend policy: dividend payout ratio at least 50%, provided that core tier 1 ratio remains at least 10%. the executive board,
which acts as the board of directors of op-pohjola group central cooperative, pohjola bank plc's parent institution, has
proposed on 6 january 2014 to the board of directors of pohjola bank plc that pohjola group's dividend payout ratio be
decreased from 50% to 30% as of dividend distribution for the financial year 2014 until the cet1 ratio reaches the new target of
15%. pohjola bank plc's board of directors will assess the proposals before the annual general meeting of 20 march 2014.
3 does not include seesam insurance companies

4 hospital opened in 2013.

5 & 6 a minor specification was added in 2013: the respondents were told that on a scale 0-10, 5=neutral. in addition, the score for
banking and insurance activities is reported separately.



* in 2013, a decision was made to donate eur 1 million to the new childrens' hospital. the payment is spread over 2013-2017.

** proposal of the board of directors.

*** the first simultaneous election of representative assemblies were held in 62 group cooperative banks in the autumn of 2013.
op-pohjola’s supervisory board has set the target of 90% for 2017.

****average of the treatment and recovery period (= total disability period) for three so-called standard operations in bodily injuries
under statutory workers’ compensation insurance treated with the relevant standard operation.


op-pohjola group

15                                                                                                                   responsibility 2013

***** no comparable history information from 2011.

****** scope 1 and 2. the reported increase in the carbon footprint of op-pohjola's own activities was largely due to a more
extensive data compilation on member banks' property.



international commitments
besides applicable laws and regulations, op-pohjola group is committed to abiding by international agreements related to its
operations. at the end of 2011, op-pohjola signed the global compact, which binds the group to ten united nations principles in the
areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. the global compact principles have been integrated into the
group’s new supplier contracts and online training for personnel in business ethics and csr, observing the global compact, was
launched.

op fund management company and pohjola asset management were among finland’s first asset management companies to sign the
un principles for responsible investment in 2009. since then, they have developed responsible investment practices with even greater
determination, and participated in wider development efforts in the sector. both companies are also founding members of finland’s
sustainable investment forum (finsif). op-pohjola group is also involved in the corporate social responsibility working group of the
federation of finnish financial services, in finnish business & society (fibs) and the corporate social responsibility and co-operative
affairs working group of the european association of co-operative banks (eacb). op fund management company is a partner of the
finnish association for nature conservation, and op-pohjola is a wwf partner.

op-pohjola has actively followed the development of guidelines for the financial sector as part of the oecd guidelines for multinational
enterprises. the oecd guidelines comprise voluntary csr principles and standards, as well as instructions for applying legislation to
international business operations.

as in previous years, in 2013 op-pohjola responded to the cdp survey, which gathers information from large corporations on their
actions to combat climate change and reduce greenhouse gases. cdp is used to draw the attention of companies to their
environmental responsibility. in 2013, op-pohjola’s score in the survey was 79/100, which was above the average.




op-pohjola group

16                                                                                                                 responsibility 2013




corporate social responsibility programme
op-pohjola group’s corporate social responsibility programme comprises five themes, with kpis for each theme and targets for each
kpi.

local presence and society focuses on the group’s local and regional operations, and on op-pohjola’s status in finland’s financial
infrastructure.

stakeholder responsibility encompasses measures and dialogue related to diverse stakeholders, as well as other matters affecting
employee and customer satisfaction. it also covers transparent and clear communications and marketing.

responsible products and services covers responsible investment, development of a responsible lending process, improvement of the
responsible non-life insurance model, and the responsibility of banking and insurance services. the responsibilities here are social,
economic and environmental.

ethical business comprises the code of business ethics, as well as other guidelines and how they are observed in the group.

environment deals with the environmental impacts of the group’s own operations.




op-pohjola group

17                                                                                                                   responsibility 2013




local presence and society
one of op-pohjola’s values is ‘prospering together’. in line with this, the group takes active part in developing local and regional
vitality. the objective is to build long-term trust in the group’s local relations with diverse stakeholders. the group boasts finland’s
largest network of banking and insurance services. this means that customers have equal access to services, wherever they live.

op-pohjola group operates from about 500 locations around the country and is therefore well placed to engage with local
communities. the group also offers a wide range of electronic banking and insurance services.



responsibility for finnish infrastructure
the purpose of risk and capital adequacy management is to secure the risk-bearing capacity of op-pohjola group and its
organisations, and to ensure that the group’s ability to operate is not jeopardised over the long term. the group’s capital adequacy is
strong, measured both under the act on supervision of financial and insurance conglomerates (rava) and in accordance with the act
on financial institutions.

the recent financial crisis led to the capital adequacy regulations for banks in the european union being tightened in an effort to
improve the quality of their capital base, to increase capital buffers, to reduce the cyclic nature of capital requirements, to decrease
banks’ indebtedness and to set quantitative limits to liquidity risk. these changes will take effect in 2014–2019. the solvency
regulations of the insurance sector are changing, too. changes in the insurance sector’s solvency ii regulations aim to improve the
quality of insurance companies’ capital base, improve their risk management, increase the risk-based solvency requirements and
harmonise insurance sector solvency requirements in europe. eu-level regulations will be implemented in stages from the start of
2016. op-pohjola group is actively preparing for these regulatory changes.

more details on the current and forecast capital adequacy of the group are given in op-pohjola group financial statements, which can
be found on the website op.fi.

the group's basic lending principles remained unchanged in 2013. the weaker economic climate did not affect the number of non-
performing loans and credit losses, which remained low.

finnish direct debits will come to an end at the end of january 2014, as part of the transfer to the single euro payments area (sepa).
as a replacement for the service, op-pohjola has recommended that its customers take into use efficient and environmentally friendly
e-invoices. a supplementary service offered by op-pohjola is a new direct payment, which allows for automation of bill payments even
for those who do not use online banking. op-pohjola also accepts e-invoice and direct payment orders on paper in order to assist with
the fundraising practices of charities and the banking practices of senior citizens.



development of transaction channels
responsibility at op-pohjola involves the development of transaction channels so that they meet customers’ evolving needs. the group
continues actively to develop e-services that make everyday life easier for its customers. during 2013, the group made available a
secure online chat facility through which customers can discuss matters such as mortgages with a bank representative from home
over the internet. customers can book an appointment on the internet to meet either at a bank branch, by telephone or online, or
contact the bank through the online chat system.

today, most of the daily business done with customers takes place electronically. this is why op-pohjola expanded its selection of
mobile services in 2013. customers have widely adopted the use of new smartphone applications, and it continues to grow. in late
2013, mobile services already accounted for one fifth of e-services, and their rapid growth is expected to continue. at the end of the
year, an english-language version of the mobile banking application was released.

the pivo mobile wallet was launched in the autumn of 2013 as the result of hundreds of customer interviews and surveys. pivo is a
smartphone app that helps users understand their finances and make use of diverse discounts in everyday shopping. it provides easy
but secure access to the user’s bank balance and a short-term financial forecast, simply with the entry of a pass code. in the future,
pivo will also make it possible to shop and pay by smartphone. pivo has proven its worth to customers from the very start: it is used
much more frequently than our other e-services – daily by many users.

the roll-out of the new facility and service model for osuuspankki bank branches began in 2013 with two branches, helsingin op
pankki in tapiola and tampereen seudun op in hervanta. the first experiences of the new premises have been very positive. the
objective of the new service model is to take the different kinds of customer groups that visit the branch better into account.




op-pohjola group

18                                                                                                                   responsibility 2013


ensuring data protection
op-pohjola pays particular attention to the operational reliability of electronic banking and insurance services. the group predictively
and actively evaluates and develops security solutions for electronic customer services, and systematically works to improve data
security.

during 2013 op-pohjola continued to enhance the security of its services and the ability to react to potential cyber attacks. the group
also further increased its collaboration with the authorities and other operators in the financial sector to prevent abuse related to
electronic services, and to speed up the handling of abuse cases.

the additional confirmation function adopted in 2011 for online payments was developed further in 2013. this is a security solution
that offers customers enhanced security against any malware that may have infected their computers. in 2013 op-pohjola improved
its ability to detect misuse of the op online service, and to report on these cases to the authorities and to customers.



local projects
national, local and regional projects and events involving various stakeholders form an integral part of op-pohjola group’s csr
programme. the long-term objective for these is to fulfil the group’s mission in collaboration with stakeholders.

op-pohjola group has made a partnership agreement with a charity that is running the campaign to build a new children’s hospital in
helsinki. along with this agreement, op-pohjola will contribute one million euros towards the construction of the hospital. the amount
of this contribution will be increased through various actions together with personnel, customers and other stakeholder groups, as well
as the support charity until 2017.

the member banks organise local events and projects across the country. decisions on these activities are made locally. the largest
cooperative banks took part in the me & my city event, which is a study module on work, society and entrepreneurship for sixth-
graders. as in previous years, the cooperative banks also contributed to projects seeking employment opportunities for young people,
and supported diverse local cultural events, clubs and societies. for example, 579 adolescents participated in the course driver's
licence for working life (ajokortti työelämään) organised together by op-banks and the 4h youth unions.

for its part, seesam insurance company has for several years supported a traffic safety campaign in the baltic region, within which
those who drive during the midsummer holiday pledge to stay sober and to look out for their friends. in 2013 more than 2,000 people
took part in the pledge.

in 2013, op-pohjola and three other banks took part in an initiative of the president of finland with the aim of helping young people
manage their daily finances. the project has been running in the helsinki, riihimäki, joensuu, jyväskylä and oulu regions. local youth
workers have gathered together young people from their own areas, who have been able to meet with bank representatives to discuss
basic financial management matters. the feedback from the young people has been good and the bank volunteers have been
enthusiastic about participating in the valuable work.




op-pohjola group

19                                                                                                                   responsibility 2013


financial literacy
op-pohjola has a focus on promoting financial literacy and knowledge of banking and insurance matters in finland. the group has
conducted surveys on finns’ financial literacy during several consecutive years, including 2013. the survey found that ordinary citizens
feel that their own bank is the primary place to turn to when they have questions about their finances. for young people, family and
friends were also important in this respect. the groups found to be most active in following financial matters were senior citizens and
the self-employed.

the member banks hold local events for young and elderly citizens, as well as events related to various financial topics for private and
corporate customers. start days enterprise start-up events, for example, have been held around finland for many years. the events
are arranged by the member banks in collaboration with pohjola insurance. their target group are those considering starting up or
buying a business. cooperation with educational institutions forms an important aspect of the work to maintain financial literacy. this
cooperation takes the form of theses, student visits, work experience places and recruitment fairs. in addition, the member banks have
organised small-scale local events related to teaching financial skills and financial literacy to young people and senior citizens.

the banks also held events with various financial themes, for private customers and companies. pohjola bank in collaboration with
local cooperative banks held investor strategy events, which attracted nearly 10,000 customers from various parts of finland in 2013.
besides giving market reviews, these events focused on interpreting economic development signals and explaining terms related to the
european debt crisis.

customer magazines play a significant role in promoting financial literacy. op-pohjola magazine is finland’s third most read magazine
(kmt, spring 2013) and its aim is to speak about banking and insurance matters in clear terms to its more than 1.4 million readers.
op-pohjola publishes the chydenius magazine, whose mission is to provoke social discussion and present the views of prominent
opinion leaders. op-pohjola group also has other customer magazines for specific target groups. the group aims to use its own
website and social media (such as facebook and twitter) to increase interaction with customers and as a tool in communicating on
financial issues.




op-pohjola group

20                                                                                                                     responsibility 2013




stakeholder responsibility (g4-24, g4-25, g4-
26, g4-27)
stakeholder engagement is deeply embedded into op-pohjola’s cooperative business model. op-pohjola has identified its major
stakeholder – those parties who have the greatest impact on the group’s operations and whose actions the group in turn influences.
op-pohjola conducts continuous, open dialogue with its stakeholders.

one of the main principles of stakeholder engagement is to interact with stakeholders in order to identify aspects in op-pohjola’s csr
which require development. the csr materiality assessment involved a comprehensive set of representatives from the major
stakeholder groups. the stakeholder’s expectations with regard to csr were particularly related to customer data confidentiality and
protection. other matters pointed out by the stakeholders are presented in the section discussing the materiality assessment.

an important element of stakeholder engagement lies in various projects and events throughout finland. in addition to major
nationwide projects, op-pohjola organises numerous local projects and events. the group actively conducts dialogues in and with the
media.

the stakeholders recognised as being of major importance are listed in the following table.

op-pohjola's stakeholders
human resources                               local and regional communities                  non-governmental organisations
the 2013 employee survey showed a good the local member banks organise a variety              during 2013, op-pohjola met with various
performance especially in job satisfaction, of stakeholder events in their local              ngos to discuss e.g. some of the
occupational welfare and leadership.         communities.                                     investments of op fund management
the personnel considers the fulfilment of    in relation to the vallila project, an event     company and also responded to a survey on
equal opportunities to be particularly       was held for local residents’ associations in    so-called land seizure.
important, and this is monitored separately. january, before demolition began.
                                                                                              op-pohjola meets with all the unions of
                                                                                              salaried employees twice a year.
industry associations                         media                                           schools and universities
op-pohjola is a member of working groups according to the pr barometer 2013, which the member banks give regular
of the eacb and the federation of finnish surveys journalists, op-pohjola is among        presentations on financial matters to local
financial services (fk), and takes part in the the top five finnish companies with regard children and adolescents.
operations of fibs and finsif. op-pohjola to handling of media relations and image.       cooperation has been made with
commented on the european union’s non- the journalists had particular praise for the universities around finland for example in
financial reporting directive proposal as      comments given by op-pohjola’s experts     the form of lectures or visits, joint research
part of the csr activities of fk and eacb.     and for their general attitude towards the projects, internships and final theses.
in addition, op-pohjola participates in the media. one of the improvements called for
work of iif (the institute of international    by the respondents was more active
finance) and its various working groups.       contacts and better information provided
                                               online.
                                              customers, owner-members and                    representative assembly and
authorities and decions-makers                investors                                       administration
op-pohjola carries out close dialogue with    the group continuously collects its         simultaneous representative assembly
the authorities, and looks after its          customers’ views through a feedback         elections were carried out at 62 member
stakeholders’ interests.                      system, and owner-members are invited to banks.
                                              take part in the banks’ administrations.    dialogue with the administrative bodies is
                                              customers have the opportunity to take part conducted via an administrative newsletter.
                                              in product and service development through the training selection for administrative
                                              a customer community.                       personnel will be updated during 2014 upon
                                                                                          their own request.



owner-members and shareholders
every customer of a cooperative bank can become an owner-member of their own bank. at year-end 2013, there were 1.4 million
owner-members. owner-members can participate in the bank’s administration and decision-making. owner-members have excellent
opportunities to have their say through the service network, a feedback system and the member banks’ administrations. in accordance
with the principles of cooperative business, the cooperative banks distribute op bonuses to their owner-members, in proportion to
their rate of involvement in the bank’s operations. bonus customers receive benefits, such as discounts on the daily financial services
package and insurance premiums. during 2013 a total of eur 182 million (2012: eur 173 million) was paid out in bonuses.

op-pohjola group member banks own a significant portion of the listed group company pohjola bank plc, and, like other shareholders,


op-pohjola group

21                                                                                                                   responsibility 2013

op-pohjola group member banks own a significant portion of the listed group company pohjola bank plc, and, like other shareholders,
they receive a dividend from the bank’s profits. consequently, the banks’ owner-members also benefit from pohjola bank’s profit
sharing. in 2013, dividends paid by pohjola bank to its shareholders amounted to eur 145 million.



representative assembly
in cooperative banks, the highest decision-making body is the representative assembly or, in the absence of such an assembly, the
cooperative meeting. in op-pohjola, the aim is for at least the largest member banks to have a representative assembly. an assembly
is a more democratic alternative, particularly if a bank has thousands or even tens of thousands of owner-members.

autumn 2013 saw the first simultaneous representative assembly elections in 62 member banks, resulting in the election of almost
2,000 representative members. there were more than 5,000 candidates for the posts, i.e. over 2.5 times as many candidates as there
were positions. there were more than 900,000 owner-members with a right to vote, meaning around two thirds of all the owner-
members. an online election engine was in place to assist in finding the right candidate, and votes could be cast online or by mail. the
internet was a popular choice, with 22 percent voting via the op online service. the voters also contributed to fundraising efforts for
the new children’s hospital: because the voter turnout in the 62 banks averaged 34 per cent, op-pohjola donated an extra eur 20,000
to the hospital.

currently, already 82,5 percent of owner-members belong to banks that have a representative assembly. the target is to raise this
figure to 90 per cent by 2017. among the duties of the representative assembly is adoption of the bank’s financial statements and
balance sheet, as well as election of the supervisory board, which in turn elects the board of directors. the representative assembly
is also a stepping stone to other administrative duties within the bank. moreover, assembly members are provided with training in
banking operations and financial matters.



engagement of administration
at op-pohjola, administration refers to the members of the supervisory boards and boards of directors of the group's member banks
as well as the members of the supervisory board of the central cooperative, while members of the representative assembly are not
deemed part of administration. the supervisory board oversees the board of directors and managing director in the management of
the cooperative bank and elects the board of directors. it also approves the bank’s principles of capital adequacy management. the
supervisory board confirms the bylaws of the bank, which deal with matters of far-reaching and fundamental importance, as well as
deciding on the division of duties between the managing director and board of directors. the supervisory board elects the board of
directors and, upon a proposal by the board of directors, the managing director. the board of directors is the central decision-making
body in a cooperative bank. it sees to the proper organisation of the bank's management and operations. to achieve continued success,
the board of directors also ensures that the bank’s business operations are systematic, efficient and profitable, adaptable to changes
in the operating environment and well-managed in terms of risks.

members of the banks’ boards of directors have the opportunity to participate in training involving an in-depth discussion of
cooperative banks’ operations and objectives. members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards are also able to take op-
pohjola’s online courses on cooperative and banking operations, as well as other topics. an electronic newsletter is sent to the member
banks’ administrative members. this is a quick way of communicating about topical issues.

in 2013, and extensive development program was launched for the members of administration at the group's member banks. its
objective is to create a systematic programme for the development of expertise in various administrative positions. thus, administrative
positions at op-pohjola become a unique vantage point, an opportunity to enhance one's expertise and lay a career path into various
administrative positions within the group.



human resources
op-pohjola aims to be the financial sector’s most attractive employer, and one of the most desirable employers amongst major finnish
companies. the group wants to turn staff competence and continuous renewal throughout the career path into a success factor for
itself.

in accordance with the op-pohjola 2012 strategy, the focus of development in 2013–2015 will be on developing management skills,
supervisory work, the governance of the cooperative banks, and occupational well-being. additional efforts will be made in performance
management, enhancing remuneration systems and increasing internal mobility. this is to ensure diverse career advancement and
competence development opportunities for personnel within the group.

an extensive project to develop occupational well-being began at op-pohjola in autumn 2012. as part of this project, most of the




op-pohjola group

22                                                                                                                    responsibility 2013

an extensive project to develop occupational well-being began at op-pohjola in autumn 2012. as part of this project, most of the
group’s companies and organisations insured its personnel under extensive health insurance as of 1 january 2013. by late 2013, over
90 percent of the group’s personnel were insured. the insurance supports work ability and encourages all personnel to look after their
well-being. the focus of occupational health care has shifted even further towards preventive action. in addition, supervisors are
trained to identify risks related to work ability.

op-pohjola has undergone a major reorganisation during 2012–2013, as a continuation of the restructuring of op-pohjola group
central cooperative consolidated, which began in 2010. current challenges in the operating environment and growing regulation in the
financial sector require higher capital adequacy and profitability in future years. the group’s aim has been to increase the efficiency
and centralisation of functions, and eliminate redundancy. in conjunction with the restructuring, during 2013 around 500 employees
were moved through business transfers to the employ of partners that provide services for op-pohjola group. seven of op-pohjola
group’s member banks conducted personnel negotiations during the year with the aim of streamlining operations due to low interest
rate level, increased regulation in the financial sector and changes in customer behaviour.

op-pohjola monitors job satisfaction and occupational well-being with an employee survey and a personnel pulse. on the basis of the
survey results, operations are developed at work community, company and group level. op-pohjola conducted a group-level survey in
september 2013. all in all, 7,599 people responded to the survey (response rate 83%), comprising 4,035 people at the central
cooperative, 3,335 at member banks and 228 at opkk branches. the overall average score was 3.83 (on a scale of 1–5).

the overall result was at a solid level, despite the major reforms during the year. especially good results were achieved in employee job
satisfaction, occupational well-being and leadership. the biggest positive changes compared to the previous year took place in the
expediency of work facilities, gender equality and leadership work.

particular weight is put on the fulfilment of equal opportunities, and this is also monitored separately in addition to the employee
survey. an extensive equality survey is conducted at least every three years, and implementation of the company-specific annual plans
is monitored annually.

the main objective of the equality plan is to support the functioning of a fair and equal workplace, and to promote structural changes
among diverse personnel groups to make the proportions of women and men as equal as possible. equality planning also allows for
changes in personnel structure to be supported through management training choices, for example, by ensuring there are enough
potential women on management and executive career tracks.



supply chain
op-pohjola’s centralised procurement function supports the procurement of the group’s various operators by offering expert
assistance on acquiring products, services and related rights. the supply chain also includes a network of partners offered by the non-
life insurance provider to its customers. apart from this, the group’s functions look after their own fundraising and investment-related
acquisitions.

the aim is to ensure that the acquired products, services and rights are cost-effective, reliable and ethical, and that suppliers are
managed professionally to the benefit of op-pohjola and its customers. there are five category groups with the task of recognising the
business needs of their own areas and formulating targets and actions plans accordingly.

in op-pohjola group, purchase contracts and orders must be based on group-level framework agreements made by the group’s
procurement functions wherever applicable. these agreements require that suppliers comply with op-pohjola group’s good business
practices and with the global compact, as well as with all the applicable laws and regulations.

insurance compensation partnerships have transferred to a centralised operating model in relation to moisture surveys, demolition
work and post-loss damage prevention. the network of building construction partners is being expanded nationwide, and only
companies rated as reliable partners by suomen tilaajavastuu oy are used for damage repairs. the group’s car dealerships operate
according to the standards and best practices of the sector, complying with environmental regulations. customers needing a
replacement car are recommended to rent a low-emission vehicle.

in 2013, there were around 22,000 suppliers providing products and services to op-pohjola group, while the group’s indirect total
purchases totalled some eur 570 million. finnish suppliers accounted for around 99 percent of this. op-pohjola’s procurement chain
is focused around finland and finnish services, in particular. this keeps the csr risk level low in procurement.

as part of the reorganisation carried out in late 2012, the ict procurement function, previously belonging to the ict services, was




op-pohjola group

23                                                                                                                     responsibility 2013

as part of the reorganisation carried out in late 2012, the ict procurement function, previously belonging to the ict services, was
merged into the central procurement function and cooperation was increased with the partner administration of pohjola insurance.
the role of centralised procurement in relation to the business functions was clarified, particularly in the central cooperative. with the
reorganisation, the role of op-services is shifting from a service provider to a service integrator, which outsources and acquires
extensive packages of services. in the autumn 2013, ict services outsourced 496 of its personnel and transferred its application
development and maintenance to accenture and cgi. this ict services transformation plan is a continuation of the efficiency-
enhancement programme launched within op-pohjola group central cooperative consolidated in autumn 2012 and it forms an
important part of the efforts to improve the group's future competitiveness.

op-pohjola group develops its supply chain audit methods as part of its overall governance procedures. because csr is integrated into
daily operations, the fulfilment of environmental and social responsibility policies and related risks are assessed within ordinary
business processes. in line with procurement guidelines, all new and updated contracts now include principles from the global compact
as well as csr principles recognised within op-pohjola group.

the supplier management risk survey includes assessment of the supplier’s csr risks, on the basis of which an action plan for
reducing and managing said risks may be made.




op-pohjola group

24                                                                                                                       responsibility 2013




responsible products and services
op-pohjola invests heavily in the development of responsible products and services, through continuous improvement of its operating
models in the areas of responsible investment, financing and insurance. in product and service development, the aim is to ensure
responsible operations throughout the value chain, from the perspective of both environmental and social responsibility. during 2013,
csr criteria were incorporated into the product and service development operating model. one objective of product development is for
products to be easy to use and understand. products must be user-friendly and take account of the individual needs of customers of
all ages living in different areas.

in 2013 op-pohjola adopted new ways of listening to its customers’ views and engaging them in the development of services and
products through the electronic customer community paja. services are extensively tested on various customer groups at different
stages of development.

one particular area of development is the provision of comprehensive services electronically. e-services increase efficiency for both the
customer and op-pohjola and may reduce environmental impact. they are also equally accessible to customers in the whole country.



development of e-services
op-pohjola actively promotes the electronic availability and usability of its services because there are many benefits to be gained from
e-services. the group’s stakeholders consider the development of e-services to be a crucial aspect of csr at op-pohjola.

in 2013, active efforts were made to replace paper insurance policies with electronic ones, and during the year more than 200,000
customers digitised their insurance mailings (around 12,000 in 2012). the number of paper appendices decreased by over 1.3 million
and the number of paper pages by 10 million compared to the previous year thanks to digitisation and efforts to shorten and reduce
printed materials. the use of the online claims service doubled during 2013, which also significantly reduced paper mailouts. currently
around half of insurance customers use the online service for making claims.

the prior growth in the use of online bank statements and e-invoices continued. most of op-pohjola group’s customers have opted to
receive online statements instead of paper statements. in 2013, a good 300,000 fewer paper statements were sent out to customers
than in 2012, and by the end of the year only 33 per cent of online banking customers received statements on paper. during the year,
customers received around 13.2 million e-invoices in the op online service (2012: approx. 13 million), and by the end of 2013, 61 per
cent of active online banking customers received their bills in the form of e-invoices. electronic invoicing increases billing efficiency and
saves time for companies. for this reason, e-invoicing is offered as a fixed part of the basic payment transaction service. during 2013,
the group’s corporate customers sent a total of around 9.2 million e-invoices.

op-pohjola recommends using the e-invoice service as a replacement for the finnish direct debit system, which will be terminated in
january 2014. throughout the year, customers were offered an easy way to transfer from direct debit to e-invoices.

there was lively debate around mobile payments and mobile management of daily financial matters in 2013. mobile services make it
possible to serve customers as close as possible to the customers. pivo will bring together all the services needed by consumers at the
time of purchase in one mobile app, including a bank balance display, a personal financial forecast, information on nearby shops and
services, benefits, discount coupons and receipts. in future, pivo will also allow for secure payments of purchases by smartphone.



responsible investment
responsible investment is an integral part of normal investment activities for op-pohjola. the group believes that paying attention to
the sustainability of investment targets and encouraging companies to carry out increasingly sustainable operations will help in the
fulfilment of long-term business and investment objectives.

op-pohjola group’s wealth management units – op fund management company and pohjola asset management – have signed the
united nations principles for responsible investment (unpri) and work to develop responsible investment accordingly. at pohjola asset
management, responsible investment comprises positive and negative screening, tracking of international standards, and active
ownership together with op fund management.

op fund management has outsourced the portfolio management of the investment funds it manages, with pohjola asset management
taking care of most of them. at op fund management, responsible investment means taking csr matters into account in the choice of
portfolio manager and implementing active and responsible ownership policies.




op-pohjola group

25                                                                                                                 responsibility 2013




the procedures for responsible investment were revised in 2013. consequently, processes were defined for monitoring investees’
violations of international standards, and for responding to such cases. the decision was made to exclude companies producing anti-
personnel mines and cluster weapons from actively managed funds.

during 2013 pohjola asset management again conducted its own esg survey, gathering information among other things on board
remuneration in finnish listed companies. additionally op-pohjola’s stockbrokerage and analysis unit, pohjola investment banking,
included esg themes in its stock analysis for three years. pohjola investment banking’s responsibility analysis currently covers all
companies in the omx helsinki 25 index, excluding pohjola bank. during 2013 the stock analysis organised more than 100 investor
meetings with finnish listed companies, with extensive discussions on responsibility matters and related indicators. the same applied
to investor meetings with european listed companies arranged in collaboration with the european securities network (esn).

as usual, pohjola asset management and op fund management took part in the carbon disclosure project and the water disclosure
project during 2013. the purpose of these projects is to encourage businesses all over the world to pay attention to the environmental
impacts and reporting of their operations and to seek solutions to matters related to climate change and water consumption. as in
earlier years, pohjola asset management and op fund management took part in the operations of finsif in 2013. the purpose of this
forum is to increase awareness of responsible investment in finland. op fund management and pohjola asset management are two of
the forum’s founding members.

pohjola property management ltd, as part of the pohjola wealth management segment, is also committed to the principles of
responsible investment and observes them in its real estate asset management. in the maintenance of its directly owned properties
and in its new investments, the company places an emphasis on energy efficiency and waste management together with a technical
manager. during 2012 the company initiated a project for further developing the recognition and utilisation of esg factors in property
asset management.

pohjola property management is a widely recognised international operator in indirect property investments. the company’s experts




op-pohjola group

26                                                                                                                     responsibility 2013

pohjola property management is a widely recognised international operator in indirect property investments. the company’s experts
actively use their influence in order to make esg factors be noted by the boards and investment committees of various target funds
and companies. in new investments, the company does its best to negotiate the inclusion of esg factors in the target fund or
company’s investment activity from the initial agreement stage. the company also strives to agree on regular esg reporting with the
target funds and companies. as part of its indirect property portfolio, pohjola property management administers two funds of funds in
the form of limited partnerships, which invest in europe. quarterly reports are sent to fund investors on the fulfilment of esg
requirements in the underlying property funds. this is done by agreement with the investors in the fund’s investment documentation.
additionally, pohjola property management reports separately on the sustainability of its direct property investments.



responsible banking services

financing for private customers
op-pohjola group’s good business practices and ethical lending principles govern activities also in the provision of financing to private
customers. economic and social responsibility are emphasised in these activities. regulations related to good lending practices and the
recommendations of the financial supervisory authority are observed in lending and in related instructions. the op-kiinteistökeskus
real estate brokerage chain, in turn, is committed to good agency practices and to developing these with others in the sector. good
agency practice focuses around taking into account the overall interests of customers, whether they are selling or buying.

op-pohjola group operates within private financing with a far-ranging approach, striving to form sustainable customer relations.
credit is only given after thorough analysis of the customer’s debt repayment ability. loans are dimensioned according to the
customer’s payment ability in such a way that financial buffers are in place in case of interest rate rises and small surprises. topics
discussed through concrete example calculations with the customer include the impact of an increase in interest rates on loan
servicing costs and the loan period. op-pohjola group does its best to ensure consumer protection by avoiding excessive credit, also by
applying the crediting recommendations of the financial supervisory authority.

op-pohjola’s extensive selection of products and services forms a solid basis for comprehensive solutions that take into account the
credit applicant’s best financial interests and safety. comprehensive financing options mean that customers can consolidate all their
loans to op-pohjola group, which makes it easier for them to manage their finances. when negotiating new loans, customers are
offered the most suitable financing option for them, on clear and reasonable terms. when credit is given, customers are as a rule told
of ways to protect themselves against unforeseen life circumstances and interest rate rises with specifically designed products.
customers also have access to the services of the group’s nationwide real estate agency op-kiinteistökeskus, and this makes it
exceptionally easy for those planning to change homes to ensure the overall financial success of the process in advance.

young people in particular need help in financial literacy. the op.fi service contains plenty of information on applying for and managing
loans. the website also has advice for preventing the appearance or worsening of financial difficulties, and for managing situations of
insolvency. customers who fall into financial difficulties are advised to contact their bank as soon as possible, because early
intervention usually means that there are more potential measures available for fixing the situation.

op-pohjola group has formulated guidelines for early detection and fixing of customers’ credit problems. temporary repayment issues
are approached in an understanding manner, striving to assist the customer through difficult times by reorganising loans – for
example by granting repayment-free periods or extending the loan period. however, if the financial difficulties appear to be
permanent, the problem is not ignored and the customer’s difficulties are not worsened by providing inappropriate payment period
changes or additional loans. if the fulfilment of loan obligations requires the sale of collateral property, customers are usually offered
the opportunity to sell it voluntarily first.

financing for corporate customers
the finance industry bears significant indirect social responsibility. in line with the global compact, op-pohjola is committed to
promoting respect for human rights and fundamental values at work, as well as environmental protection and anti-corruption
activities. op-pohjola’s ethical principles and codes of financing incorporate social and environmental responsibility, which act as
yardsticks in the making of financing decisions.

recognising and analysing the environmental impacts of financed projects is also important from the perspective of risk management.
the likelihood of environmental risks varies depending on factors such as the project to be financed, the geographical location of the
business and the sector. it is crucial for the evaluation to recognise potential risks in major projects and risky sectors. at op-pohjola,
evaluating recognised environmental risks is a part of the ordinary creditworthiness analysis. besides making its own analysis, the
company will when necessary require evaluations from independent experts of the environmental risks or the more extensive
corporate social responsibility of a business or project. the recognised risks affect the credit decision and, where applicable, loan
terms.

a responsible financing working group was established at op-pohjola in 2012. on the group’s request, the loan terms applied in op-




op-pohjola group

27                                                                                                                    responsibility 2013

a responsible financing working group was established at op-pohjola in 2012. on the group’s request, the loan terms applied in op-
pohjola’s corporate financing were revised, and suggested changes were implemented in some financing agreements in 2013. the
changes emphasise the responsibility of the debtor in cases such as compliance with environmental legislation and permits applicable
to the business or with specific terms set for the case in question. the changes improved the bank’s ability to evaluate lending
responsibility by increasing the debtor’s information provision obligations (e.g. environmental reporting) and by linking these to the
terms on which the loan is obtained or cancelled. the group is currently evaluating to what extent it should implement the changes in
all of its loan agreements.

op-pohjola’s corporate financing is based on long-term customer relationships, with a geographical emphasis on local areas. op-
pohjola has considered joining the equator principles for project financing, but has not done it so far due to the small number of
projects that are covered by the principles. the group is closely following the development of the equator principles, however, and will
reconsider the matter when potential new projects arise.



responsible insurance services
the duty of an insurance company is to ensure that customers are sufficiently aware of their risks, and that possible damage does not
pose insurmountable financial difficulties to the party suffering the loss. a non-life insurance company covers risks which are too large
for the customer to bear. it is also responsible for promoting the customer’s risk management and safety and the prevention of
damages. op-pohjola maps potential risks and security issues together with the customer, optimising insurance solutions individually
for each customer.

during 2013, pohjola launched a risk management method for corporate customers, which helps companies improve their security
processes comprehensively and in new ways. for example, the new risk management method allows for security observations to be
made on a mobile basis. also in 2013, pohjola presented one national and 18 regional security awards to corporate customers that
had developed security and risk management in a responsible manner within their companies. with the help of an external partner, in
2013 the group’s insurance functions drew attention to the maintenance of electrical installations and equipment in businesses, on
farms and among public bodies. the identification of critical safety deficiencies in churches of high cultural and historical value,
followed by repairs carried out by a partner, has prevented extensive damages.

in 2013, the group launched the kotiturvapalvelu (safe home service) for private customers. the service improves home safety by
offering tools for the prevention or early detection of fires, break-ins and water leaks. in 2014, a similar service will be launched for
business customers and tools and methods will be developed for customers to evaluate their own risks and to identify tools for
improving their safety.

op-pohjola is also focusing on new ways of ensuring the well-being of private customers and of the employees of corporate
customers. in 2013 the group launched a unique package of products for private customers which foster health and well-being and
promote recovery. we offer our customers even more extensive treatment for the benefit of their health and well-being. we want to
protect our customers’ lives from birth to old age, so we are giving up upper age limits for insurance policies almost entirely.
companies are offered both statutory and voluntary insurances, as well as related services for managing personnel accidents and
health risks. we support the well-being of corporate customers’ personnel by offering concrete tools for improving management,
increasing job satisfaction and enhancing the company’s image as an employer, for example.

the omasairaala day surgery centre opened in helsinki in early 2013. the centre focuses on the examination and treatment of
orthopaedic illnesses and injuries. omasairaala has succeeded in shortening the treatment chain, i.e. the total duration of incapacity to
work, significantly ever since it started operating. quick access to proper treatment and rehabilitation and swift recovery are important
not only for the patient but also for the employer and the society as a whole.

another objective is to identify risks in work ability and on this basis to focus on reducing these risks and thereby increasing business
productivity. omasairaala aims to provide a peerless customer experience. this is measured with a net recommendation index which
can be followed in real time on the omasairaala website. omasairaala strives to care for injuries as quickly as possible after an
accident. in october 2013 the centre opened an accident station which is open during evenings and weekends.




op-pohjola group

28                                                                                                                       responsibility 2013




ethical business operations
op-pohjola group builds long-term customer relationships based on mutual trust. customer confidence is the prerequisite for
successful operations in the financial sector. bolstered by strong professional skills, the group bears responsibility for the high quality,
expertise and reliability of its services, as well as for the security of its services and products.



code of business ethics
the principles of corporate social responsibility are summarised in op-pohjola in a code of business ethics, approved by the
supervisory board of op-pohjola group central cooperative consolidated. the code provides an ethical foundation for all those
employed by op-pohjola, whatever their role, position or location. these shared principles rely heavily on the group’s values, and form
a significant part of csr. as of early 2014, the code is available at op-pohjola's website.

an online course on the code of business ethics was launched towards the end of 2012, with the aim of ensuring the adoption of the
code throughout the group. the course was provided in seven languages to make sure that almost every single op-pohjola employee
was able to take it in his or her mother tongue. by the end of 2013, 80 per cent of group employees had completed the online course
and committed to following the code. continuous training is provided in order to enhance employees’ professional expertise, giving a
wide range of training opportunities in various areas of banking and insurance, including insider regulations, ethics, data security and
legislation.

op-pohjola group is committed to good banking and insurance practices. this requires the application of customer due diligence and
awareness of each customer’s financial standing to the necessary extent. in 2012 the group implemented a guide to handling conflicts
of interest at op-pohjola group. the instructions describe methods for ensuring that op-pohjola group complies with legislation,
official regulations and instructions, and the principles of ethical sustainability in all its operations.

anyone who notices practices that violate these principles can discuss it with their line manager, with hr or with compliance.
confidential messages can also be sent on the matter to the group’s chief audit executive. situations of actual or suspected conflicts
of interest should be reported to both line manager and the operational risk and compliance function or only to the latter, in which
case the matter is handled with anonymity for the person making the report.



risk management
risk-taking is an inherent part of banking and insurance operations. at op-pohjola group, the purpose of risk management is to
identify the threats and opportunities affecting the group’s operations. the primary objective of risk management is to secure the risk-
bearing capacity of all entities within the group and to ensure that they are not exposed to excessive risk that may endanger the
profitability, solvency or continuity of the entity’s operations, or those of the entire op-pohjola group.

the effectiveness of the risk and solvency management efforts of the group and its organisations is evaluated in an annually updated
icaap report. internal audits are conducted each year to examine the state of internal controls and solvency. the ability of the top
management to assess the effectiveness of risk management operations is continuously developed.

in making decisions applying to new products, decision-makers must always have access to an assessment of the risks related to the
product, approved by the risk management function of the central cooperative. the risk assessment process is the responsibility of the
business or service unit or organisation that has developed the product. risk assessment refers to identifying the risks included in a
new product under development, evaluating the scope of potential risks and planning the controls and measures that are needed for
managing these risks. risk assessment must always be carried out before deciding to take a new product into use or, in large-scale
projects, before product development begins.

major new products, services and operating models or significant changes to existing ones are, when necessary, assessed by the
executive board, which ultimately decides on whether they should be adopted. the executive board is informed of significant realised
risks (including csr risks) as a part of monthly risk reviews. risk maps are updated each year, identifying the main risks applicable to
operations. when necessary, this includes csr risks. these maps are used to conduct an analysis on the basis of which the executive
management are informed of critical phenomena. in 2013 the executive board was informed of reputation-related risk effects within
the scope of csr.

regulation of the financial sector sets strict requirements for business operations. as operational risks increase, it is extremely
important to identify and assess these risks and to ensure sufficient, functional control and management measures are in place. in its
operations, op-pohjola takes into account compliance risk as a part of operational risk. the aim of compliance risk management is to
ensure that all operations comply with external regulations and internal procedures, and that customer relationships are appropriately
handled.


op-pohjola group

29                                                                                                                    responsibility 2013

at op-pohjola group, compliance with instructions and regulations is an integral part of daily operations, and its importance will only
increase in future. op-pohjola complies with industry regulations, good banking, insurance and real estate agency practices, and good
stock market practices. in addition, the group adheres to several acts, as well as regulations and guidelines issued by supervisory
authorities. prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing is a statutory obligation (act on preventing and clearing money
laundering and terrorist financing, 503/2008) for all those operating in the financial sector in finland. op-pohjola group sees to it
that its employees are aware of the obligations set out under legislation, to the extent necessary for the performance of their duties.

in 2013 op-pohjola implemented a policy of requiring compliance approval for investments into so-called tax-efficient regions, which
may legally be used to avoid multiple taxation in international investments. particular attention is paid to responsible investment
principles, the global compact and the oecd guidelines when investing in offshore areas.

the operational risk and compliance function bears overall responsibility for providing advice on ethical principles. the function
operates independently of the business areas. every employee of op-pohjola group must comply with the following instructions
approved by the group: good business practices and handling conflicts of interest at op-pohjola group. more details on these
instructions and their approval can be found in the annual report. the operational risk and compliance function offers advice on the
application of the instructions. all requests for advice are handled confidentially, but they cannot be made anonymously. statistics have
not been compiled on the total number of requests coming in or on satisfaction with the services.



customer statisfaction
op-pohjola treats its customers according to good business practices, equally and professionally. customer satisfaction is monitored
through a customer satisfaction survey conducted on a regular basis. feedback from customers is important and all feedback and
complaints are taken seriously.

op-pohjola continuously monitors how many customers would be prepared to recommend the group as a service provider. for op-
pohjola group’s private customers, the recommendation rate is followed using a continuous tracking survey. in the survey,
respondents grade their main bank and insurance company on a scale of 1–5. the survey was responded to by 9,725 private
customers in 2013.

among corporate customers, measurements of recommendation willingness are taken annually using net promoter score (nps)
surveys. nps is based on a recommendation question graded on a scale of 0–10. responses to the survey were received from 1,353
smes in 2013.



responsible marketing
op-pohjola is committed to responsible marketing and advertising. the group complies with marketing legislation and the self-
regulation guidelines of international organisations, including those of the international chamber of commerce (icc). op-pohjola also
abides by the marketing guidelines of the consumer agency and the financial supervisory authority . in marketing, op-pohjola aims to
provide all information on products and services that may be of importance to customers when making decisions. marketing directed at
children and young people is highly restricted. op-pohjola takes account of this group’s general inexperience and limited legal capacity.




op-pohjola group

30                                                                                                                       responsibility 2013




environmental responsibility
op-pohjola’s operations have direct and indirect environmental impacts, and the group is committed to taking account of these. it is
important for op-pohjola to raise environmental awareness among its customers, offering products and services that allow the group
to mitigate the environmental effects of the entire value chain. e-services and document digitisation play a central role in this.

op-pohjola systematically develops its environmental management practices and strives to promote solutions that cause less harm to
the environment, such as telecommuting and video conferencing. op-pohjola’s largest offices have the green office environmental
system run by wwf finland, which aims to reduce the environmental impacts of energy consumption, waste production and paper use
in offices, and to promote environmental awareness among personnel. the objective is to extend the use of green office within the
whole group.

the group’s vallila offices have leed certificates, in addition to which the omasairaala renovation project was carried out in
accordance with leed requirements. for example, the energy consumption of all the major consumption points in the surgical centre
(e.g. magnetic resonance imaging, ventilation machine and refrigeration machine) is measured separately. lighting and material
choices as well as the cleaning plan have also been made following leed requirements.

op-pohjola group’s carbon footprint for 2013 was approx. 42,924 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (41,582 co2t in 2012). of the
carbon footprint, approximately 74 (73) per cent was caused by electricity and heating in offices, 11.5 (10.5) per cent by transport and
7 (8) per cent by paper use. the error margin of the calculation is 11.5 (13.6) per cent. the group’s objective is to reduce its carbon
footprint each year.



renovation of offices and work methods
the central cooperative’s offices in vallila, helsinki, are being renovated between 2012 and 2015. after the changes, the personnel of
the central cooperative will all work on the same block and there will be no more travel between two workspaces as of 2015. within
the project, op-pohjola is creating a workplace of the future, emphasising interpersonal interaction, technological possibilities and
attention to corporate social responsibility.

to reduced the carbon footprint of its own operations, op-pohjola has taken into use the leed environmental classification system
granted by the u.s. green building council as proof of the environmental efficiency of buildings. leed certification was applied for two
of the block’s buildings in 2013; applications for the other five buildings will be made in the next few years. the a building of the block
received gold-level leed certification in october 2013, and vääksy 2 in january 2014.

the central location of the block in helsinki gives good opportunities in terms of public transport use. after the completion of the vallila
2015 project, there will also be even better opportunities for commuting by bicycle, as the block will contain 900 bicycle parking spaces.




op-pohjola group

31                                                                                                               responsibility 2013




gri corporate responsibility data
op-pohjola group’s sustainability reporting has been implemented by integrating it with the group’s annual reporting. the corporate
social responsibility report has been prepared in compliance with the global reporting initiative (gri) sustainability reporting
guidelines. besides new gri g4 guidelines, consideration was also taken of the gri financial services sector supplement. op-pohjola
group’s sustainability reporting also encompasses information required by the united nations global compact, with regard to the
promotion of principles related to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption activities.




op-pohjola group

32                                                                                                                   responsibility 2013




gri content index
the gri content index shows where, in op-pohjola group’s annual report, the disclosures referred to in the gri guidelines can be
found. standard disclosures are mainly presented in the corporate responsibility section. in addition, standard disclosures are included
in the following sections: op-pohjola group in 2013, business operations, and structure and governance. the gri content index has
been prepared in accordance with the guidelines provided by the gri financial services sector supplement.

op-pohjola group’s gri reporting contains all information and indicators, identified by a materiality assessment as being significant to
stakeholders and the group’s business operations.



gri content index
         fully reported

         partly reported

         not reported



         externally assured

         not externally assured




                                                                                                 external
         gri content                                 location                          coverage assurance                explanation
         strategy and analysis
g4-1     ceo’s statement                             executive chairman’s csr
                                                     statement
g4-2     key impacts, risks and opportunities        megatrends, risks and
                                                     opportunities in the financial
                                                     sector
         organizational profile
g4-3     name of the organization                    op-pohjola group

g4-4     primary brands, products and services op-pohjola group

g4-5     location of the organization’s              op-pohjola group
         headquarters
g4-6     number of countries where the           op-pohjola group
         organization operates, and names of
         countries where either the organization
         has significant operations or that are
         specifically relevant to the
         sustainability topics covered in the
         report
g4-7     nature of ownership and legal form          op-pohjola group

g4-8     market areas                                op-pohjola group

g4-9     scale of the organization                   op-pohjola group

g4-10    total number of employees by                personnel structure
         employment contract, employment
         type, region and gender
g4-11    percentage of total employees covered labour/management relations
         by collective bargaining agreements


op-pohjola group

33                                                                                  responsibility 2013

g4-12   organization’s supply chain                 supply chain

g4-13   significant changes during the              highlights 2013
        reporting period regarding the
        organization’s size, structure,
        ownership, or its supply chain
                                                    supply chain

g4-14   whether and how the precautionary           risk management
        approach or principle is addressed by
        the organization
g4-15   externally developed economic,            international commitments
        environmental and social charters,
        principles, or other initiatives to which
        the organization subscribes or which it
        endorses
g4-16   memberships of associations and             international commitments
        national or international advocacy
        organizations
        identified material aspects and boundaries
g4-17   entities included in the organization’s     financial statements, note 55
        consolidated financial statements
g4-18   process for defining the report content materiality in csr at op-
                                                pohjola
                                                    gri reporting principles
                                                    definition of materiality
g4-19   material aspects                            identified material aspects

g4-20   list of entities or groups of entities      entities included
        within the organization for which the
        aspects are material
g4-21   list of entities or groups of entities      entities included
        outside of the organization for which
        the aspects are material
g4-22   effect of any restatements of               no restatements
        information provided in previous
        reports, and the reasons for such
        restatements
g4-23   significant changes from previous           no restatements
        reporting periods in the scope and
        aspect boundaries
        stakeholder engagement
g4-24   list of stakeholder groups engaged by stakeholder responsibility
        the organization
g4-25   basis for identification and selection of   stakeholder responsibility
        stakeholders with whom to engage
g4-26   organization’s approach to stakeholder stakeholder responsibility
        engagement
g4-27   key topics and concerns that have           stakeholder responsibility
        been raised through stakeholder
        engagement
        report profile
g4-28   reporting period                            1.1.–31.12.2013

g4-29   date of most recent previous report         1 march 2013

g4-30   reporting cycle                             annual

g4-31   contact point for questions regarding       viestinta (at) op.fi
        the report or its contents
g4-32   gri content index                           gri content index




op-pohjola group

34                                                                              responsibility 2013


g4-33   policy and current practice with regard gri level check / external
        to seeking external assurance           assurance
        governance
        governance structure and composition
g4-34   governance structure, including         corporate governance
        committees                              principles
g4-35   division of responsibilities            corporate governance
                                                principles
g4-36   positions with responsibility           corporate governance
                                                principles
g4-37   processes for consultation with         corporate governance
        stakeholders                            principles
g4-38   members of the board of directors       corporate governance
                                                principles
g4-39   status of the chair of the highest      corporate governance
        governance body                         principles
g4-40   election of the board of directors      corporate governance
                                                principles
g4-41   processes to ensure conflicts of interest corporate governance
        are avoided and managed                   principles
        highest governance body’s role in setting purpose, values, and
        strategy
g4-42   highest governance body’s role in       corporate governance
        setting purpose, values, and strategy   principles
        highest governance body’s competencies and performance evaluation
g4-43   highest governance body’s collective    corporate governance
        knowledge                               principles
g4-44   evaluation of the highest governance    corporate governance
        body’s performance                      principles
        highest governance body’s role in
        risk management
g4-45   highest governance body’s role in the risk management
        identification and management of risk
g4-46   highest governance body’s role in       risk management
        reviewing the effectiveness of the
        organization’s risk management
g4-47   frequency of risk reviews               risk management

        board’s role in csr reporting
g4-48   highest committee or position that      gri reporting principles
        formally reviews and approves the
        organization’s sustainability report
        highest governance body’s role in
        evaluating economic, environmental
        and social performance
g4-49   process for communicating critical      risk management
        concerns
g4-50   nature and total number of critical     risk management
        concerns that were communicated
        remuneration and incentives
g4-51   remuneration policies for the highest   remuneration policies for the
        governance body and senior              highest governance body and
        executives                              senior executives
g4-52   incentive schemes                       incentive schemes

g4-53   how stakeholders’ views are sought      how stakeholders’ views are
        and taken into account                  sought and taken into account




op-pohjola group

35                                                                                                       responsibility 2013


g4-54   ratio of the annual total compensation gri performance indicators
        for the organization’s highest-paid
        individual and the median for all
        employees
g4-55   percentage increase in total               gri performance indicators
        compensation for the organization’s
        highest-paid individual and the median
        for all employees
        business ethics
g4-56   ethics and integrity                       op-pohjola group mission and
                                                   strategy
                                                   code of business ethics
g4-57   internal and external mechanisms for       code of business ethics
        seeking advice on ethical and lawful
        behaviour
g4-58   internal and external mechanisms for       code of business ethics
        reporting concerns about unethical or
        unlawful behaviour
                                                   gri indicators: social responsibility, society
        disclosures on management approach
        generic disclosures on management          management of corporate
        approach (dma)                             social responsibility
        aspect-specific disclosures on management approach
        product and service impact
fs1     policies with specific environmental and responsible products and
        social components applied to business services
        lines
fs2     procedures for assessing and screening responsible products and
        environmental and social risks in      services
        business lines
fs3     processes for monitoring clients’          responsible products and
        implementation of and compliance with      services
        environmental and social requirements
        included in agreements or transactions
fs4     process(es) for improving staff         ethical business operations
        competency to implement the
        environmental and social policies and
        procedures as applied to business lines
fs5     interactions with                        responsible products and
        clients/investees/business partners      services
        regarding environmental and social risks
        and opportunities
        product and service labelling
fs15    policies for the fair design and sale of   product responsibility
        financial products and services
                                                   responsible marketing
        operational kpis
        product and service impact
        aspect: product portfolio                  identified material aspect
fs6     percentage of the portfolio for business responsible products and
        lines by specific region, size (e.g.     services
        micro/sme/large) and by sector
                                                   product portfolio
fs7     monetary value of products and services responsible products and                            examples of products
        designed to deliver a specific social   services                                            and services
        benefit for each business line broken                                                       delivering social
        down by purpose                                                                             benefit.
                                                   product portfolio




op-pohjola group

36                                                                                                        responsibility 2013


fs8      monetary value of products and services responsible products and
         designed to deliver a specific          services
         environmental benefit for each business
         line broken down by purpose
                                                    product portfolio
         aspect: auditing                           identified material aspect
fs9      coverage and frequency of audits to     auditing
         assess implementation of environmental
         and social policies and risk assessment
         procedures
         aspect: active ownership                   identified material aspect
fs10     percentage and number of companies         responsible investment
         held in the institution’s portfolio with
         which the reporting organization has
         interacted on environmental or social
         issue
fs11     percentage of assets subject to positive responsible investment
         and negative environmental or social
         screening
fs12     voting policy(ies) applied to             responsible investment
         environmental or social issues for shares
         over which the reporting organization
         holds the right to vote or advises on
         voting
         economic responsibility
         aspect: economic performance               identified material aspect
g4-ec1 direct economic value generated and          economic impacts
       distributed
         + fsss: value generated by the organization’s community investment programs and breakdown
         of community investment by theme
g4-ec2 financial implications and other risks       economic impacts
       and opportunities for the organization’s
       activities due to climate change
g4-ec3 coverage of the organization’s defined       economic impacts
       benefit plan obligations
                                                    financial statements, note 39
g4-ec4 financial assistance received from the       economic impacts
       government
         aspect: indirect economic impacts          identified material aspect
g4-ec7 development and impact of               local projects                                        local projects,
       infrastructure investments and service                                                        investments in an
       provided primarily for public benefit                                                         active finnish
       through commercial, in-kind of pro-bono                                                       payment traffic
       engagement                                                                                    system.
g4-ec8 understanding and describing significant economic impacts
       indirect economic impacts, including the
       extent of impacts
         aspect: procurement practices              identified material aspect
g4-ec9 proportion of spending on local suppliers supply chain
       at significant locations of operation
         environmental responsibility
         aspect: energy                             identified material aspect
g4-en3                                              energy consumption
         energy consumption within the
         organization
g4-en4 energy consumption outside of the            data not collected
       organization
g4-en5 energy intensity                             energy intensity

g4-en6 reduction of energy consumption              carbon footprint, greenhouse
                                                    gas emissions intensity and
                                                    reduction measures


op-pohjola group

37                                                                                               responsibility 2013

g4-en7 reductions in the energy requirements      not reported, because the
       of sold products and services              figure is not applicable to op-
                                                  pohjola’s operations
        aspect: emissions                         identified material aspect
g4-     direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope carbon footprint, greenhouse
en15    1)                                     gas emissions intensity and
                                               reduction measures
        + fsss: greenhouse gas emissions relating to business travel and courier services
g4-     indirect greenhouse gas emissions         carbon footprint, greenhouse
en16    (scope 2)                                 gas emissions intensity and
                                                  reduction measures
g4-     other indirect greenhouse gas emissions carbon footprint, greenhouse
en17    (scope 3)                               gas emissions intensity and
                                                reduction measures
g4-     greenhouse gas emissions intensity        carbon footprint, greenhouse
en18                                              gas emissions intensity and
                                                  reduction measures
g4-     reduction of greenhouse gas emissions carbon footprint, greenhouse
en19                                          gas emissions intensity and
                                              reduction measures
g4-     emissions of ozone-depleting              not reported, because the
en20    substances                                figure is not applicable to op-
                                                  pohjola’s operations
g4-     nitrogen oxide (nox), sulphur oxide       not reported, because the
en21    (sox) and other significant air emissions figure is not applicable to op-
                                                  pohjola’s operations
        aspect: products and services             identified material aspect
g4-     extent of impact mitigation of            development of e-services
en27    environmental impacts of products and
        services
g4-     percentage of reclaimed products and      not reported, because the
en28    their packaging materials for each        figure is not applicable to op-
        product category                          pohjola’s operations
        aspect: supplier environmental            identified material aspect
        assessment
g4-     percentage of new suppliers that were     supply chain                              included in risk
en32    screened using environmental criteria                                               assessments in
                                                                                            supplier management
                                                                                            and procurement
                                                                                            agreements, when
                                                                                            necessary.
g4-     significant actual and potential negative supply chain                              included in risk
en33    environmental impacts in the supply                                                 assessments in
        chain and actions taken                                                             supplier management
                                                                                            and procurement
                                                                                            agreements, when
                                                                                            necessary.
        social responsibility
        labour practices and decent work
        aspect: employment                        identified material aspect
g4-la1 total number and rates of new employee personnel structure                           personnel structure,
       hires and employee turnover by age                                                   turnover is not
       group, gender and region                                                             reported for the period
                                                                                            by gender, age or
                                                                                            region due to
                                                                                            incomplete data
                                                                                            available.
g4-la2 benefits provided to full-time employees gri performance indicators
       that are not provided to temporary or
       part-time employees, by significant
       locations of operation
g4-la3 return to work and retention rates after gri performance indicators
       parental leave, by gender
        aspect: labour/management                 identified material aspect
        relations


op-pohjola group

38                                                                                      responsibility 2013

g4-la4 minimum notice periods regarding          labour/management relations
       operational changes, including whether
       these are specified in collective
       agreements
        aspect: occupational health and          identified material aspect
        safety
g4-la5 percentage of total workforce            gri performance indicators
       represented in formal joint management–
       worker health and safety committees that
       help monitor and advise on occupational
       health and safety programs
g4-la6 type of injury and rates of injury,    gri performance indicators          the report presents
       occupational diseases, lost days, and                                      the relative proportion
       absenteeism, and total number of work-                                     of sick days to regular
       related fatalities, by region and by                                       annual working time in
       gender                                                                     finland. other g4-la6
                                                                                  performance figures
                                                                                  were not collected.
g4-la7 workers with high incidence or high risk op-pohjola group’s business
       of diseases related to their occupation  does not include positions with
                                                a recognised high incidence or
                                                risk of specific diseases.
g4-la8 health and safety topics covered in       health and safety topics
       formal agreements with trade unions       covered in formal agreements
                                                 with trade unions
        aspect: education                        identified material aspect
g4-la9 average hours of training per year per    gri performance indicators       training expenses
       employee by gender, and by employee                                        relative to total wage
       category                                                                   sum in finland.
                                                                                  specific g4-la9
                                                                                  performance figures
                                                                                  were not collected.
g4-     programs for skills management and       competence development
la10    lifelong learning that support the
        continued employability of employees
        and assist them in managing career
        endings
g4-     percentage of employees receiving     gri performance indicators
la11    regular performance and career
        development reviews, by gender and by
        employee category
        aspect: diversity and equal              identified material aspect
        opportunity
g4-     composition of governance bodies and     personnel structure
la12    breakdown of employees per employee
        category according to gender, age
        group, minority group membership, and
        other indicators of diversity
        aspect: equal remuneration for           identified material aspect
        women and men
g4-     ratio of basic salary and remuneration remuneration                       the ratio women’s
la13    of women to men by employee category,                                     wages to men’s wages
        by significant locations of operation                                     under collective
                                                                                  bargaining
                                                                                  agreements in finance
                                                                                  and insurance sectors
                                                                                  was calculated
                                                                                  according to g4
                                                                                  specifications. the
                                                                                  information was not
                                                                                  disclosed.
        aspect: supplier assessment for          identified material aspect
        labour practices
g4-     percentage of new suppliers that were supply chain                        included in risk
la14    screened using labour practices criteria                                  assessments in
                                                                                  supplier management
                                                                                  and procurement
                                                                                  agreements, when
                                                                                  necessary.



op-pohjola group

39                                                                                        responsibility 2013

g4-      significant actual and potential negative supply chain                      included in risk
la15     impacts for labour practices in the supply                                  assessments in
         chain and actions taken                                                     supplier management
                                                                                     and procurement
                                                                                     agreements, when
                                                                                     necessary.
         aspect: labour practices grievance identified material aspect
         mechanisms
g4-      number of grievances about labour        no cases in 2013
la16     practices filed, addressed, and resolved
         through formal grievance mechanisms
         human rights
         aspect: non-discrimination                identified material aspect
g4-hr3 total number of incidents of                one allegation inspected in
       discrimination and corrective actions       2013
       taken
         aspect: supplier human rights             identified material aspect
         assessment
g4-      percentage of new suppliers that were     supply chain                      included in risk
hr10     screened using human rights criteria                                        assessments in
                                                                                     supplier management
                                                                                     and procurement
                                                                                     agreements, when
                                                                                     necessary.
g4-      significant actual and potential negative supply chain                      included in risk
hr11     human rights impacts in the supply chain                                    assessments in
         and actions taken                                                           supplier management
                                                                                     and procurement
                                                                                     agreements, when
                                                                                     necessary.
         aspect: human rights grievance            identified material aspect
         mechanisms
g4-      number of grievances about human          no cases in 2013
hr12     rights filed, addressed, and resolved
         through formal grievance mechanisms
         society
         aspect: local communities                 identified material aspect
g4-so1 percentage of operations with               not reported because the figure
       implemented local community                 is not applicable to op-
       engagement, impact assessments, and         pohjola’s operations
       development programs
g4-so2 operations with significant actual or       not reported because the figure
       potential negative impacts on local         is not applicable to op-
       communities                                 pohjola’s operations
fs13     access points in low-populated or         economic impacts
         economically disadvantaged areas by
         type
fs14     initiatives to improve access to financial responsible products and
         services for disadvantaged people          services
         aspect: anti-corruption                   identified material aspect
g4-so3 total number and percentage of           society
       operations assessed for risks related to
       corruption and the significant risks
       identified
g4-so4 communication and training on anti-         society                           training on prevention
       corruption policies and procedures                                            of misbehaviour.
                                                                                     training on code of
                                                                                     business ethics.
g4-so5 confirmed incidents of corruption and       society
       actions taken
         aspect: public policy                     identified material aspect
g4-so6 total value of political contributions by   society
       country and recipient/beneficiary
         aspect: anti-competitive behaviour identified material aspect


op-pohjola group

40                                                                                         responsibility 2013

g4-so7 total number of legal actions for anti-      no cases in 2013.
       competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and
       monopoly practices and their outcomes
        aspect: compliance                          identified material aspect
g4-so8 monetary value of significant fines and society
       total number of non-monetary sanctions
       for non-compliance with laws and
       regulations
        aspect: supplier assessment for             identified material aspect
        impacts on society
g4-so9 percentage of new suppliers that were        supply chain                      included in risk
       screened using criteria for impacts on                                         assessments in
       society                                                                        supplier management
                                                                                      and procurement
                                                                                      agreements, when
                                                                                      necessary.
g4-     significant actual and potential negative supply chain                        included in risk
so10    impacts on society in the supply chain                                        assessments in
        and actions taken                                                             supplier management
                                                                                      and procurement
                                                                                      agreements, when
                                                                                      necessary.
        aspect: grievance mechanisms for            identified material aspect
        impacts on society
g4-     number of grievances about impacts on no cases in 2013
so11    society filed, addressed, and resolved
        through formal grievance mechanisms
        product responsibility
        aspect: product and service                 identified material aspect
        labelling
g4-pr3 type of product and service information product responsibility
       required by the organization’s
       procedures for product and service
       information and labelling, and
       percentage of significant products and
       service categories subject to such
       information requirements
g4-pr4 total number of incidents of non-          no cases in 2013
       compliance with regulations and
       voluntary codes concerning product and
       service information and labelling, by type
       of outcomes
g4-pr5 results of surveys measuring customer customer satisfaction
       satisfaction
fs16    initiatives to enhance financial literacy by financial literacy
        type of beneficiary
        aspect: marketing communications identified material aspect
g4-pr6 sale of banned or disputed products          not reported because the figure
                                                    is not applicable to op-
                                                    pohjola’s operations. the
                                                    indirect impacts of operations
                                                    are included in the business
                                                    process descriptions.
g4-pr7 total number of incidents of non-            no cases in 2013
       compliance with regulations and
       voluntary codes concerning marketing
       communications, including advertising,
       promotion, and sponsorship, by type of
       outcomes
        aspect: customer privacy                    identified material aspect
g4-pr8 total number of substantiated           product responsibility
       complaints regarding breaches of
       customer privacy and losses of customer
       data




op-pohjola group

41                                                                                                           responsibility 2013


         aspect: compliance                         identified material aspect
g4-pr9 monetary value of significant fines for  no cases in 2013
       non-compliance with laws and
       regulations concerning the provision and
       use of products and services




global compact reporting
human rights                                                                             additional information
principle 1: businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally
proclaimed human rights                                                                  executive chairman’s csr statement

                                                                                         code of business ethics
                                                                                         supply chain
principle 2: businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses   executive chairman’s csr statement
                                                                                         code of business ethics
                                                                                         supply chain
labour
principle 3: businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective       executive chairman’s csr statement
recognition of the right to collective bargaining
                                                                                         code of business ethics
                                                                                         labour/management relations
                                                                                         supply chain
principle 4: businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and
compulsory labour                                                                        executive chairman’s csr statement

                                                                                         code of business ethics
                                                                                         supply chain
principle 5: businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour            executive chairman’s csr statement
                                                                                         code of business ethics
                                                                                         supply chain
principle 6: businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of    executive chairman’s csr statement
employment and occupation
                                                                                         code of business ethics
                                                                                         supply chain
                                                                                         gri index g4-hr3
environment
principle 7: businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental         executive chairman’s csr statement
challenges
                                                                                         risk management
principle 8: businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental
responsibility                                                                           executive chairman’s csr statement

                                                                                         environmental responsibility
                                                                                         responsible products and services
                                                                                         supply chain
principle 9: businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of                executive chairman’s csr statement
environmentally friendly technologies
                                                                                         environmental responsibility
                                                                                         responsible products and services
                                                                                         supply chain




op-pohjola group

42                                                                                                             responsibility 2013


anti-corruption
principle 10: businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion executive chairman’s csr statement
and bribery
                                                                                          code of business ethics
                                                                                          society




op-pohjola group

43                                                                                                    responsibility 2013




gri performance indicators
                                                                                         2011      2012            2013
ec3 coverage of defined benefit pension plan in excess of obligations (eur
mill.)¹                                                                                    71         -6              -4
ec6 percentage of local suppliers                                                          97        98              99
g4-10 number of company employees                                                       13,229    13,290         11,983
     permanently employed                                                               12,213    12,468         11,241
     employed for fixed term                                                             1,016      822             742
g4-10 number of employees
     full-time                                                                          12,149    12,176         11,047
     part-time                                                                           1,080     1,114            936
g4-11 percentage of total employees covered bycollective bargaining agreements              ..      92%            91%
g4-54 difference between highest and median annual earnings (only in finland)               ..        ..            22*
g4-55 change in highest and median annual earnings (only in finland)                        ..        ..         0.9%*
g4-la1 new employee hires                                                                   ..        ..         1,445*
g4-la1 terminated work relationships                                                                             2,720*
g4-la1 terminated permanent work relationships                                              ..        ..         1,643*
g4-la1 turnover of permanent employees                                                     6.4       6.1           9.8**
g4-la3 return to work rate after parental leave (only in finland)                           ..        ..          97%*
g4-la3 retention rate after parental leave (only in finland)                                ..        ..          94%*
g4-la5 percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–
worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational
health and safety programs                                                                  ..        ..          88%*
g4-la6 percentage of sick days of regular working hours (only in finland)                  3.5       3.6             3.6
g4-la9 percentage of training expenses of the payroll bill (only in finland)               2.5       2.5             2.0
g4-la11 percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career
development reviews                                                                        90*       87              88
g4-la12 breakdown of employees by gender
     male                                                                                  27        27              26
     female                                                                                73        73              74
g4-la12 breakdown of employees by age group
     under 30 years                                                                       17%       16%            15%
     30–39 years                                                                          21%       25%            27%
     40–49 years                                                                          25%       23%            21%
     over 49 years                                                                        37%       36%            37%
g4-la12 breakdown of employees by employee category
     management                                                                            2%        4%             4%
     supervisors                                                                          11%       10%            10%
     experts                                                                              27%       30%            28%
     employees                                                                            60%       56%            58%
g4-la12 average age of staff                                                              43.0      43.1           43.2
en3 energy consumption (gj)²                                                           162,229   205,900       179,483
en15 and 16 greenhouse gas emissions (tons)                                             46,369    41,519         42,924


¹ op-pohjola group's financial statement, note 39, provisions and other liabilities.




op-pohjola group

44                                                                                                           responsibility 2013

² contains: electricity consumed by office premises in op-pohjola group central cooperative consolidated's use, and by data
centres within the haaga and teollisuuskatu premises, and heating energy consumed by office premises in op-pohjola group
central cooperative consolidated's use.



* these indicators have not been reported before 2013, so no comparison data is available.

** excluding business transfers




op-pohjola group

45                                                                                                                     responsibility 2013




management approaches
at op-pohjola, corporate social responsibility management takes place as part of ordinary operational management. the purpose of
op-pohjola group’s csr programme is to direct and coordinate actions related to csr and to collect results on the main areas of csr
at the group level.

the csr aspects identified as material for op-pohjola are described in the materiality assessment and the gri content index. op-
pohjola’s operations, products, services and business relations involve many significant economic, social and environmental impacts.
op-pohjola group as a whole has major direct and indirect economic impacts on both the finnish society as a whole, and on local
households.

the main environmental impacts caused by op-pohjola arise from energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and the use of
products and services. with responsible products and services, op-pohjola can influence environmental impacts arising outside of the
scope of its own operations, which are often significantly larger than those caused directly by the group. the environmental impacts of
companies that supply the group with goods and services may also be significant, and this is why environmental requirements set for
suppliers play an important role in csr management.

with regard to social responsibility, some of the major impacts are related to personnel and working conditions, because op-pohjola is
a large employer. the group’s human resource management practices cover all the csr aspects identified as material. op-pohjola’s
own operations do not involve any direct human rights risks or impacts of significance. indirectly, such impacts may arise from the
supply chain or from the operations of investees and financed parties. the major social impacts are related to active fighting of
financial crime and abuses, including corruption, and removal of anti-competitive behaviour. the main csr impact of op-pohjola’s
products and services is related to the confidentiality of customer data and to data security. product and service information and
marketing practices may also comprise significant social impacts.

op-pohjola group’s management approaches mostly cover actions related to csr management. one of the advantages of this
integrated approach is that csr issues are linked to existing management processes. the management approaches of corporate social
responsibility in op-pohjola group comprise the following elements:
●    op-pohjola's csr policies
●    un global compact principles
●    code of business ethics
●    op-pohjola's corporate social responsibility programme

the main management approaches are defined in op-pohjola’s corporate governance principles. op-pohjola’s operations are guided
by good banking and insurance practices. we comply with laws, standards and regulations and adhere to the principles of honest and
fair operations everywhere. the operational risk and compliance function oversees risks and compliance related to csr.

op-pohjola’s products and services may lead to economic, social and environmental impacts. at op-pohjola group, corporate financing
is guided by ethical principles and guidelines for lending. op fund management company ltd and pohjola asset management have
signed the un principles for responsible investment.

in its own operations, op-pohjola develops the management of significant csr aspects by adopting green office systems and following
leed requirements.

impacts related to personnel and working conditions are led through strategic hr alignments an op-pohjola’s hr policy. some of the
practical management tools are op-pohjola’s principles of good management, the remuneration system and policy, a common equal
opportunities framework plan, and the op academy.

op-pohjola is committed to responsible marketing and advertising. the group complies with marketing legislation and the self-
regulation guidelines of international organisations, including those of the international chamber of commerce (icc). it also adheres to
the marketing guidelines of the finnish consumer agency. continuous training is provided to enhance employees’ professional
expertise, giving a wide range of training opportunities in various areas of banking and insurance, including insider regulations, ethics,
data security and legislation.




op-pohjola group

46                                                                                                                      responsibility 2013




gri aspects in the financial sector
the gri financial services sector supplement specifies and provides guidance on special issues related to the sustainability reporting
of banks and insurance companies, including a responsible product and service portfolio and responsible investment and ownership.
with regard to the product and service portfolio, responsibility refers to the reporting organisation’s activities and initiatives aimed at
developing and marketing products and services that meet responsibility criteria.

particular attention is paid to products and services that generate benefits related to social responsibility or environmental impacts,
and thereby reduce any negative economic, social or environmental impacts caused by the value chain. a further objective is to
describe the share of such products and services in the existing product and service portfolio, as well as how the organisation
promotes new sustainable product innovations in the financial sector.



responsible products and services
responsible products and services are one of the focus areas of op-pohjola group’s corporate social responsibility, and responsibility is
therefore a critical aspect of product and service development. many financial services, such as insurance or financial or risk
management tools, are responsible in their very nature. additionally op-pohjola actively offers electronic products and services which
are beneficial in terms of efficiency and environment. responsibility is also an indivisible part of the group’s investment operations.

product portfolio
percentage of the portfolio for business lines by sector (fs6)
the group’s product portfolio is composed of various financial sector products and services. the distribution of the product portfolio is
shown in detail in note59 (segment reporting) to the consolidated financial statements.

monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by
purpose (fs7)
op-pohjola actively offers young first-time property buyers state-subsidised housing loans (asp) with favourable terms and conditions.
these asp loans help young people in buying their first home and at the same time teach them about responsible financial
management and target-oriented savings. in 2013, a total of 29,144 new asp accounts were opened in finland, of which op-pohjola
accounted for 46 per cent.

pohjola bank has in its use eur 170 million in funding from the council of europe development bank (ceb), which is mostly intended
for social housing provision.

total value of products designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit (fs8)
pohjola bank has a loan agreement with the nordic investment bank (nib) whose purpose is to transmit funding to corporate and ngo
customers of pohjola bank for investments into specified initiatives that increase energy efficiency and reduce negative environmental
impacts. the credit facility totals eur 30 million.

in june 2013, the group signed a deal with the european investment bank for a eur 100 million loan programme, within whose scope
funding may be granted on special terms to smes in relation to functions such as waste management, energy production, health care
services or waterworks.

auditing
coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social policies and risk assessment
procedures (fs9)
op-pohjola group develops its csr audit methods as part of its overall management approaches. because csr is integrated into daily
operations, the fulfilment of environmental and social responsibility policies and related risks are assessed within ordinary business
processes. compliance with csr procedures is evaluated for instance when assessing credit risk, approving new products, business
models and systems, and monitoring business ethics. in line with our procurement guidelines, we require csr compliance with our
contractual partners. csr risks and compliance are assessed as a part of supplier risk assessment.

pohjola asset management’s portfolio managers regularly meet with the managements of finnish, european and russian investment
targets as part of their ordinary investment activities. typically meetings with finnish investees take place at least once a year, and
european and russian investees are also met with regularly. meetings with parties from other markets are less frequent. at the
meetings, regular discussions are conducted on the companies’ csr.



op-pohjola group

47                                                                                                                    responsibility 2013



responsible investment
percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organization has interacted
on environmental or social issue (fs10) and voting policies (fs12)
active ownership is an integral part of responsible investment. op fund management company exercises the voting rights of the
mutual funds it manages in accordance with the ownership policy approved by the company’s board of directors. the group does its
best to discuss grievances directly with the companies prior to agms, so that it will be possible to support the board’s proposal if it
comes to voting. pohjola asset management contributes to the practical implementation of op fund management company’s
ownership policy by actively participating in general meetings of finnish companies, in particular, under the authorisation of op fund
management company. in 2013 op fund management attended 46 annual general meetings or extraordinary general meeting.
additionally, representatives of op fund management were appointed to the nomination committees of 2 companies in 2013.

one of the most important ways for op-pohjola to obtain information on and assess the responsibility of companies to invest in, are
meetings with the companies’ executives. at year-end 2013, the op-funds managed by pohjola asset management contained shares
from 54 finnish listed companies. pohjola asset management discussed issues related to environmental and social responsibility with
19 per cent of these during the year.

pohjola asset management and op fund management also have different ways of influencing companies. if their investments include
companies with violations of international standards or other operations which are not responsible or in line with the investor’s long-
term interests, pohjola asset management and op fund management may encourage or pressure them to address the situation.

percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening (fs11)
positive screening
op fund management company and pohjola asset management encourage their investees and partners to operate responsibly and in
line with international standards. primarily, the most attractive investment targets in any fund are issuers whose operations are
irreproachable in relation to international ethical standards.

positive screening is particularly visible in the op climate and op clean water funds. the op climate fund portfolio includes
companies that will be in a good position when societies and businesses adapt their energy solutions and use of materials towards
lower-carbon alternatives. op clean water, in turn, invests in companies operating sustainably in the water resource management
field, especially within development of water-saving technology, pollution prevention and construction of reliable water infrastructures.
at the end of 2013, the total value of these funds was eur 160.3 million or 3.3 per cent of op fund management’s equity fund capital.




negative screening
pohjola asset management will not make active direct investments in companies that produce anti-personnel mines or cluster
weapons as banned by the ottawa (1997) and oslo (2012) treaties. companies that violate international standards may also be
removed from the lists of potential investment targets if they do not change their operations despite attempts to influence them.

in 2013, op fund management company and pohjola asset management initiated collaboration with the swedish company ges
investment service for the purposes of negative screening. ges investment service produces continuous analyses of the fulfilment of
international standards by investment targets, for use by investors. additionally, ges investment service checks all of pohjola asset
management and op fund management’s investments twice a year for any violations. this screening applies to all direct equity and
business loan investments managed by pohjola asset management, which at the year-end 2013 totalled eur 11.4 billion in value, i.e.
32 per cent of all the assets managed by pohjola asset management.




op-pohjola group

48                                                                                                                     responsibility 2013




economic responsibility
economic responsibility encompasses both the economic sustainability of operations and taking account of the wider economic impacts
on society and the company’s stakeholders. in the financial sector, economic responsibility is of key importance, since responsibility for
customers and the role of companies as capital and insurance providers are emphasised during difficult economic times.

in accordance with its mission, op-pohjola creates local, regional and national prosperity and stability. the group contributes to
regional vitality and builds long-term trust in local communities.

op-pohjola generates long-term financial prosperity for its stakeholders. direct economic effects on stakeholders are indicated in the
following table:

ec1 direct economic value generated and distributed to stakeholders
                                                                                                     2011           2012            2013
direct economic added value created (eur mill.)
a) income                                    customers                                              2,059           2,271          2,428
breakdown of economic value added
b) purchases                                 suppliers                                                547             575            639
c) personnel costs                           personnel                                                696             749            753
d) returns to owner-members                  owners                                                   176             192            193
e) income tax for the period                 government                                               107             149            133
f) donations and other community
investments                                  non-profit organisations                                    3              3               3
business development                                                                                  549             633            808


* income tax for the period includes income tax for the financial year. income tax in the income statement also includes changes in
deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised in future financial years.




economic impacts
economic impacts (g4-ec1, g4-ec8, fs13)
economic impacts are created by direct cash flows, such as bonus payments to customers, purchases from suppliers and service
providers, employee compensation, tax payments to the state and municipalities, and support for community activities. op-pohjola
group's goal is to offer its owner-members the financial sector’s best loyalty benefits. op-pohjola has finland’s largest network of
banking and non-life insurance services. this network seeks to ensure that customers have equal opportunities to carry out
transactions. the group’s cooperative banks and their offices across finland enable effective interaction with customers and the local
community. the group’s member banks had 485 branches at the end of 2013, as well as some 1,570 otto atms (shared between
finland’s banks) around the country.

the number of branches dropped by 35 during the year. primarily the group closed down less-used branches which were located
either close to another branch or in a sparsely populated area. the number of atms dropped by around 20. decisions to close down
atms are mostly based on usage statistics, but in order to guarantee the coverage of the network, no machines are closed down which
are located over 20 kilometres away from the next atm, regardless of their usage.

op-pohjola group is a significant purchaser of finnish goods and services. in 2013, finnish suppliers of goods and services accounted
for 99 per cent of the value of purchases made by the group’s centralised procurement. op-pohjola group aims to further develop its
purchasing policy by, for example, applying more detailed guidelines to the assessment of supplier and service provider responsibility.

op-pohjola group is a major employer in many municipalities and, consequently, a driver of the regions’ purchasing power. the
member banks are often some of the largest taxpayers in their local municipalities, and op-pohjola group as a whole is one of the
major taxpayers in finland. op-pohjola also paid eur 46 million in bank levy and eur 29.3 million in contribution to the deposit
guarantee fund.

op-pohjola group directs economic benefits towards non-profit organisations through support, donations and sponsorship.



op-pohjola group

49                                                                                                                   responsibility 2013

in 2013, op-pohjola decided to donate over eur 1 million to the construction of a new children’s hospital. also during the year, the
group donated the subscription fees attributable to the charity portions of the op clean water fund to the finnish association for
nature conservation, earmarking it for the rehabilitation of rivers in ostrobothnia. this sum totalled eur 6,000 in 2013. the estimated
number of hours spent on pro bono work in op-pohjola group in 2013 was 200.

economic impacts on stakeholders may also be indirect. such indirect impacts are created through contributions to local and regional
economic vitality, as well social contributions. examples of indirect economic impacts are:
●    employment (creation of new jobs, work placements, summer jobs, apprenticeship training);
●    procurement (purchases from local suppliers and service providers);
●    investments (properties, maintenance, local infrastructure and building projects);
●    financing (financing for start-ups, local financing, ethical lending criteria by sector);
●    tax payments (income tax, bank tax, local taxes, property taxes, other taxes).

risks and opportunities due to climate change (g4-ec2)
as a financial sector operator, op-pohjola and its products and services have a relatively minor impact on climate change.
environmental risks, on the other hand, including climate risks, can have direct impacts on op-pohjola’s operations, as well as indirect
impacts through effects on customers and stakeholders.

regulations aiming to combat climate change may raise the cost of energy consumption for both op-pohjola and for its
manufacturing-related customers, for whom energy prices can be a crucial element in terms of profitability and solvency. it also
increases pressure on op-pohjola to make energy savings in its own operations.

physical site risks related to increasingly common extreme weather phenomena are particularly significant for the insurance sector,
where increasing environmental risks form a part of the insurance choice and pricing models and the preventive consulting related to
site inspections. extreme weather is also an operational risk included in op-pohjola’s own continuity planning.

concerns related to climate change may pose reputation risks if any conflicts with climate change prevention efforts should be
identified in the operations of op-pohjola or even those of its partners or customers. on the other hand, the general improvement in
environmental awareness is bringing new business opportunities, for example in the form of investment products that emphasise
environmental responsibility, and diverse property insurances that provide cover from the increasingly common phenomenon of
flooding, when the government’s flood compensation ceases as of the beginning of 2014.

coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations (g4-ec3)
at op-pohjola group, retirement benefits are determined by pension legislation and op-pohjola group’s own pension plans. statutory
pension cover for op-pohjola’s employees is arranged through pension insurance taken out with op bank group pension fund or
insurance companies. a few companies within op-pohjola group have provided supplementary pension cover for their employees
through op bank group pension fund or an insurance company.

further information: financial statements, note 39

financial assistance received from the government (g4-ec4)
pohjola insurance received approximately eur 21,000 in de minimise subsidies from the centre for economic development, transport
and the environment for the purpose of labour recruitment training. op-pohjola’s telephone and web services also received around
eur 2,000 in grants from diverse educational institutions for the purpose of customer service personnel training.




op-pohjola group

50                                                                                                                  responsibility 2013




environmental responsibility
carbon footprint, greenhouse emissions intensity and reduction measures (g4-en6, g4-en15–19)
the operations of op-pohjola group have both direct and indirect environmental impacts. the group aims to reduce the environmental
impacts of its operations with regard to energy, waste and materials, and to systematically develop its environmental management
practices. additionally, op-pohjola is an indirect opinion leader in encouraging customers to take environmental impacts into account
when making financing, insurance and investment decisions, and in recommending the use of e-services and electronic documents.

during 2013, the energy efficiency, waste management and indoor air conditions of the vääksyntie 2 property in the vallila block were
improved in order to fulfil the requirements of leed certification. an energy inspection was carried out on the property, which
identified actions such as optimisation of hvac equipment and modernisation of lighting systems which would cause a saving of 508
gj in energy consumption or around eur 17,000 in costs and approx. 109 co2 tn in emissions. during the year, 184 gj of these
savings were already implemented (46 co2 tn).

new parts of the vallila block were connected to the district cooling network, which reduced annual air conditioning needs by around
11,681 gj compared to the previous year’s consumption. according to the emission factor of the electricity used in the vallila block in
2013, these savings are equivalent to 555 tn co2.

the use of video conferencing equipment spread quickly at op-pohjola in 2013. one-to-one instant messaging was by far the most
common tool, but more than 50,000 voice or video meetings between three or more people were also held, representing a sharp
growth during the year. the reduction of travel for meetings significantly improves work efficiency and reduces transport emissions.




op-pohjola group’s carbon footprint (scopes 1+2+3) in 2013 totalled approximately 42,924 tonnes carbon dioxide, i.e. 3.5 tonnes per
person. the greenhouse gas emissions of op-pohjola’s own operations (scope 1+2) totalled 35,003 co2e tonnes i.e. 2.9 tonnes per
person.

energy consumption (g4-en3), energy intensity (g4-en5)




the total electricity consumption of op-pohjola group’s biggest properties in helsinki (vääksyntie 2 and 4, elimäenkatu 5, elimäenkatu
15, lapinmäentie and hiomotie) was 169,971 gj in 2013 (199,174 gj in 2012). the energy intensity (i.e. total energy consumption
per person) was 38 gj. the change in electricity consumption was largely attributable to the vallila 2015 property development project,
in which old premises in the vallila block have been renovated or demolished to create new, more efficient buildings.


op-pohjola group

51                                                                                                                  responsibility 2013

op-pohjola pays attention to the indirect emissions from its operations, based on electricity and heating purchased for the offices and
data centres used by its large helsinki properties and the member banks.

the large helsinki properties are connected to the district heating network so their fuel management and energy production are the
responsibility of the power companies. indirect energy consumption in these properties totalled 546,097 gj. testing of a back-up
generator for the lapinmäentie property used around 1,200 litres of fuel.

an energy tracking system to be commissioned in 2014 will, if possible, also include a system for identifying and reporting on
consumption peaks.

other greenhouse emissions caused by indirect energy consumption (g4-en17)
out of the emissions listed in the ghg protocol’s scope 3 for calculating the carbon footprint, op-pohjola group takes into account
business travel, purchased transports and paper use. the group has instructions to be applied to business travel by personnel.
business travel caused emissions of 3,378 tn co2 in 2013 (2012: 3,880 tn co2). the group has made investments in video and online
conferencing technology to reduce business travel. its travel guidelines state that trains or buses must be favoured in travel within
finland. transports run or managed by op-pohjola group caused 12.8 tonnes (2012: 22.1 tn co2) and paper consumption 2,884
tonnes (2012: 3,304 t co2) of co2 emissions in 2013.




op-pohjola group

52                                                                                                                 responsibility 2013




social responsibility
employment
personnel structure (g4-la1, g4-la12)
the number of employees of op-pohjola group fell by 1,307 in 2013. at the year-end the group employed 11,983 persons (2012:
13,290). of these, 94 (94) per cent were in permanent employment, while 6 (6) per cent had temporary contracts. in finland, there
were 11,609 employees, in estonia 134, in latvia 118, in lithuania 120 and in russia two employees.

the turnover of permanent personnel excluding business transfers was 9.8 (6.1) per cent, a figure greatly influenced by the results of
the employee negotiations of autumn 2012 and the subsequent streamlining-related redundancies. additionally, 541 employees were
transferred from the group into the employ of partners as a consequence of business transfers.

op-pohjola wants to provide equal working opportunities for all employees. in 2013, 74 per cent (73) of the personnel were women
and 26 (27) per cent were men. the average age at the end of 2013 was 43.2 years (43.1). the average age of those retiring in 2013
was 61.6 (61.5), and they had been in the group’s service for an average of 34.5 (34.0)* years.

* the comparative figure for 2012 was revised due to an adjustment of the calculation method.




op-pohjola group

53                 responsibility 2013




op-pohjola group

54                                                                                                                  responsibility 2013




labour/management relations (g4-la4, g4-11)
op-pohjola abides by local legislation in all its operations. in finland, the main regulations concerning corporate reorganisations are
found in the act on co-operation within undertakings. according to the act, in cases of business transfer, staff representatives must
be given one week’s notice. written proposals for personnel negotiations must be submitted to staff representatives five days prior to
the start of negotiations.

in finland, 94 percent (92) of op-pohjola personnel are covered by universally binding collective labour agreements. no binding
collective agreements exist in the sector in the baltic region.

remuneration
remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives (g4-51)
the remuneration of the executive board consists of a fixed monthly salary, a variable salary portion and benefits. op-pohjola group’s
scheme for variable remuneration comprises short-term company-specific incentives and long-term group-wide incentives. the long-
term scheme for the entire op-pohjola group consists of a management incentive scheme and a personnel fund for other staff.

the management incentive scheme consists of consecutive three-year performance periods, the first of which was 2011–13. those




op-pohjola group

55                                                                                                                   responsibility 2013

the management incentive scheme consists of consecutive three-year performance periods, the first of which was 2011–13. those
persons included in the scheme will be entitled to receive a certain number of pohjola bank plc series a shares, if op-pohjola group
reaches the strategy-based targets set for the respective performance period. the bonus based on the scheme will be paid out to the
beneficiary in terms of shares and cash and in three instalments in 2015–2017 after the performance period, provided that the
group’s capital adequacy is higher than the internal minimum requirements on the payout date. bonus payout includes conditions
relating to the duration of employment or executive contracts.

op-pohjola group central cooperative’s supervisory board shall decide on salaries and other emoluments and benefits payable to op-
pohjola group’s executive chairman, who also acts as op-pohjola group central cooperative’s ceo, and to other members and deputy
member of op-pohjola group central cooperative’s executive board and to the chief audit executive. a written executive contract,
approved by the supervisory board, stipulates the terms and conditions governing each executive board member’s, deputy member’s
and the chief audit executive’s employment.

op-pohjola group’s executive chairman and ceo received eur 779,659 in salary, eur 27,856 in fringe benefits and eur 669,761 in
bonuses under short-term and long-term schemes, i.e. a total of eur 1,477,276. other executive board members, deputy member
and the chief audit executive received eur 2,089,277 in salary, eur 94,462 in fringe benefits and eur 1,178,749 in bonuses under
the short-term and long-term schemes, i.e. a total of eur 3,362,488.

salaries and bonuses include the amount of the performance-based bonuses for 2011 and 2012 and paid in 2013. a total of eur
220,498 of the performance-based bonuses earned by the executive chairman and executive board members in 2012 has been
deferred to be paid in three instalments in 2014–2016. this deferment is based on the procedures in accordance with decree
(1372/2010) of the ministry of finance on remuneration schemes in credit institutions and investment firms (valtiovarainministeriön
asetus luottolaitosten ja sijoituspalveluyritysten palkitsemisjärjestelmistä). a description of the procedures can be found in note 57
“variable remuneration” to op-pohjola group’s ifrs financial statements 2013.

the executive chairman and ceo’s retirement age is 62. the other board members, deputy member and the chief audit executive
retire at 63. pension benefits are determined in accordance with pension laws and op-pohjola group’s own pension plans.

the executive chairman and ceo is covered by op bank group pension foundation’s supplementary pension scheme. pension accrued
under the supplementary pension scheme may begin to be paid out as a paid-up pension before the old-age pension, if employment
with op-pohjola group terminates.

supplementary pension for the other executive board member, deputy member and the chief audit executive (8 persons) have been
arranged through op life assurance company ltd. in addition, one executive board member is covered by op bank group pension
foundation’s supplementary pension scheme.

further information: personnel and remuneration

incentive schemes (g4-52)
remuneration and rewards at op-pohjola group follow the group’s remuneration principles. these principles are posted on the
group’s intranet and are therefore available to all personnel. remuneration systems based on the principles are in place to support the
fulfilment of the group’s strategy, taking into account the special nature of its areas of operation. op-pohjola sets great store by the
equality and transparency of its remuneration systems, and employees and employee representatives are actively engaged in the
development of practices.

there are joint objectives for long-term remuneration of executive management and personnel. short-term remuneration is decided
on within each company, but the terms of the system are the same, and known to all employees. op-pohjola has taken significant
steps towards ensuring the uniformity of all its remuneration systems group-wide. remuneration systems must be in line with proper,
effective risk management, and payment of rewards should be based on performance figures, capital adequacy and any changes in risk
exposure. the tightened regulations in the financial sector also emphasise the importance of linking remuneration to risk
management, in addition to engaging and incentivising personnel.

when remuneration schemes are being planned, the hr management of the parent company in the central cooperative consolidated
formulates policies, directions and principles for used in decision-making. new remuneration systems and changes to existing systems,
principles or alignments are handled by the remuneration committee in question and presented for decision-making to the appropriate
board of directors. once the principles and policies have been decided on, hr services is in charge of developing and implementing the
system. the use of external consultants is limited and does not apply to decision-making – only, for example, to interpreting
regulations. the use of consultants is specified when presenting policies, alignments or principles for decision-making.




op-pohjola group

56                                                                                                                     responsibility 2013


how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account (g4-53)

op-pohjola group’s remuneration principles and policies are discussed by the supervisory board of op-pohjola group central
cooperative or, depending on the issue, by the chairs of the supervisory board or an appropriate remuneration committee, examining
the application and the systems and evaluating their suitability. for systems applying to the whole group, the decisions are made by
the supervisory board or op-pohjola group remuneration committee. the group remuneration committee and the supervisory
board’s remuneration committee consist either entirely or partly of owner-members and their compositions are diverse, so the views
of stakeholders are extensively reflected in the work of the committees and the board. within the member banks, remuneration-
related decisions are ultimately made by the board of directors, which also consists of owner-members.

benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant
locations of operation (g4-la2)
the fringe benefits of the central cooperative are the same for all personnel, regardless of their employment contract, meaning that
temporary and/or part-time personnel are offered the same benefits as full-time and/or permanent personnel. the member banks
decide independently on the benefits they offer, while following the benefit model provided by the central cooperative to a reasonable
degree.

health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions (g4-la8)
op-pohjola is a unionised employer. the group companies apply three collective labour agreements: the collective agreement for the
finance industry in banking operations, the collective agreement for the insurance industry in insurance operations, and the collective
agreement for the medical services industry at omasairaala. as a large-scale financial sector employer, op-pohjola plays a major role
in developing the industry. the collective agreements for the finance and insurance industries were updated based on negotiations that
ended on 25 october 2013. both negotiations led to an agreement to initiate a review of a potential finance sector labour market
project. this project, chaired by a representative of op-pohjola group, has as its aim increasing occupational well-being among
financial sector personnel while improving productivity and competitiveness in the sector.

ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation (g4-
la13)
equal treatment is a key principle in op-pohjola's personnel administration and salary policy. op-pohjola seeks to pay the same salary
for the same jobs.

education
competence development (g4-la10)
competence development is one of the strategic areas of focus for op-pohjola group, and personnel are given good opportunities for
training and development. future competence needs are explored during annual planning. competence management is supported
through development plans drawn up during performance reviews. the op academy supports the fulfilment of the strategy by offering
a comprehensive selection of training events for people in various positions.

as a major employer in the financial sector, op-pohjola offers its employees ample opportunities to develop their skills by transferring
from one position to another. other development techniques, such as mentoring and coaching, are also used in competence
development, and attention is paid to target-oriented on-the-job learning.

employees are encouraged to make use of the diverse competence development methods available in the group. the strategy demands
that support be provided for internal personnel mobility in future. employee performance reviews also play an important role in
training and education.

performance reviews (g4-la11)
performance and career development reviews are conducted with all op-pohjola group employees in finland and overseas.



society
total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified (g4-
so3)
the organisations of op-pohjola group apply a guideline entitled procedures for managing operational risk. the central cooperative
formulates a risk analysis plan indicating which entities are to be analysed. if necessary, the entities to be analysed can be agreed with
the group’s member organisations. in 2013, the group included nearly 300 entities for analysis.

these entities update their operational risk analyses annually based on the procedural guidelines. the risk analyses are based on the




op-pohjola group

57                                                                                                                       responsibility 2013

these entities update their operational risk analyses annually based on the procedural guidelines. the risk analyses are based on the
organisations’ self-evaluations concerning operational risks and their management. in line with the analysis process, each organisation
identifies and evaluates the most important risks affecting its operations. to assist in identification, the group has a shared risk library
which lists diverse risks subdivided into seven risk categories. the internal abuse category includes the risk giving and receiving
bribes.

bribery was only recognised as a material operational risk in the pohjola group’s banking operations within the st. petersburg
delegation of the international partnerships organisation.

in line with the process, the recognised risks are analysed for typical effect, likelihood, maximum effect and effect on reputation.
controls, i.e. various ways of reducing the likelihood of realisation and mitigating the effects of the risk, are also evaluated. finally the
overall risk level is determined, taking into account the aforementioned analyses and controls. in op-pohjola group as a whole, more
than 3,000 risks were identified of which less than one per cent were deemed critical in terms of overall risk level. most of these risks
were related to the continuity of operations.

communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures (g4-so4)
the guideline for handling conflicts of interest in op-pohjola group is intended to prevent cases of corruption. all of the group’s
member organisations are responsible for applying the guidelines internally. each and every executive and employee within the
institutions must know the guidelines. every manager is in charge of supervising compliance with the guidelines, with the ceo and
board of each organisation having ultimate responsibility. the guidelines concerning conflicts of interests must be handled by each
organisation and its employees on a regular basis, and whenever a new person receives job orientation. a compulsory online course for
all employees of the group was implemented to ensure familiarisation with the guidelines at all levels.

confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken (g4-so5)
in 2013, two cases were resolved in which persons involved in the administration of an op bank were accused of offences taking place
outside the bank. in one of the cases the person in question resigned from the board of the bank, while the other person was deemed
innocent by verdict of the court of appeal.

total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary (g4-so6)
the code of business ethics unequivocally states that op-pohjola group does not support political parties or organisation, and that the
group will not participate in funding individual candidates’ campaigns.

monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and
regulations (g4-so8)
one case: a corporate fine of eur 15,000 and a personal fine of eur 5,320. an entrepreneur subcontracted for the demolition of a
liquidation property neglected to fulfil statutory waste disposal duties. as the parties commissioning the work, the bank and the ceo of
the bank were sentenced to pay fines for environmental damages. the verdict is not yet valid by law.



product responsibility
type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and
labelling, and percentage of significant products and service categories subject to such information requirements (g4-pr3)
op-pohjola group complies with legislation which requires that customers be informed of certain terms, properties or risks related to a
product or service. this notification obligation applies to all three business areas of the group: banking, non-life insurance and asset
management.

total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data (g4-pr8)
during 2013, op-pohjola group was made aware of 10 breaches of customers’ privacy. these were situations in which customers
were shown other customers’ data due for instance to a mailing error or other mistake, or to a customer mistakenly logging in to a
web service with another customer’s codes. the cases caused no financial damages.

programmes related to compliance with laws, standards and voluntary principles of marketing communications (incl.
advertising, sales promotion and sponsorship materials (g4-pr7) and procedures related to responsible development and
sale of financial services and products (fs15)
the financial sector is closely regulated and therefore op-pohjola complies in all of its operations with laws, standards and voluntary
principles. the group complies in its marketing with marketing legislation and the self-regulation guidelines of international
organisations, including those of the international chamber of commerce (icc). the group also abides by the marketing guidelines of
the consumer agency and the financial supervisory authority. during 2013, op-pohjola group received no reprimands related to its
marketing communications.




op-pohjola group

58                                                                                                                     responsibility 2013




gri reporting principles (g4-18)
this report is op-pohjola group’s second corporate social responsibility report prepared in accordance with the global reporting
initiative (gri) guidelines. op-pohjola enhanced its csr reporting during 2013 by adopting the new gri g4 guidelines. reporting at
op-pohjola fulfils the most extensive recommendations for the financial services sector supplement of the gri guidelines (i.e. “in
accordance, comprehensive”).

the group’s gri report also meets the reporting obligations related to the un global compact and the promotion of human rights,
labour, environmental and anti-corruption policies in op-pohjola’s business.

op-pohjola group’s corporate social responsibility report includes the data for 2013, in accordance with the group’s structure and
financial reporting principles. the csr report is divided into three parts. corporate social responsibility at op-pohjola group explores
corporate responsibility from the perspective of business and strategy. it describes the areas of focus, measures and leadership related
to op-pohjola group’s csr programme based on the principle of materiality. the section on the corporate social responsibility
programme presents the content, most recent measures and targets of the areas of emphasis within csr at op-pohjola. the section
on gri within csr presents the main aspects identified based on the materiality assessment, with kpis in accordance with the gri g4
guidelines. the executive board of op-pohjola group has approved the content of this report and assumes liability for it.

definition of materiality (g4-18)
op-pohjola determines the content of its csr report based on the reporting principles in the gri g4 guidelines. in identifying the
material aspects of csr, the most significant economic, social and environmental impacts of op-pohjola’s operations, products,
services business relations were taken into account. other aspects that were considered were ones which may affect stakeholders’
decisions or choices. in order to rate the priority of its csr aspects, op-pohjola carried out a stakeholder survey in 2013, whose
results are presented in conjunction with the materiality assessment. additionally, the significance of the aspects was internally
evaluated in relation to the group’s strategy and business functions. based on this evaluation, the aspects were put in order of priority
and the main areas of emphasis of csr efforts and the central content of the csr report were determined. the executive board of the
op-pohjola group has checked and approved the outcomes of the materiality assessment. op-pohjola’s material csr aspects are
presented in the gri content index and listed below.

identified material aspects (g4-19)
in the process for defining materiality the following gri-aspects were identified as material for op-pohjola’s reporting:
●    financial service specific: product portfolio, auditing and active ownership.
●    economic: economic performance and indirect economic impacts.
●    environmental: energy, emissions, products and services and supplier environmental assessment.
●    labour practices and decent work: employment, labour/management relations, occupational health and safety, training and
     education, diversity and equal opportunity, equal remuneration for women and men, supplier assessment for labour practices and
     labour practice grievance mechanisms.
●    human rights: non-discrimination, supplier human rights assessments and human rights grievance mechanisms.
●    society: local communities, anti-corruption, public policy, anti-competitive behaviour, compliance, supplier assessments for
     impacts on society and grievance mechanisms for impacts on society.
●    product responsibility: product and service labelling, marketing communications, customer privacy and compliance.

entities included (g4-20, g4-21)
op-pohjola group’s sustainability reporting is mainly performed within the same boundaries as the group’s financial reporting. the
kpis and gri indicators of the csr programme are calculated and are presented in accordance with the accounting principles. the
boundary applied to environmental responsibility data is different, as these data is based on information from the group’s facilities
management services. detailed energy consumption data is available on the premises of the central cooperative, while the member
banks’ data is based on a survey of a representative sample. any deviations or limitations in the boundary are reported next to the
applicable data.

numerical data is presented for the reporting period and comparative data for at least two previous financial years. for indicators for
which no comparative data is available from previous financial years, only the data for the reporting period is presented in the report.




op-pohjola group

59                                                                                                                    responsibility 2013


kpi calculation principles
the “capital adequacy ratio under the act on supervision of financial and insurance conglomerates” was calculated by dividing op-
pohjola group's total capital resources by the minimum amount of capital resources. the figures came from the op-pohjola group’s
consolidated financial statements.

customer service performance reliability refers to the availability of essential banking and insurance business systems. the availability
of business services is reported monthly, by providing the uptime percentage compared to the total minutes measured during that
month. the annual figure is the average of the monthly figures.

the figures for “support for local projects” were derived from accounting records by taking into account donations, awards and
sponsorship. sponsorship classified as sports advertising was manually removed from the data. support for local projects does not
include the baltic operations.

bonuses to owner-members includes bonuses accrued in 2013 by the cooperative banks' owner-members and helsinki op bank plc’s
bonus customers.

the percentage of owner-members belonging to banks with a representative assembly was calculated based on the total number of
approved members of the cooperative banks on 31/12/2013. banks with a representative assembly are those whose rules of
procedure include regulations applying to a representative assembly.

job satisfaction is derived from an annual employee survey whose 12 questions are collated to form a job satisfaction index. in 2013,
the survey applied to 7,599 employees from op-pohjola group central cooperative consolidated and 3,355 employees from
cooperative banks across finland. the structure of the employee survey changed in 2011, so the previous figures are not comparable.

the average retirement age is an average of the ages of retired personnel on the day of their retirement. the figure does not include
seesam insurance companies.

the numbers of e-invoices received by private customers and sent and received by corporate customers (excluding printing services)
are gathered monthly using a service statistics system.

pohjola bank’s dividend payout ratio is the total dividends paid divided by the net earnings for the period.

for op-pohjola group’s private customers, the recommendation rate is followed using a continuous op-pohjola tracking study. in the
survey, respondents grade their main bank and insurance company on a scale of 1–5. those responding that they are “fairly certain”
or “completely certain” to recommend the company are counted as recommenders, while those who are “fairly unlikely” or “completely
unlikely” are deducted from the figure. the survey received responses from 9,725 private customers in 2013.

among corporate customers, measurements of recommendation willingness are done annually using net promoter score (nps)
surveys. nps is based on a recommendation question graded on a scale of 0–10. the nps figure is obtained by deducting those who
are dissatisfied (score of 0–6) from the number of those who are likely to recommend the services (score of 9–10). the survey received
responses from 1,353 smes in 2013.

the group’s carbon footprint figure includes the group’s direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) and the group’s indirect emissions
resulting from the generation of electricity and heat purchased from other entities (scope 2). the calculations are explained in more
detail in the gri reporting principles. the calculations do not include the baltic operations.

the number of employees working in green office-labelled offices is calculated on the basis of the numbers reported by the offices
concerned.



bases for calculation of gri performance indicators
gri indicators specific to the financial sector (fs)
in relation to the gri indicators specific to the financial sector, the information is based on figures provided by business units, the
accuracy of which has been internally assured.

financial reporting (g4-ec1, g4-ec3, g4-ec4 and g4-ec9)
data on economic responsibility are based on figures audited for the consolidated ifrs financial statements of op-pohjola group for
2013.

the proportion of finnish suppliers of goods and services is calculated from purchase data entered in a group-level purchase
accounting system, and refers to suppliers with a finnish business id

social reporting
personnel data were gathered from the sap personnel system and from the baltic seesam insurance companies. unless otherwise
stated, the figures apply to the whole op-pohjola group.

op-pohjola group

60                                                                                                                     responsibility 2013
stated, the figures apply to the whole op-pohjola group.

g4-10 the number of employees is reported for the entire op-pohjola group, broken down by employment type, employment
contract, age and country.

g4-11 the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements is reported for the entire op-pohjola group-

g4-54 the ratio of highest and average salaries applies to finland.

g4-55 the ratio of percentage increase of highest and average salaries applies to finland.

g4-la1 new and terminated employment contracts are reported for the entire op-pohjola group. the figures do not include internal
personnel turnover (when employees change jobs within the group).the personnel turnover for permanent personnel does not include
business transfers.

g4-la3 the return to work and retention rates after parental leave figures apply to finland.

g4-la5 the percentage of the total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that
help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs are reported for the entire op-pohjola group. the employee
turnover rate for permanent personnel excludes business transfers.

g4-la6 the proportion of sickness absences out of regular man-years applies to finland.

g4-la9 the training costs in relation to total salary apply to finland.

g4-la11 the percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews are reported for the entire op-
pohjola group. employees who joined the group after the period covered by the previous performance and career development reviews
were excluded from the calculations.

g4-la12 the breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender and age group is reported for the entire op-pohjola
group.

the following are included in administration broken down by age and gender: members of the representative assembly and
supervisory board, chairman and deputy chairman of the supervisory board, members of the board of directors, chairman and vice
chairman of the board of directors, and deputy members of the board of directors.

environmental reporting
energy and climate (g4-en4 and g4-en16)

op-pohjola’s carbon footprint was calculated in accordance with the greenhouse gas protocol developed by the world resources
institute and the world business council for sustainable development. the following emission sources were taken into account, in line
with the division of the greenhouse gas protocol;
●    direct greenhouse gas emissions from the group’s operations (scope 1 – must be included): fuel consumption of emergency power
     systems and vehicles owned by the group (incl. vehicles of the group’s leasing company);
●    indirect greenhouse gas emissions from consumption of electricity and heat purchased from other entities (scope 2 – must be
     included): electricity and heat on office premises used by op-pohjola group central cooperative consolidated including the vallila
     2015 project (excl. the omasairaala hospital) and the member banks;
●    other indirect emissions (scope 3 – inclusion is voluntary): waste and wastewater, electricity consumption in a server room located
     on a service provider’s premises, business travel, purchased transport and mailing, lifecycle emissions of paper consumption.

the following were left out of calculations: specific impacts of the vallila 2015 project, omasairaala,energy consumption in holiday
properties, in the kuusiniementie housing corporation and on rented premises for atms; overseas operations; commuting; and
business travel by train, bus and local transport. insufficient emission factor data is available for any material consumption other than
office paper.

energy consumption is reported for op-pohjola group’s largest properties in helsinki (vääksyntie 2 and 4, elimäenkatu 5 and 15,
lapinmäentie and hiomotie), because accurate electricity consumption data is available for these.

the carbon footprint data for 2013 is not comparable to prior carbon footprint calculations for the op-pohjola group due to the effects
of the vallila 2015 construction project.




op-pohjola group

61                                                                                                                   responsibility 2013


gri level check / external assurance
according to the group’s own assessment, csr reporting at op-pohjola fulfils the most extensive recommendations for the financial
services sector supplement of the gri guidelines (i.e. “in accordance, comprehensive”). in line with this level, op-pohjola reports on
those corporate responsibility data and indicators that are material to its operations, in such a manner as to provide an adequate and
balanced account of the group’s corporate social responsibility and its impacts.

the report has not been externally assured. the correctness of the presented data has been assured internally. gri has checked that
the materiality assessment corresponds to the gri g4 guidelines. this check applied to the materiality of social responsibility aspects
(g4-17–23) and the descriptions of data and processes related to stakeholder engagement (g4-24–27). based on the check by gri, the
op-pohjola corporate social responsibility report for 2013 complies with the principles for content definition of the gri g4 guidelines.



contact information
contact persons for csr issues:

carina geber-teir
chief communications officer, executive board member

stina suominen
senior vice president, sustainability and brands

tiina junttila
communications manager, sustainability and brands

ilkka korhonen
development manager, financial communications and csr reporting



inquiries and other contacts: viestinta (at) op.fi




op-pohjola group

62                                                                                                                     responsibility 2013




case: quick help from omasairaala
the omasairaala hospital based in pikku huopalahti, helsinki,
delivers on its promise. this is what olli rimpiläinen thinks, a
man who broke his collarbone on a downhill slope.

- i have suffered all kinds of minor injuries when snowboarding.
compared with my previous experience of hospitals, the service
provided by omasairaala is faster and smoother. everything here
goes as scheduled and i have not even once had to sit and wait for
treatments, says he.

olli was injured during the last day of his downhill vacation in italy.
immediately after the trip, olli called pohjola which recommended
omasairaala specialising in orthopaedic illnesses and injuries. he
could make an appointment with a doctor for tuesday and was
already on an operating table on wednesday.

in addition to quick access to treatment at omasairaala, all the red
tape that filing a separate claim would have required could be avoided. it is also possible to deal with insurance-related matters at the
insurer-owned hospital.

rimpiläinen gives omasairaala top marks for how he felt about care at the hospital.

- on the whole, this has been my best experience of medical care that went quickly and smoothly. i have been treated properly and
professionally during every visit all the way from the appointment.

omasairaala treats a lot of knee, shoulder, arm and wrist fractures, muscle strains and ligament injuries. surgery is not an end in itself
but we aim to find the right and effective treatment for every trouble and injury. quick access to treatment shortens the sickness time,
which means cost-savings in many ways. our mission differs from that of conventional clinics: it is not based on the amount of
treatment and care but on the outcome. this will benefit both patients, employers and ultimately our society as a whole, says markus
torkki, chief medical officer of omasairaala.




op-pohjola group

63                                                                                                                     responsibility 2013




case: fund saving, a way to support the
protection of small rivers and lakes
op-clean water fund is an equity fund that invests funds globally
in companies offering products and services in the water sector.

"scarcity of clean water and the challenges of water distribution
are cause for concern, but they also create business opportunities.
this is why the fund appeals to savers and investors alike, with its
nature preservation theme and also financially," explains samuli
sipilä, managing director of op fund management company.

in the spring of 2013, we introduced a philanthropic share class
alongside the accumulation and distribution units, enabling op-
pohjola group and the unitholders to jointly help protect water
resources. investors in mutual funds have welcomed this warmly,
and by the end of 2013, more than eur 200,000 had been
invested in the philanthropic units.

the underlying investments and expected return of the
philanthropic units are equivalent to normal accumulation units in the fund, but the two per cent subscription fee will be donated in full
to the finnish association for nature conservation (fanc). the donations are used to finance projects to restore small finnish rivers
and lakes back to their natural state. the subscription fees accumulated in 2013 were used to restore rivers in southern ostrobothnia
and to introduce european crayfish and sea trout into them.

pirjo itkonen of fanc who coordinates cooperation with businesses explains that the donations have enabled the restoration of small
rivers and lakes to continue in ostrobothnia. for example, the beds of itäjoki brook in teuva and töniluoma brook in kristiinankaupunki
were worked on in september. such work improves the water quality and creates environments for the endangered sea trout and for
the the european crayfish, the original crayfish species in finland. these are prime examples of how a relatively small investment has
achieved a lot and restored and created new habitats for valuable species. the objective is to expand such restoration outside
ostrobothnia, as there is plenty of need for this in other parts of the country, too.




op-pohjola group
