osram sustainability report 2014




osram sustainability report 2014
as an international company, osram is responsible for its activities throughout the world, and not simply its
portfolio. this includes our business operations, our dealings with customers and suppliers, but also our own
production activities in relation to the environment and resources, as well as occupational health and safety. in
all of these areas, we help to reduce negative impacts and strengthen positive effects using appropriate
management systems and organizational measures.

economy, environment, and society
as a solution provider for products and systems, we base our strategic decisions on a holistic and integrated
concept considering all three pillars of sustainability – economy, environment, society – which is setting the
framework for all our thoughts and actions.


sustainability at osram – excerpt of facts & figures fiscal year 2014
sales                                        € 5,142.1 million
total employees                              33,843
employees by region                          apac: 13,243
                                             europe/mea: 14,414
                                             americas: 6,186
dow jones sustainability index world         member 2014, industry "electrical components & equipment"
oekom corporate rating                       prime status 2014
un global compact                            member since 2005
certifications                               iso 14001 matrix certificate
                                             ohsas 18001 matrix certificate
                                             iso 9001 matrix certificate
                                             sa 8000 for osram india
                                             iso 50001
                                             iso ts 16949
energy balance                               primary energy: 4,226,300 gj
                                             electricity: 2,887,563 gj
co2-emissions                                primary energy: 233,891 t
                                             electricity: 386,271 t
water usage                                  3,816,694 m³
waste balance                                waste for recycling: 35,689 t
                                             waste for disposal: 13,195 t
compliance                                   71 reports of potential compliance violations
                                             15 investigations concluded
                                             disciplinary action against 9 employees
                                             71 existing matters were closed following detailed assessment

additional information can be found on www.osram.com/at-a-glance




                                                         1

osram sustainability report 2014



table of contents
our gri content index is based on version g4 “core” of the international guidelines published by the global
reporting initiative and can be found at the end of this document. it shall enable to get a quick overview of the
report and ensure easy navigation.
the table of contents below provides an overview of the reported categories.
unless stated otherwise the information and numbers in this document refer to fiscal 2014. the
osram licht group’s fiscal year began on october 1, 2013, and ended on september 30, 2014.


i. general standard disclosure                                                                                      03
strategy and analysis                                                                                               03
organizational profile                                                                                              03
identified material aspects and boundaries                                                                          10
stakeholder engagement                                                                                              12
report profile                                                                                                      13
governance                                                                                                          14
ethics and integrity                                                                                                15


ii. specific standard disclosure                                                                                    16
category: economic                                                                                                  16
category: environment                                                                                               17
category: social                                                                                                    22
   sub-category: labor practices and decent work                                                                    22
   sub-category: human rights                                                                                       24
   sub-category: society                                                                                            25
   sub-category: product responsibility                                                                             27


iii. gri content index 2014                                                                                         28




                                                         2

osram sustainability report 2014



i. general standard disclosure
strategy and analysis
g4-1
provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as ceo, chair, or equivalent
senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for
addressing sustainability.
for a senior management statement please see our communication on progress (cop) 2014, > osram website:
www.osram.com/cop


organizational profile
g4-3
report the name of the organization.
osram licht ag

g4-4
report the primary brands, products, and services.
osram is one of the two leading light manufacturers in the world. our portfolio covers the entire value chain from
components – including lamps, electronic control gear and opto semiconductors such as light-emitting diodes
(led) – as well as luminaires, light management systems and lighting solutions.
our osram umbrella brand and the osram logo are registered trademarks in every country where trademarks
can be protected. our products are marketed primarily under this umbrella brand. optoelectronic semiconductor
components are sold under the osram opto semiconductors brand. in north america, we also market our
products under the sylvania brand. in the luminaires and light management markets, traxon and siteco are
additional brands; these are sold under the osram umbrella brand with the addition “an osram business.”
see our > annual report 2014, section "marketing", p. 90 (153 in whole pdf) and "osram world", p. e (64 in
whole pdf)

g4-5
report the location of the organization’s headquarters.
osram licht ag
represented by dr. olaf berlien, ceo, and dr. klaus patzak, cfo

marcel-breuer-straße 6
80807 munich
germany

phone: +49 89 6213-0
fax:   +49 89 6213-2020

> osram company profile




                                                          3

osram sustainability report 2014



g4-6
report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the
organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the
report.
our value added in fiscal 2014 was created by 33 production sites in 14 countries. through our subsidiaries, sales
locations, and partners, we have local representatives in over 120 countries, enabling us to keep in close contact
with our customers.




see our > annual report 2014, section "osram world", p. e (64 in whole pdf).

g4-7
report the nature of ownership and legal form.
osram is a global lighting group and a market-leading provider of lamps, luminaires and lighting solutions.
following its spin-off from siemens in fiscal 2013, osram was listed as an independent company.
the osram licht group comprises the parent company osram licht ag, an aktiengesellschaft (stock
corporation) in accordance with german law, and just under 100 subsidiaries and investees, including minority
interests.
see our > annual report 2014, "organizational structure and reporting principles", p. 40 et seq. (103 et seq. in
whole pdf).

g4-8
report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and
beneficiaries).
as a globally active company we serve markets worldwide. details can be found in our > annual report 2014,
"business activities", p. 42 et seq. (105 in whole pdf).




                                                         4

osram sustainability report 2014



g4-9
report the scale of the organization, including:
• total number of employees
• total number of operations
• net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations)
• total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations)
• quantity of products or services provided

•   total number of employees:            33,800 employees
                                          > annual report 2014, "osram figures", p. d (63 in whole pdf)

•   total number of operations:           33 production sites, 14 countries. through our subsidiaries, sales
                                          locations, partners, we have local representatives in over 120 countries.
                                          > annual report 2014, "osram world", p. e (64 in whole pdf)

•   net sales and total capitalization:   revenues € 5,142.1 million
                                          > annual report 2014, "consolidated financial statements", p. 120 et
                                          seq. (183 et seq. in whole pdf)

•   total capitalization broken down
    in terms of debt and equity:          see our > annual report 2014, "consolidated statement of financial
                                          position", p. 122 et seq. (186 in whole pdf).

•   quantity of products or services
    provided:                             see our > annual report 2014, "results of operations", p. 59 et seq. (122
                                          in whole pdf).




                                                         5

osram sustainability report 2014



g4-10
a. report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender.
b. report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender.
c. report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender.
d. report the total workforce by region and gender.
e. report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally
   recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including
   employees and supervised employees of contractors.
f. report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the
   tourism or agricultural industries).
for g4-10 we can provide the share of employees by segments, region, and function. significant variations in
employment numbers, such as seasonal variations, do not exist for fiscal year 2014.




> annual report 2014, table "employees by segments" and "employees by regions", p. 93 (156 in whole pdf)




> annual report 2014, table "employees by function", p. 183 (246 in whole pdf)

g4-11
report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements.
percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements varies widely between regions.
in germany all of our employees are covered by either works agreements with works council bodies with local
and country-wide responsibility or agreements with speakers` committee for executive management.
osram has a group works council for osram licht ag. for osram gmbh is a general works council in
place. in other countries own employee representatives are established.




                                                      6

osram sustainability report 2014



g4-12
describe the organization’s supply chain.
osram purchases a broad range of products from partners worldwide. in general our suppliers are separated
into direct material suppliers for raw, semi-finished, and packaging material, finished product suppliers, and
indirect material and service suppliers. our procurement function is organized regionally according to raw
materials groups and managed globally. it is responsible for the complete purchasing volume.
around two-thirds of our purchasing volume is attributable to direct materials and finished products. sourcing is to
a large extent directly impacted by market conditions for commodities such as nickel, copper, tin, or derivatives,
e.g. plastic resins or paper products. in glass and lamp production, energy is also an important part of sourcing.
the main finished products manufactured by third parties include certain compact fluorescent lamps, led lamps,
luminaires, and conventional as well as electronic control gears, which are acquired as part of different business
models such as contract manufacturing, or as merchandise, depending on the strategy for the product in question.
we also source services such as transportation of all kinds via suppliers with their own operating networks.
in fiscal 2014, the purchasing volume, i.e. the goods and services acquired from third parties, amounted to around
€2.9 billion (previous year: around €2.8 billion).
the most significant countries in terms of purchasing volumes in fiscal year 2014 were germany, china, malaysia,
and the united states of america. approximately one third of the total purchasing volume is sourced in emerging
markets.
additionally our own manufacturing activities are a mainstay of our business activity. our production expertise is
based on longstanding experience and consistent development of our footprint. as of september 30, 2014,
osram operated 33 production sites in 14 countries. the production sites are located mainly in europe, the asia-
pacific region, and north america.
important locations and additional procurement information can be found in our > annual report 2014, p. 41 (104
in whole pdf), and section "procurement", p. 89 (152 in whole pdf), as well as www.osram.com/supplier.

g4-13
report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership,
or its supply chain, including:
• changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions.
• changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for
    private sector organizations).
• changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers,
    including selection and termination.
the technology shift toward semiconductor technology is radically altering our business environment. the way in
which electric light is produced is undergoing fundamental change and opening up new technical opportunities in
terms of color, dynamics, miniaturization, application integration, longevity, and energy efficiency. we talk about
the lighting market experiencing a transformation towards semiconductor-based lighting. since the first quarter of
fiscal 2012 we are also actively driving forward this transformation within osram using osram push, our
enterprise-wide, comprehensive, continuous improvement program. the program encompasses all of the projects
and measures triggered by the technology shift and the associated realignment of osram’s portfolio,
organization, processes, and business culture. in addition, osram push addresses further structural and
operational measures designed to improve productivity across all segments.
as of september 30, 2011, osram had 43 production locations, eleven of which were due to be discontinued by
the end of fiscal 2014.
in may 2014, we opened our led assembly plant in the chinese city of wuxi, where led chips are mounted onto
housings. it is anticipated that up to 2,100 people will be employed at the new plant, which will have an annual
output of several billion leds.
for information regarding the size, structure and ownership please see our > annual report 2014:
•   "group structure and business activities", p. 40 et seq. (101 et seq. in whole pdf)
•   "osram push", p. 48 et seq. (111 et seq. in whole pdf)



                                                         7

osram sustainability report 2014



in fiscal 2014 there were no significant changes in share capital structure and other capital formation as well as in
our supply chain. see our > annual report 2014, "shareholder structure", p. 14 et seq. (77 et seq. in whole pdf)
and section "procurement", p. 89 (152 in whole pdf).

g4-14
report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization.
we use systematic risk and opportunity management to identify, assess, and manage risks and opportunities and
constantly enhance and adapt it to new circumstances in light of the changing global environment and
the modified corporate structure. due to its significance for decision-making and business processes, our risk and
opportunity management system is implemented in all organizational hierarchies and lines of responsibility.
we use a coordinated set of risk management and control systems which support us in the early recognition of
developments jeopardizing the continuity of osram’s business and in implementing the necessary measures.

the supervisory board’s audit committee is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of these systems. group
internal audit also includes compliance with the corporate policies regarding risk management in its annual audit
plan of selected entities. the findings of these audits are taken into account in the continuous improvement
process for our risk and opportunity management system. this ensures that the managing board and supervisory
board are fully and promptly informed of material risks and opportunities.

our risk and opportunity management system is based on a comprehensive, interactive, and management-
oriented enterprise risk management (“erm”) approach and builds on the worldwide accepted “enterprise risk
management - integrated framework” developed by the “committee of sponsoring organizations of the treadway
commission” (“coso”).

for details please see our > annual report 2014, "risks and opportunities report on risks and opportunities",
p. 100 et seq. (163 et seq. in whole pdf). general information regarding our risk management can be found on our
company website http://www.osram-licht.com/corporate_governance/risk_management/.

our corporate responsibility for sustainable development is an integral part of our strategy. organizationally, the
interdisciplinary topic of sustainability is directly anchored with managing board via the chief sustainability officer.

the tasks to be performed and the focus issues are developed and prepared by the relevant department - the
sustainability office - together with the responsible specialists, and presented and discussed on the sustainability
council. the latter approves the proposed resolutions on sustainability to be submitted to the managing board.
as a result of the going public, the sustainability council has been reorganized and already convened in its new
constellation in fiscal 2014. please see www.osram.com/sustainability-management.




                                                           8

osram sustainability report 2014



g4-15
list externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the
organization subscribes or which it endorses.
•   osram joined the > un global compact in 2005.
•   as described in our > business conduct guidelines we support the requirements of and therefore expect our
    employees, suppliers and business partners around the globe to recognize and apply particularly the
    standards of the:
     universal declaration of human rights (1948) and european convention for the protection of human
        rights and fundamental freedoms (1950)
     ilo (international labor organization) tripartite declaration of principles concerning multinational
        enterprises and social policy (1977) and ilo declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work
        (1998) (specially with following issues: elimination of child labor, abolition of forced labor, prohibition of
        discrimination, freedom of association and right to collective bargaining)
     oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises (2000)
     “agenda 21” on sustainable development (final document of the basic un- conference on environment
        and development, rio de janeiro (1992))
     un convention against corruption (2005)
•   we work with unep’s public-private partnership initiative, > en.lighten, to promote more efficient lighting.
•   osram joined 2012 the > global lighting and energy access partnership (global leap), sharing knowledge
    and best practices under principles that encourage self-sustaining commercial markets for energy access
    solutions, with focus on energy-efficient off-grid lighting.
•   osram is member of the european school of management and technology (esmt) and participates in its
    sustainable business roundtable (sbrt)
•   osram is signatory of the > charta der vielfalt (diversity charter)

g4-16
list memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy
organizations in which the organization:
holds a position on the governance body
participates in projects or committees
provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues
views membership as strategic
this refers primarily to memberships maintained at the organizational level.
at the organizational level osram participates in the below listed initiatives. on regional level, there are additional
initiatives.
• zentralverband elektrotechnik- und elektronikindustrie e.v. (zvei), germany
• middle east lighting association (mela), dubai
• national electrical manufacturers association (nema), arlington virginia, usa
• lightingeurope, brussels, europe
• china association of lighting industry (cali), china
nema, mela, cali are also members of the global lighting association (gla), and osram supports the
establishment of new associations such as for the asean region.
information can also be found in our > annual report 2014, "structure and business activities", p. 46 (109 in
whole pdf) and section "social commitment", p. 94 (157 in whole pdf).
additionally osram is applying its expertise in the off-grid sector, to help expand the > global off-grid lighting
association (gogla).




                                                          9

osram sustainability report 2014



identified material aspects and boundaries
g4-17
a. list all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents.
b. report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent
   documents is not covered by the report.
a) osram’s consolidated financial statements for fiscal 2014 include osram licht ag and its direct and indirect
subsidiaries. subsidiaries are companies whose operating and financial policies osram can control. control is
generally conveyed by ownership of the majority of voting rights. associates are included using the equity method
of accounting. companies in which osram has joint control are also included using the equity method.
see our > annual report 2014, "consolidated financial statements", p. 119 et seq. (182 et seq. in whole pdf)

b) all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements are also covered by this report. if
data are only available for certain entities, this will be stated.
g4-18
c. explain the process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries.
d. explain how the organization has implemented the reporting principles for defining report content.
this osram sustainability report 2014 shows the conclusion we have reached as a result of our deliberations
and gives an overview of our activities and successes in 2014. in fiscal 2014 we launched a cross-functional and
cross-divisional multi-stage materiality process (see www.osram.com/materiality). as the process is ongoing and
as we aim to report in a timely manner, we decided to use as reporting basis for this year’s report the sustainability
related material aspects from our annual report 2014, which reflect the organization’s significant economic,
environmental, and social impacts for fiscal 2014.

g4-19, g4-20, g4-21
list all the material aspects identified in the process for defining report content.
for each material aspect, report the aspect boundary within the organization, as follows:
• report whether the aspect is material within the organization
• if the aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in g4-17), select one of the
    following two approaches and report either:
     the list of entities or groups of entities included in g4-17 for which the aspect is not material or
     the list of entities or groups of entities included in g4-17 for which the aspects is material
report any specific limitation regarding the aspect boundary within the organization
for each material aspect, report the aspect boundary outside the organization, as follows:
• report whether the aspect is material outside of the organization
• if the aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for
     which the aspect is material. in addition, describe the geographical location where the aspect is material for
     the entities identified
• report any specific limitation regarding the aspect boundary outside the organization

the following table shows which material aspects and indicators are covered in this report.


material aspects and indicators
category: economic
economic                  g4-ec1: direct economic value generated and distributed
performance
                          g4-ec2: financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the
                          organization's activities due to climate change




                                                         10

osram sustainability report 2014



category: environmental
materials             g4-en2: percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials
energy                  g4-en3: energy consumption within the organization
                        g4-en6: reduction of energy consumption
water                   g4-en10: percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused
emissions               g4-en15: direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 1)
                        g4-en16: energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 2)
                        g4-en19: reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions
effluents and waste     g4-en23: total weight of waste by type and disposal method
products and            g4-en27: extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and
services                services
                        g4-en28: percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are
                        reclaimed by category
supplier assessment     g4-en32: percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental
for labor practices     criteria


category: social
sub-category: labor practices and decent work
occupational health   g4-la6: type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and
and safety            absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender

supplier assessment     g4-la14: percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices
for labor practices     criteria

sub-category: human rights
supplier human       g4-hr10: percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights
rights assessment    criteria

                        g4-hr11: significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the
                        supply chain and actions taken
sub-category: society
anti-corruption       g4-so3: total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to
                      corruption and the significant risks identified

                        g4-so4: communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures

compliance              g4-so5: confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken

sub-category: product responsibility
customer health         g4-pr1: percentage of significant product and service categories for which health
and safety              and safety impacts are assessed for improvement

product and             g4-pr5: results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction
service labeling


additional material aspects, which are crucial for osram, are innovation management and quality. they are
key driver in safeguarding osram’s medium- and long-term economic, environmental and social sustainability.



                                                    11

osram sustainability report 2014



g4-22
report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such
restatements.
as of this year, we report in accordance with the gri g4 “core” standard for the first time. in our gri g3 reports
osram was a 100 percent subsidiary of the siemens ag. osram licht ag was spun-off from siemens ag on
july 5, 2013.

g4-23
report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries.
as of this year, we report in accordance with the gri g4 “core” standard for the first time. no significant changes
from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries.


stakeholder engagement
g4-24
provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization.
our most important stakeholder groups are:
• employees
• customers and consumers
• shareholders and capital market
• suppliers
• politics and society

please see additional information          regarding    stakeholder    dialogue    on    our   company     website
www.osram.com/stakeholder

g4-25
report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage.
acting sustainably as an international company requires the constant engagement with all different internal and
external stakeholders. such behavior is essential to establish mutual trust, contribute to spreading sustainable
concepts, and receive feedback about our own actions.




                                                        12

osram sustainability report 2014



g4-26
report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and
by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of
the report preparation process.
our stakeholders have diverse interests in and concerns with regard to us. topics such as employee satisfaction,
environmental protection, social aspects, also in our supply chain, and economic performance are only some
examples. we want to understand and respond to our stakeholders’ interests by engaging in issue-specific
dialogues and activities.

employees:           we conduct e.g. global employee surveys, 360-degree feedback sessions, townhall meetings.
customers:           beside direct contact via different channels, we e.g. carry out annual surveys of a
                     representative group of customers for calculating the net promoter score (nps).
shareholders:        our investor relations team and the executive board e.g. conduct one-to-one meetings,
                     investor road shows, quarterly earnings calls, and our annual general meeting; the investor
                     relations team also engages in collaboration with the corporate sustainability office with the
                     sustainable investment community.
suppliers:           we e.g. hold supplier days to create and ensure a common understanding.
politics, society:   we are in dialogue e.g. by individual meetings or participation in conferences. one concrete
                     example is our membership of the united nations environment programme’s en.lighten
                     initiative, a public-private partnership to promote more efficient lighting.

we plan to engage external stakeholders specifically for our next s report.

g4-27
report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization
has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. report the stakeholder groups
that raised each of the key topics and concerns.

there are various topics that we discuss with stakeholders in different ways, so as to respond to their concerns.
examples are the risks and opportunities of the transformation of the lighting market towards semiconductor-
based lighting technology. we are systematically addressing this e.g. through osram push, our company-wide,
comprehensive, continuous improvement program to adapt business processes. see also our > annual report
2014, "osram push", p. 48 et seq. (111 et seq. in whole pdf).

report profile
g4-28
reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided.
unless stated otherwise the information and numbers in this document refer to fiscal 2014. the osram licht
group’s fiscal year began on october 1, 2013, and ended on september 30, 2014.

g4-29
date of most recent previous report (if any).
as of this year, we report in accordance with the gri g4 “core” standard for the first time. our most recent gri
g3 report was published 2011.
osram´s annual report 2014 (including sustainability information and financial statements) was published in
december 2014, our most recent ungc communication on progress 2014 in january 2015.

g4-30
reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial).
osram has an annual reporting cycle.




                                                         13

osram sustainability report 2014



g4-31
provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents.
sustainability@osram.com

g4-32
a) report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen.
b) report the gri content index for the chosen option (see tables below).
c) report the reference to the external assurance report, if the report has been externally assured. gri
   recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the guidelines.
a) we have chosen the g4 “core” option.
b) the gri content index can be found at the end of this document.
c) our annual report is externally assured. the osram sustainability report 2014 is not externally assured.

g4-33
a) report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report.
b) if not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of
   any external assurance provided.
c) report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers.
d) report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the
   organization’s sustainability report.

a) – d): external assurance of our sustainability report is currently not in scope.

governance
g4-34
report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body.
identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts.
osram licht ag is governed by the aktiengesetz (aktg - german stock corporation act) and thus has a dual
board system, comprising a managing board and a supervisory board. the supervisory board has formed the
executive committee, nomination committee, strategy and technology committee, mediation committee, audit
committee. the audit committee reviews issues relating to sustainability. for details please see our > annual
report 2014, “corporate governance report”, p. 18 et seq. (82 et seq. in whole pdf) and the section “corporate
governance” on our investors relation website www.osram-licht.com.

organizationally, the interdisciplinary topic of
sustainability is directly anchored with
managing board via the chief sustainability
officer. please see details > annual report
2014, p. 86-87 (149-150 in whole pdf) and
www.osram.com/sustainability-management.




                                                         14

osram sustainability report 2014



ethics and integrity
g4-56
describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and
codes of ethics.
along with our brand and strategy, corporate culture is an integral part of the osram identity. the "innovative –
respectful – entrepreneurial" corporate values define our understanding of how we should interact with each
other and with others. they are reflected in our daily behavior and in facts and figures that define osram as a
business. for us, being innovative means to contribute to social responsibility by making our products more
energy-efficient. our value "respectful" stands inter aliafor our careful use of resources and which governs our
dealings with colleagues, customers, suppliers, investors, and the public. we promote the ability to think as
entrepreneurs among all our employees and managers, which motivates us to always give our best to create
added value for all stakeholders.

the framework of our sustainability actions consists – beside the osram identity – of our osram business
conduct guidelines (> bcgs). this corporate code of conduct defines group wide rules, covering the areas of
human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. it combines important international standards (e.g.
universal declaration of human rights, ilo declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work, “agenda
21” on sustainable development, un convention against corruption) and clearly summarizes our basic values.
our concise > code of conduct for suppliers forms the foundation along with our own business conduct
guidelines. it combines the most important international standards and conditions and clearly summarizes our
basic values.




                                                       15

osram sustainability report 2014



ii. specific standard disclosure
category: economic (ec)
g4-dma ec
disclosures on management approach (dma) for economic
the economic component of osram’s sustainability approach comprises aspects such as responsible and legally
compliant management, risk-, innovation-, customer relationship- and supplier management. as osram is
synonymous with innovative, tailor-made products and solutions that are extremely high quality and reliable,
quality management is also crucial for osrams sustainable economic performance.
we aim to consistently make the most of the business opportunities that arise while managing risks. our strong
position in the lighting market and our profound knowledge of, and many years’ experience in, electrical lighting
are the strengths on which we want to build our longterm success in the lighting business.

the challenges presented by the market shift toward semiconductor-based lighting are unprecedented in the
lighting industry. at the same time, new opportunities are emerging to capture new business areas and gain
competitive advantages.

osram addressed the technology shift toward semiconductor technology, which is radically altering our business
environment, with its enterprise-wide, comprehensive, end-to-end continuous improvement program, “osram
push”. it is driving forward the culture change, enabling the necessary cost improvements and restructuring
measures, and paving the way for new business growth. overall, it aims to make osram’s offerings more
sustainable. the program’s focus areas are corporate culture, optimization of the operational business, structural
adjustments, process improvements, and profitable growth. by systematically continuing osram push, we are
flexibly and resolutely positioned to adapt to market changes, while at the same time making the most of the
opportunities offered by innovative products and solutions and new business models. the first phase of the
osram push program, which commenced in 2012, was successfully completed on schedule in fiscal 2014.
however, osram push is a continuing improvement program that, in light of recent market developments and
the accelerating pace of transition, will enter a second phase (2015 - 2017).

see also our > annual report 2014, "osram push", p. 48 et seq. (111 et seq. in whole pdf).

for our risk and opportunity management please refer to our > annual report 2014, "risk and opportunity
management system", p. 100 et seq. (163 et seq. in whole pdf) and also our corporate > investor relation website.

details regarding the economic aspect of sustainability at osram can be found on our corporate website
www.osram.com/economic.


aspect: economic performance
g4-ec1
direct economic value generated and distributed.
for our economic value generated and distributed please refer to our > annual report 2014:
• revenue and operating costs, "consolidated statement of income", p. 120 (183 in whole pdf)
• personnel costs, note 35 “personnel costs”, p. 183 (246 in whole pdf)
• payments to providers of capital, section “dividend payout ratio”, p. 84 (147 in whole pdf)

g4-ec2
financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change.
according to studies by the united nations environment program (unep), artificial lighting consumes around 15%
of total electricity production worldwide and accounts for approximately 5% of global primary energy use. this
means that our product portfolio is a highly effective lever for combating climate change. the technology shift
towards led lighting, in which osram is an active player, is helping to bring about a transition to energy-efficient
lighting that offers one of the most rapidly implementable ways to lower co2 emissions.



                                                        16

osram sustainability report 2014



osram will align with the ambitious eu 20-20-20 targets for its global operations, which means a 20 % absolute
reduction of co2 emissions, water consumption and waste generation by 2020 based on the 1990 values (osram
base year is 2006). the target for co2 is a 0.75% reduction of co2 emissions per year.

please see additional information on our corporate website www.osram.com/climate-strategy and in our > annual
report 2014.

indicators added by osram
as mentioned before innovation management and quality are key drivers in safeguarding osram’s economic
sustainability. our brand promise for fiscal 2014 was “innovation & quality”. we believe that the ability to innovate
is an opportunity and that our combined know-how in the areas of traditional and led technology, together with
our deep understanding of lighting applications, will be important success factors in our transition to led products.

innovation management: research and development (r&d)
research and development expenses amounted to €331.4 million in fiscal 2014 (previous year: € 341.2 million).
at 6.4%, r&d intensity (the ratio of research and development expenses to consolidated revenue) remained on a
par with the previous year’s figure (6.5%), which was negatively impacted by transformation costs to a much
greater extent. in fiscal 2014, led products accounted for around 75% (fiscal 2013: approx. 62%) of our r&d
expenses.

the number of employees in r&d was around 2,400 as of september 30, 2014 (previous year: approx. 2,500).

please see our > annual report 2014, "opportunities", section “expertise along the entire value chain”, p. 106
(169 in whole pdf) and “research and development”, p. 87-89 (p. 150-152 in whole odf).

quality
osram is synonymous with innovative, tailor-made products and solutions that are extremely high quality and
reliable. to continue meeting these requirements while product complexity is increasing and product development
cycles are shrinking, we rely on our “quality first” culture.
all manufacturing sites have iso 9001 certification, underlining our efforts towards achieving high standards.
in addition, those sites that supply automotive customers meet the strict requirements of the iso ts 16949 quality
management standard for the automotive industry, and in fiscal 2014 their certification was renewed.

please see our > annual report 2014, section "quality", p. 89 (152 in whole pdf) and www.osram.com/quality.

category: environmental (en)
g4-dma en
disclosures on management approach for environmental
ecological factors are very important to us as a global manufacturing company. for osram, environmental
protection includes a sustainable approach to energy saving, water conservation, waste disposal and chemicals,
as well as monitoring emissions. in addition, great importance is placed on environmentally friendly design and
product recycling.

we have established environmental policies, guidelines, and targets that are mandatory for all operating sites
worldwide. responsibility for environmental protection at osram lies clearly with company management and is
supervised by the ehs department which handles company-wide coordination and continued development. at
individual plants, managers and their department heads are responsible for practical implementation. the plants
receive support and advice from our environmental experts on energy, water, waste, chemicals, and air pollution.
in order to monitor continuously how well we are implementing our environmental policies and meeting our targets,
we have established an organization with clearly defined areas of responsibility and a systematic management
system as prescribed by the international iso 14001 standard, including the collection from all osram plants and
compiling comprehensive reports. osram’s matrix certificate was renewed in august 2014 following an external
audit. the certificate covers all production sites worldwide and is valid until the end of 2016.




                                                         17

osram sustainability report 2014



you can find our corporate environmental, health and safety (ehs) policy and further details on our company
website www.osram.com/environmental as well as in our > annual report 2014, "ecological aspects", p. 90-92
(153-155 in whole pdf).

aspect: materials
aspect-specific dma guidance for materials
as a producing company, we use materials for our products, for packaging and to facilitate processes. we assume
product responsibility and develop, manufacture and market our products in accordance with principles that ensure
customer safety and do not endanger the environment.

we avoid waste wherever possible. our lamps only contain a minimum amount of environmentally damaging
substances and we do not use unnecessary packaging materials. we continuously work on improving our products
to make them as recyclable as possible. when developing new products, we reduce the amount of harmful
substances or, if possible, completely replace them with harmless substances.

we aim to reduce the mercury content in all our products to the lowest amount technically possible. therefore, we
are constantly improving our product and production technology and we are continually upgrading our existing
production facilities to implement such technologies. our approach is going beyond legal requirements, such as
the european rohs-directive.

we use environmental product declaration as a transparent method to communicate our committment to
sustainability. for business customers, understanding the environmental impact of sourced inputs enables the
overall environmental footprint of products or processes to be measured and for a thorough life-cycle assessment
to be conducted.

please see our > annual report 2014, section "packaging" and “product responsibility”, p. 92 (155 in whole pdf)
as well as www.osram.com/sustainability-criteria.

g4-en2
percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials.
the design process, which includes ideas for packaging, makes a significant contribution to waste prevention
early on. osram has clear guidelines for the design and procurement of packaging. packaging should be made
from environmentally sustainable materials that can be easily recycled or disposed of. in addition, its volume and
weight should be limited to the amount required to protect the contents. this means, that for the majority of our
products, folding boxes are used for primary packaging and corrugated cardboard boxes for shipment packaging.
the cardboard and paper used to produce these packaging components had a recycled content of between 70%
and 90% in fiscal 2014.

various recycling procedures have been established for the reuse of led and discharge lamps for both stationary
and mobile operations. these procedures aim at neatly separating the components of the lamps and reusing the
remaining material wherever possible. clean glass is used for the production of new lamps and mixed glass is
recycled with other glass. metal parts go into metal recycling and plastics are mainly recycled thermally. phosphors
are blown out or rinsed out and can be used for industrial processes. this is how more than 90% of raw lamp
materials is reused.

information are also provided in our > annual report 2014, section "packaging", p. 92 (155 in whole pdf) and on
our corporate website www.osram.com/packaging as well as www.osram.com/recycling.




                                                        18

osram sustainability report 2014



aspect: energy
aspect-specific dma guidance for energy
within our production processes primary energy use still plays a significant role that again leads to direct co2
emissions. in order to comprehensively address the issue of energy consumption and greenhouse gas (ghg)
emissions in our own production facilities, we use our ehs policy, set internal targets, and monitor the
achievements by our environmental management system.

for enhancing our approach and for identifying all potential savings, osram initiated a special project at the start
of fiscal 2013: we established a global energy efficiency project with expert teams in all sites in order to enhance
energy efficiency through systematic implementation of appropriate measures. all factories have been assigned
individual reduction targets for related emissions that need to be met by the end of the current fiscal year. we are
also implementing an energy management system (iso 50001) at all our german production sites, which amount
to about 50% in terms of energy costs.

please see also our > annual report 2014, section "energy and climate", p. 91 (154 in whole pdf).

g4-en3, g4-en6
energy consumption within the organization.
reduction of energy consumption.
measures introduced reduced primary energy consumption osram-wide to 4,226,300 gj (gigajoules) in fiscal
2014 compared with 4,461.486 gj in the previous year.

beside our annual report, please see our corporate website www.osram.com/environmental-management.
within the link “environmental data” you can find actual numbers.

aspect: water
aspect-specific dma guidance for water
in the production of lighting products water is mainly needed for cooling processes, and thus hardly polluted. but
for osram it is still of great importance to use water responsibly and committed itself in its guidelines to manage
water and other precious resources sustainably.
thus we make sure to either clean polluted water ourselves or redirect it to local sewage plants. furthermore we
consider the scarcity of this precious resource in all our production processes and monitor our water usage.

the adaptation of water management to the local availability of water is of great importance to osram. for this
reason we keep an extra eye on those production sites that are located in areas of water stress or scarcity. there
we place a special focus on continuously monitoring and improving our production processes to make them ever
more water-efficient, and thus more economical as well as ecological. many osram production sites have taken
steps to use the most environmentally advanced production techniques that reduce the usage of water to a
minimum. you can find examples on our website www.osram.com/factories.

please see our corporate website www.osram.com/water and our > annual report 2014, section "water", p. 91
(154 in whole pdf).

g4-en10
percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused.
over the past few years, we have recorded a reduction in absolute water consumption. in fiscal 2014, water
consumption was 3,816,694 m³ (previous year: 3,955,956 m³). this represents a reduction of 139,262 m³ (3,5%)
compared with the previous year.

beside the above mentioned references, please also see our corporate website www.osram.com/environmental-
management. within the link “environmental data” you can find actual numbers.




                                                        19

osram sustainability report 2014



aspect: emissions
aspect-specific dma guidance for emissions
please see “aspect-specific dma guidance for energy” and “aspect-specific dma guidance for materials” as well
as www.osram.com/climate-strategy.

g4-en15, g4-en16, g4-en19
direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 1).
energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 2).
reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions.
in fiscal 2014 electricity consumption was reduced to 2,887,563 gj (previous year: 2,952,985 gj). this directly
impacted co2 emissions, which fell to 233,891 tons (previous year: 247.597 tons) for primary energy consumption
and 386.271 tons (previous year: 399.101 tons) for electricity.

aspect: effluents and waste
aspect-specific dma guidance for effluents and waste
please refer to “aspect-specific dma guidance for materials”.

g4-en23
total weight of waste by type and disposal method.
in fiscal 2014, osram produced 35,689 tons of recyclable waste worldwide (previous year: 36,784 tons) and
13,195 tons (previous year: 10,934 tons) of waste for disposal. the increase in waste for disposal was caused by
changes at the recycling companies and by temporary changes in waste quantities in connection with factory
closures and relocations.

please see our > annual report 2014, section "waste", p. 91 (154 in whole pdf).


aspect: products and services
aspect-specific dma guidance for products and services
our products affect the environment in a variety of ways. obviously, they are made in factories that have an
environmental footprint and they significantly impact on the environment during their use. however, in order to
evaluate lamps and how they actually deal with energy and resources, it is not enough just to consider single
stages of their life cycle. thus, the life cycle analysis (lca) of a product considers the environmental aspects and
potential environmental impacts of a product throughout its entire life cycle.

in order to assess the environmental performance of osram products, life cycle analyses of several specific
products were conducted, representing certain product groups. the method for these analyses was an
assessment as outlined in the international standards iso 14040 and 14044. apart from the primary energy
consumption, the impact on the environment was evaluated in specific categories.

the collection and recycling of used discharge lamps, for example, is regulated in european countries by eu
directive 2002/96/eg weee (waste electrical and electronic equipment) and implemented by specially
established organizations, companies, and foundations. fluorescent lamps and discharge lamps contain small
amounts of mercury and valuable raw materials. led lamps and luminaires also contain valuable raw materials,
along with electronic components. this is why it is important that the products are collected and recycled or
disposed of safely.




                                                        20

osram sustainability report 2014



g4-en27
extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services.
we conducted life cycle analyses for certain typical products, in order to evaluate the impact of osram products
on the environment. the methodology used for these analyses was based on the international iso 14040 and
iso 14044 standards.

please see our corporate website www.osram.com/lca and our > annual report 2014, section "product
responsibility", p. 92 (155 in whole pdf).

g4-en28
percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category.
the aim of product recycling is to recover as many sorted materials as possible, in order to conserve limited
resources and to protect the environment through the professional disposal of hazardous substances.

since 2005 we established collection, recycling service organizations together with other producers of the
lighting sector within the eu to fulfill the requirements under the directive eu 2002/96/ec (weee) as well as
2012/19/eu (weee recast) and the relevant national implementations.

anticipating the issue of recycling at an early product development stage means that over 90% of osram’s lamp
components are recyclable.

please see our corporate website www.osram.com/recycling and our > annual report 2014, section "recycling",
p. 92 (155 in whole pdf).

aspect: supplier environmental assessment
g4-en32
percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria.
with our systematic risk-based management approach, we ensure that suppliers meet our standards. as part of
this, all applicable new suppliers must inter alia provide information on quality, product safety and environmental
aspects. we expect our suppliers to comply with our code of conduct for suppliers. it covers areas such human
rights, labour, environment, anti-corruption, combines important international standards (e.g. universal
declaration of human rights, ilo declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work, “agenda 21” on
sustainable development, un convention against corruption) and clearly summarizes our basic values.

over 2,800 suppliers have accepted and signed our code of conduct. this total represents 90% of the suppliers
with whom we aim to sign such agreements, and also covers 93% of our purchasing volume. in addition, suppliers
are required to provide relevant information about themselves, including data relating to specific criteria.
.
please see our > annual report 2014, section "procurement", p. 89 (152 in whole pdf), as well as
www.osram.com/supplier.




                                                        21

osram sustainability report 2014



category: social
sub-category: labor practices and decent work (la)

g4-dma la
disclosures on management approach for labor practices and decent work
osram fulfills its social responsibilities as a global enterprise. our business culture is an integral part of our
osram identity, along with our brand and strategy. our corporate values “innovative – respectful -
entrepreneurial” define our understanding of how we should interact both internally and with external contacts.

strict management and the orderly documentation and monitoring of processes, equipment, methods, and
procedures, together with appropriate training programs, are essential to implementing osram’s commitment to
providing a safe, healthy working environment for all employees and to minimizing the risk of accidents at work or
of employment- related illnesses. all osram employees have an obligation and responsibility to be mindful of
safety at all times, wherever they are. in order to monitor ongoing compliance with our occupational safety targets,
we have introduced a management system that meets the requirements of the internationally recognized ohsas
18001 standard.

risk assessment has to be carried out for all areas of operation by the responsible line managers, supported by
trained safety representatives. they assess the potential risks that may arise in each activity and propose
countermeasures to reduce them. the measures are systematically announced and implemented, and regularly
monitored. in addition, we have established occupational health and safety committees at all relevant sites, in
accordance with local legal requirements or on a voluntary basis.

additionally to the health and safety of our employees, diversity is an important factor for osram. for us diversity
is creating the opportunity for employees from different cultures, and with different backgrounds, religions,
genders, and skills to work together and to create competitive advantage. our diversity program ensures that
employees with the same experience and qualifications have the same career opportunities, irrespective of their
personal background, gender, or nationality. the program comprises global projects, initiatives, and training
programs. using webinars that are accessible worldwide, the program aims to promote different ways of thinking,
as well as greater understanding of diversity within the organization. every year, our women leadership forum
offers 25 female staff from across the world the opportunity to meet male and female role models from senior
management and focus on building their own leadership skills.

highly qualified specialists and managers are crucial to osram’s success. competition for qualified employees
among companies that rely heavily on engineering and technology is intense. the loss of qualified employees or
an inability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees required for the operation, transition, and
expansion of our business could limit our ability to conduct research successfully and to develop and sell
marketable products. competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in the area of r&d, engineering,
and the project business (qualified led sales people). succession planning, identifying and developing talent, and
dedicated employee development programs are therefore a global focus.

for addressing the development of our employees and talents we inter alia provide general and specific trainings,
360 degree feedback sessions, and have certain employee development programs in place, such as the
management- and leadership development programs.

additional information can be found in our > annual report 2014, “social aspects”, p. 92 et. seq. (156 in whole
pdf) and on our website www.osram.com/social.




                                                        22

osram sustainability report 2014



aspect: occupational health and safety
g4-la6
type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-
related fatalities, by region and by gender.
the effectiveness of our health and safety programs can be measured by the following relevant statistics. they
encompass for osram gmbh all sites in germany, excluding affiliated companies, and for osram europe all
sites in europe, including affiliated companies and osram gmbh.
in comparison to previous years the numbers of occupational accidents are relatively constant within osram
gmbh. with eight accidents per 1000 employees in 2014 we are way below the industry average. not only can
this be explained by the intensive training that has been conducted by superiors and health and safety officers,
but also by an increasing awareness of the importance of safety throughout the workforce. improved machine
safety, already during the planning and construction phase of machines, also helped to decrease incidents over
the last years.
accidents like stumbling, falling or tripping as well as accidents related to internal transportation make up nearly
half of all occupational accidents. our aim is being accident-free – to this end, the accident prevention measures
are constantly being improved in our plants. above that, the osram health and safety committee committed itself
to intensify trainings to further reduce the frequency and severity of occupational accidents.

the numbers below can also be found on our corporate website www.osram.com/hs-statistics

occupational accidents
year            osram gmbh*          osram europe*
2012            8                    8
2013            10                   8
2014            8                    7

occupational accidents per 1000 employees resulting in more than three lost workdays, excluding the day of accident. off-site
accidents are not included in this statistic.

absenteeism
year            osram gmbh*
2012            4.6 %
2013            4.4 %
2014            4.6 %

the development of absenteeism due to illness over the last twelve years. the total absence is shown as a percentage of the
entire ordinary working hours.

* osram gmbh encompasses all sites in germany, excluding affiliated companies. osram europe comprises all sites in
europe, including affiliated companies and osram gmbh.




                                                             23

osram sustainability report 2014



aspect: supplier assessment for labor practices
g4-la14
percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria.

with our systematic risk-based management approach, we ensure that suppliers meet our standards. as part of
this, all applicable new suppliers must inter alia provide information on quality, product safety and environmental
aspects. we expect our suppliers to comply with our code of conduct for suppliers. it covers areas such human
rights, labour, environment, anti-corruption, combines important international standards (e.g. universal
declaration of human rights, ilo declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work, “agenda 21” on
sustainable development, un convention against corruption) and clearly summarizes our basic values.

over 2,800 suppliers have accepted and signed the code. this total represents 90% of the suppliers with whom
we aim to sign such agreements, and also covers 93% of our purchasing volume. in addition, suppliers are
required to provide relevant information about themselves, including data relating to specific criteria.
please see our > annual report 2014, section "procurement", p. 89 (152 in whole pdf), as well as
www.osram.com/supplier.

sub-category: human rights (hr)
g4-dma hr
disclosures on management approach for human rights
as a global manufacturing company with businesses worldwide and a variety of suppliers, it is important for us to
address and support human rights and labor practices within our company as well as in our supply chain.

human rights and labor principles are covered by our > bcgs and the osram code of conduct for suppliers (>
coc). additionally a clause in the purchase and order conditions states the contractors´ obligation to respect the
basic rights of its employees and to procure a safe work environment. they shall observe the prohibition of child
labor according to the declaration of the international labour organization on basic labor principles.

adherence is evaluated in our supplier qualification process by several tools and requested to our suppliers:
supplier self-disclosures in which relevant data on corporate responsibility criteria is queried and supplier audits
are carried out by an impartial external auditor on the basis of the self-disclosures and other specific risk-based
criteria.

please see our > annual report 2014, section "procurement", p. 89 (152 in whole pdf), as well as
www.osram.com/supplier.


aspect: supplier human rights assessment
g4-hr10
percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria.
with our systematic risk-based management approach, we ensure that suppliers meet our standards. as part of
this, all applicable new suppliers must inter alia provide information on quality, product safety and environmental
aspects. we expect our suppliers to comply with our code of conduct for suppliers. it covers areas such human
rights, labour, environment, anti-corruption, combines important international standards (e.g. universal
declaration of human rights, ilo declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work, “agenda 21” on
sustainable development, un convention against corruption) and clearly summarizes our basic values.

over 2,800 suppliers have accepted and signed the code. this total represents 90% of the suppliers with whom
we aim to sign such agreements, and also covers 93% of our purchasing volume. in addition, suppliers are
required to provide relevant information about themselves, including data relating to specific criteria.




                                                        24

osram sustainability report 2014



g4-hr11
significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken.
one of the aspects of a sustainable supply chain that has gained special relevance lately is the issue of “conflict
minerals”. osram has a long tradition of operating business in a way that is socially and environmentally
responsible. our “code of conduct for suppliers” has always required our suppliers to respect the basic human
rights of employees and others, and prohibited our suppliers and their respective suppliers from being complicit in
illegal and unethical conduct. however the issue of conflict minerals requires a more stringent approach covering
the entire supply chain down to the very origin of these materials. for that reason, osram has developed this
policy to supplement our code of conduct for suppliers. we have systems and processes in place to ensure
accountability in our supply chain and we will improve these systems as necessary to meet new requirements.

please find our conflict minerals policy on our website www.osram.com/conflictminerals


sub-category: society (so)
g4-dma so
disclosures on management approach for society
for information regarding our enterprise risk management system please refer to our > annual report 2014,
"risks and opportunities report on risks and opportunities", p. 100 et seq. (163 et seq. in whole pdf).
general information can be found on our company website http://www.osram-
licht.com/corporate_governance/risk_management/.

basically, our compliance system is designed to prevent, detect, and respond to potential violations of existing
anticorruption and antitrust provisions. we address fighting corruption and the proper conduct when engaging in
competition through our company wide policies, in particular our business conduct guidelines and our
compliance guideline. in addition, we made use of various it tools to assess compliance-related risks. for
example, we classify our business partners based on certain risk indicators, such as the level of corruption in the
country (transparency international ti/cpi) in which the relevant business partner operates. the business partner
tool supports our employees how a compliance due diligence on a business partner has to be performed. we
have also introduced country-specific tools addressing issues relating to giving and receiving gifts and
hospitalities, sponsorships, donations, and memberships (spodom-tool). to ensure the implementation of our
compliance guidelines, processes and tools multiple face-to-face and web-based trainings have been conducted,
including at top management level. we keep all of our employees informed about compliance measures and new
developments through information material, our intranet and via email.

for reporting possible compliance violations, we rely on an anonymous whistleblower hotline (“tell osram”).
third parties can access tell osram via our company website www.osram.com/compliance in several
languages. any information will be treated confidentially. tell osram offers a secure communication platform
using latest privacy technologies. furthermore, all employees have the option to report violations to our
compliance organization.

we follow up on any indication of a compliance violation (investigation). upon completion of an investigation, we
propose remedies for the identified deficits and supervise their implementation. we also respond to detected
misconduct with employment-law disciplinary sanctions. osram has established a process regulating the
handling of compliance violations to ensure appropriate disciplinary consequences. an essential part of this
process is the foundation of the corporate disciplinary committee (subsequently cdc). by using defined
standards and uniform criteria for decision-making, the cdc ensures the right to a fair procedure treating all
employees equally.

please see our > annual report 2014, “compliance”, p. 87 et seq. (150 et seq. in whole pdf) and
www.osram.com/compliance.




                                                        25

osram sustainability report 2014



aspect: compliance
g4-so3
total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks
identified.
all our entities are covered by our compliance risk assessment (cra). based on a risk classification of our
entities several on-site cras are conducted throughout the year. the regular compliance risk assessment (cra)
exists of three elements: compliance system, antitrust exposure assessment, anti-corruption exposure
assessment. additionally ad hoc risk assessments are run for specific business topics. all findings during such
assessments will be addressed and remediated immediately. the compliance framework is also part of the regular
audit approach. audits/ are performed regularly by our corporate audit/ric-team (ric = risk and internal
controls).

g4-so4
communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures.
our bcgs are available to all employees and interested public in the internet (www.osram.com/bcg).

we offer compliance in-person-trainings and web-based trainings. a basic in-person training with ground rules
on anticorruption and antitrust law is a mandatory requirement for every new employee in a sensitive
function. specific in-person trainings need to be attended by individual groups of employees. we offer web-
based trainings, which aims to provide participants with an overview of global anti-corruption and competition
laws, as well as to create awareness of the corresponding, specific responsibilities of every osram employee.
those mandatory trainings can be assessed and completed via the osram learning management system.
beside the training concept, a compliance communication plan is roll-out out for all entities containing measures
such as brochures, posters or other means of communication.

g4-so5
confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken.
in fiscal 2014, the compliance organization received a total of 71 notifications of possible compliance violations
(previous year: 64 notifications).
in all, 15 compliance investigations were carried out (previous year: 17), following which disciplinary steps were
taken against 9 employees (previous year: 11 employees). in addition, a further 71 previous notifications (previous
year: 62 notifications) were brought to a close following investigation.

to enable us to detect and react appropriately to violations of existing compliance regulations, all employees and
external contacts may use the “tell osram” whistleblower hotline to pass on information about potential violations
to our compliance department.




                                                        26

osram sustainability report 2014



sub-category: product responsibility (pr)
g4-dma pr
disclosures on management approach for product responsibility
please refer to the dma guidance for the aspect “materials”.

aspect: customer health and safety
g4-pr1
percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for
improvement.
please see our corporate website www.osram.com/lca and our > annual report 2014, section "product
responsibility", p. 92 (155 in whole pdf).

we conducted life cycle analyses for certain typical products, in order to evaluate the impact of osram products.
the methodology used for these analyses was based on the international iso 14040 and iso 14044 standards.

aspect: product and service labeling
aspect-specific dma guidance for product and service labeling
osram's success is closely linked to the satisfaction of our customers. our sales function represents osram’s
face to the customer. global sales management is centralized, whereas implementation takes place at local
level. this positioning allows us to meet our customers’ varied demands, leverage the full potential of our
brands, and react flexibly to market developments.

we use numerous measures to improve sales efficiency. for example, we have a digital crm (customer
relationship management) system, which optimizes the customer service provided to oems and project
business customers in particular. in addition, we held numerous training sessions for our employees and
customers to inform them about the shift in the lighting market, familiarize them with our products, and thus
foster their long-term loyalty to osram.

we have also established a global key account management team for our customer relations. in addition,
members of the managing board are in direct two-way contact with our customers to understand their
requirements even better.

please see www.osram.com/crm

g4-pr5
results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction.
our relationships with many of our customers go back many years, and we use our key account management
system to systematically and continuously maintain them. osram uses the net promoter score (nps), to
measure customer satisfaction with our sales performance. based on an annual survey of a representative group
of customers, it reveals how likely customers are to recommend osram as a supplier to other companies. in
fiscal 2014, we successfully maintained our nps results compared with our competitors at the same high level as
in previous years.

please see our > annual report 2014, “customer relationships and sales”, p. 90 et. seq. (153 in whole pdf).




                                                        27

osram sustainability report 2014



iii. gri content index 2014
our gri index is based on version g4 “core” of the international guidelines published by the global reporting
initiative. the table of contents below provides an overview of the reported categories.
unless stated otherwise the information and numbers in this document refer to fiscal 2014. the osram
licht group’s fiscal year began on october 1, 2013, and ended on september 30, 2014.


general standard disclosures
indicator      description                                                                            page
                                                                                                      number
strategy and analysis
g4-1           statement from the most senior decision-maker                                            03

organizational profile
g4-3             name of the organization                                                               03
g4-4             primary brands, products, and services                                                 03
g4-5             location of the organization’s headquarters                                            03
g4-6             number and names of countries with significant operations                              04
g4-7             nature of ownership and legal form                                                     04
g4-8             markets served                                                                         04
g4-9             scale of the organization                                                              05
g4-10            employee breakdown                                                                     06
g4-11            percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements              06
g4-12            organization’s supply chain                                                            07
g4-13            significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size,     07
                 structure, ownership, or its supply chain
g4-14            precautionary approach or principle                                                    08
g4-15            externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or       09
                 other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses
g4-16            list memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or       09
                 international advocacy

identified material aspects and boundaries
g4-17            list of entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements      10
g4-18            process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries and how the          10
                 organization has implemented the reporting principles for defining report content
g4-19            material aspects identified in the process for defining report content               10-11
g4-20            aspect boundary within the organization for each material aspect                     10-11
g4-21            aspect boundary outside the organization for each material aspect                    10-11
g4-22            restatements of information provided in previous reports                               12
g4-23            significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect            12
                 boundaries



                                                       28

osram sustainability report 2014



stakeholder engagement
g4-24          list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization                                12
g4-25            basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage          12
g4-26            organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement                                   13
g4-27            key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement        13


report profile
g4-28            reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided         13
g4-29            date of most recent previous report                                                 13
g4-30            reporting cycle                                                                     13
g4-31            contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents                    14
g4-32            ‘in accordance’ option                                                              14
g4-33            external assurance for the report                                                   14


governance
g4-34            governance structure of the organization                                            14

ethics and integrity
g4-56            organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior                  15



specific standard disclosure
disclosures on description                                                                         page
management                                                                                         number
approach (dma)
and indicators

category: economic (ec)
g4-dma ec      disclosures on management approach for economic                                       16
material aspect: economic performance
g4-ec1           direct economic value generated and distributed                                     16
g4-ec2           financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's   16-17
                 activities due to climate change
indicators added innovation management, quality                                                      17
by osram

category: environmental (en)
g4-dma en       disclosures on management approach for environmental                               17-18
material aspect: materials
g4-dma           aspect-specific dma guidance for materials                                          18
g4-en2           percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials                      18




                                                       29

osram sustainability report 2014



material aspect: energy
g4-dma        aspect-specific dma guidance for energy                                                  19
g4-en3          energy consumption within the organization                                             19
g4-en6          reduction of energy consumption                                                        19

material aspect: water
g4-dma        aspect-specific dma guidance for water                                                   19
g4-en10         percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused                               19

material aspect: emissions
g4-dma        aspect-specific dma guidance for emissions                                               20
g4-en15         direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 1)                                        20
g4-en16         energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 2)                               20
g4-en19         reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions                                            20

material aspect: effluents and waste
g4-dma        aspect-specific dma guidance for effluents and waste                                     20
g4-en23         total weight of waste by type and disposal method                                      20

material aspect: products and services
g4-dma        aspect-specific dma guidance for products and services                                   20
g4-en27         extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services          21
g4-en28         percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by        21
                category
material aspect: supplier environmental assessment
g4-en32       percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria              21

category: social
sub-category: labor practices and decent work (la)
g4-dma la     disclosures on management approach for labor practices and decent work (la)              22

material aspect: occupational health and safety
g4-la6        type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism,   23
              and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender

material aspect: supplier assessment for labor practices
g4-la14       percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria            24

sub-category: human rights (hr)
g4-dma hr     disclosures on management approach for human rights (hr)                                 24

material aspect: supplier human rights assessment
g4-hr10       percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria            24
g4-hr11         significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain     25
                and actions taken

sub-category: society (so)
g4-dma so     disclosures on management approach for society                                           25


                                                       30

osram sustainability report 2014



material aspect: compliance
g4-so3        total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption     26
g4-so4        and  the significant
              communication     andrisks  identified
                                      training on anti-corruption policies and procedures            26
g4-so5         confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken                                   26

sub-category: product responsibility (pr)
g4-dma pr     disclosures on management approach for product responsibility (pr)                     27
material aspect: customer health and safety
g4-pr1        percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety   27
              impacts are assessed for improvement

material aspect: product and service labeling
g4-dma        aspect-specific dma guidance for product and service labeling                          27
g4-pr5         results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction                                    27




                                                     31

osram sustainability report 2014



date: september 2015

contact sustainability
osram licht ag
corporate sustainability office
marcel-breuer-str. 6
80807 munich
germany
mail                     sustainability@osram.com
internet                 www.osram.com/sustainability


osram licht ag
germany supervisory board chairman: peter bauer
chairman of the managing directors: dr. olaf berlien
responsible acc. to german interstate broadcasting agreement (§ 55 para. 2): jan-peter schwartz
head offices: munich
commercial register, munich registration court: hrb 201526
tax id number: de 811148275




                                                        32
