2009 corporate responsibility and sustainability report




pg&e’s sustainability journey
working collaboratively
to find the right balance for
a more sustainable future
a summary




                             full report online: www.pgecorp.com

letter from the chairman and ceo


to our stakeholders:
pg&e has undergone a remarkable evolution in
the past five years as we’ve pursued our vision
to become the nation’s leading utility. but one of
the most profound changes over this time has
been the richer understanding of—and deeper
commitment to—sustainability that has come
into focus as we have refined our views of what
it means to be a leader.
today, as a result, we are increasingly adapting
pg&e’s strategies, operations and culture to
drive positive results across what sustainability
experts call the triple bottom line, expressed
as “people. planet. profit.”
this commitment to managing our total impact as an enterprise is stronger
than ever at pg&e. indeed, many of the most important opportunities to grow
our company lie in solving key sustainability challenges—a reality that is
making sustainability a competitive imperative in our industry. we also know
that it is what our stakeholders expect from a leading company.
this summary corporate responsibility and sustainability report provides
examples of our sustainability commitment across a broad range of key areas,
from health and safety to environmental performance, diversity and inclusion,
and community involvement.
we appreciate your ongoing interest in pg&e and invite you to learn more at
www.pgecorp.com. as always, we welcome your feedback.
sincerely,




peter a. darbee
chairman of the board, ceo and president
pg&e corporation




2

company overview
pg&e corporation is the parent corporation for pacific gas and electric
company, which provides safe, reliable and environmentally responsible
gas and electric service to approximately 15 million people throughout
northern and central california. pg&e corporation had approximately
$42.9 billion in assets as of december 31, 2009, and generated revenues
of approximately $13.4 billion in 2009.

headquarters location                                          employees
san francisco, ca                                              approximately 19,425, including
                                                               about 12,650 employees covered
service area                                                   by collective bargaining agreements
70,000 square miles in northern                                with three labor unions:
and central california
                                                               n ibew, local 1245

service area population                                        n esc/ifpte, local 20

15 million people                                              n seiu, local 24/7


electric distribution                                          system
customer accounts                                              159,829 circuit miles of electric
5.1 million                                                    transmission and distribution
natural gas distribution                                       lines and 48,580 miles of natural
customer accounts                                              gas transmission and distribution
4.3 million                                                    pipelines; approximately 6,870
                                                               megawatts (mw) of generation,
                                                               including the diablo canyon nuclear
                                                               power plant and one of the largest
                                                               hydroelectric systems in the country.



pg&e’s 2009 electric power mix delivered
to retail customers*
                                                                                         natural gas: 34.6%
                                                                                         nuclear: 20.5%
                                                                                         eligible renewable: 14.4%
                                                                                         large hydroelectric: 13.0%
                                                                                         coal: 1.3%
                                                                                         unspecified sources: 15.0%
pg&e’s 2009 total eligible                                                               other fossil: 1.2%
renewable resources**
    biomass and waste: 30.1%
    geothermal: 29.7%
    wind: 22.3%
    small hydroelectric: 17.8%
    solar: 0.2%

* “unspecified sources” refers to electricity generated that is not traceable to specific generation sources by any
auditable contract trail and “other fossil” includes diesel oil and petroleum coke (a waste byproduct of oil refining).
** as defined in senate bill 1078, which created california’s renewable portfolio standard, an eligible renewable
resource includes geothermal facilities, hydroelectric facilities with a capacity rating of 30 mw or less, biomass
facilities, selected municipal solid waste facilities, solar facilities and wind facilities.

                                                                                                                          3

sustainability at pg&e




for pg&e, sustainability is more than the sum of caring for our
environment, doing right by our employees, serving our customers
and communities and delivering for our shareholders. “sustainability”
reflects the reality that pg&e’s environmental and business challenges
are increasingly intertwined, and that we can optimize our success by
developing integrated and balanced solutions to these challenges. it
guides how we approach our decision-making across the company.


pg&e’s sustainability journey
examples of sustainability in action can be found throughout our 100-year history.
this heritage gives us a solid foundation for much of the work we are doing today,
and it inspires us to build on the legacy created by previous generations at pg&e.

protecting watershed lands
in the early 1900s, pg&e began acquiring
watershed lands surrounding our hydro-
electric facilities to protect the dams,
reservoirs and flumes from increased
sedimentation. protecting these lands
has helped pg&e operate the facilities
cost-effectively, while enabling property
tax revenues for rural communities and
recreational opportunities for the public.

investing in renewable energy
in the late 1950s, utilities responded to
the nation’s growing demand for electric-
ity. unlike any other u.s. utility at that
time, pg&e began developing a power
plant fueled by a renewable resource—
geothermal steam. today, the geysers
is one of the nation’s largest geo­
thermal energy complexes, and we
continue to purchase energy from the
geysers to serve our customers.
4

  pg&e is working to more fully
  integrate sustainability into our
  business, from both a governance
  and strategic perspective. we
  created a new position, chief
  sustainability officer, which
  reports to the chairman and ceo
  of pg&e corporation. the chief
  sustainability officer is responsible
  for developing and coordinating the
  company’s sustainability strategy
  and initiatives and overseeing            leadership is premised on achieving
  pg&e’s sustainability reporting           four goals, namely delighted
  and measurement programs.                 customers, energized employees,
                                            rewarded shareholders and
  for the first time, we also set a         environmental leadership. taken
  specific target—december 31,              together, these four goals comprise
  2014—for realizing our vision of          pg&e’s integrated approach to
  becoming the leading utility in the       sustainability and reflect the triple
  united states. our vision of industry     bottom line concept.




leveraging a new business model
in the early 1980s, california intro­
duced “decoupling”—a regulatory
framework that breaks the link
between energy sales and earnings
for the state’s investor-owned utilities,
including pg&e. because pg&e is
not incentivized to sell more in order
to earn more, decoupling has helped
spur decades of energy efficiency
programs that help customers use
less energy and save money.

investing in a smarter energy grid
today, pg&e is investing billions
of dollars to help build the smart
grid—essential infrastructure that
will help america to shift to a low
carbon economy. from assisting
customers with managing their
energy use to enabling electric vehicle
“smart charging,” the smart grid is a
central element of a more sustainable
energy system and future.


                                                                                    5

our business in 2009
                                                                  pg&e is working
                                                                  with customers
                                                                  and leading
                                                                  organizations to
                                                                  prepare for the
                                                                  integration of
                                                                  electric vehicles
                                                                  into the power grid.




pg&e is making major investments to power california now and into the
future. today, we see an abundance of innovation—driven by changing
economics, advancing technology and new sensibilities that demand
sustainable energy solutions. yet while the future requires bold thinking
and fresh perspectives, these must always be rooted in solid values,
sound operations, sensible governance and strong relationships with
our customers. in 2009, we made the following progress:
n 		   invested more than $3 billion to improve the reliability of our gas and
       electrical systems and to meet customer needs. we also opened a state-of-
       the-art “green” grid control center to monitor and control more than 18,000
       miles of high voltage conductors.
n 		   brought our 600 mw gateway generating station into service, which is 35
       percent more fuel-efficient and uses 97 percent less water than a traditional
       gas-fired plant.
n 		   began the multiyear regulatory process to renew the licenses for our diablo
       canyon nuclear power plant to ensure its ongoing safe, reliable and virtually
       carbon-free operation.
n   		achieved solid financial results and a total shareholder return (stock price
      appreciation plus dividends) of 20 percent.



                                              pg&e continues to lay the
                                              groundwork for a smart grid,
                                              beginning with the phased-in
                                              deployment of 10 million gas and
                                              electric meters equipped with
                                              smartmeter™ technology and our
                                              active collaboration to develop the
                                              underlying standards, systems and
                                              technologies.



6

our employees in 2009
                                                                together, pg&e
                                                                and the ibew union
                                                                are spearheading
                                                                pg&e's pioneering
                                                                use of helicopters
                                                                to enhance reli-
                                                                ability—engaging
                                                                employees, reducing
                                                                environmental
                                                                impacts and making
                                                                business operations
                                                                more efficient.




our most vital investment for future success is the investment we make
in our employees. that’s why we focus on recruiting the best people
and creating a culture that fosters employee health and well-being,
welcomes and cultivates diversity, engages employees in continued
growth and learning, emphasizes connections with our communities and is
sustainable over time. we achieved several important milestones last year:
n 		   continued to promote safety on a grassroots level with employee-led safety
       teams working together to create effective safety solutions that prevent
       injuries and result in safer work environments.
n 		   graduated our first powerpathway™ class made up entirely of veterans of the
       wars in afghanistan and iraq. pg&e’s powerpathway™ program continues to
       help california produce the skilled workers needed by the energy industry.
n 		   engaged more than 1,200 employees on over 100 teams in “active for life,”
       a 10-week wellness program with the american cancer society, as part of
       pg&e’s enhanced effort to help employees make healthier choices.
n   		continued to engage employees through awards that recognize employee
      leadership in diversity, safety, volunteerism and the environment.




                                            pg&e’s employee resource groups
                                            represent 3,000 employees, or
                                            15 percent of our workforce, and
                                            continue to foster a culture of
                                            diversity and inclusion both within
                                            and outside of the company. the
                                            groups give employees opportunities
                                            to grow through enhanced leader-
                                            ship skills, cultural awareness, net-
                                            working and community outreach.


                                                                                    7

our communities in 2009
                                                                   pg&e’s energy
                                                                   training center
                                                                   in stockton
                                                                   has provided
                                                                   energy efficiency
                                                                   workforce training
                                                                   for more than
                                                                   30 years.




healthy, vibrant communities are critical to the long-term success
of our state and our company. we are focused on building strong and
enduring ties with local partners to help preserve and expand vital
services, foster diversity, provide economic opportunities, enrich
cultural life and help underserved populations. in 2009, we took a
number of steps to make a difference:
n 		   donated $19.2 million to charitable organizations, representing 1.1 percent
       of our pre-tax earnings from operations and the largest amount in pg&e’s
       history. most of our contributions addressed the needs of low-income,
       minority and other underserved communities.
n 		   raised $4.65 million (an 11 percent increase over the prior year) in employee
       and retiree pledges through our annual campaign for the community,
       benefiting more than 4,300 schools and non-profit organizations.
n 		   enrolled more than 466,000 additional customers in pg&e’s care program, which
       provides a monthly discount on energy bills for income-qualified households.
n 		   achieved our best performance to date for spending on diverse suppliers,
       totaling 25.6 percent of our total spending, or more than $928 million.
n 		   expanded our partnership with habitat for humanity—covering the full
       cost of solar power installations on 80 habitat-built homes, part of our
       $3.2 million commitment since 2005.

                                              on earth day, more than 1,300 pg&e
                                              volunteers—employees, retirees and
                                              their families and friends—planted
                                              trees, repaired nature trails, pulled
                                              invasive plants and removed litter in
                                              partnership with the california state
                                              parks foundation. pg&e has joined
                                              forces with the foundation on earth
                                              day for nine consecutive years.



8

our environment in 2009
                                                                                 pg&e is working
                                                                                 collaboratively to
                                                                                 pursue new sources
                                                                                 of wind, solar and
                                                                                 other renewable
                                                                                 resources while
                                                                                 protecting sensitive
                                                                                 habitat and species.




we see a great necessity to find sustainable ways to produce, deliver and
use energy in a world of carbon constraints, limits on freshwater resources
and the continuing need to protect sensitive habitats and endangered species.
these challenges are demanding that we think and work in new ways—all
while continuing to fulfill our core compliance obligations. we worked to
meet our goal of environmental leadership in many ways last year:
n 		   signed new contracts for more than 4,160 mw of additional renewable energy
       supplies. pg&e now holds commitments that will enable us to provide more
       than 20 percent of our future power deliveries from renewables.
n 		   finalized our second “safe harbor” agreement with the u.s. fish and wildlife
       service, enabling pg&e crews to safely maintain and operate important
       transmission lines while enhancing habitat for three species found nowhere
       else in the world.
n 		   interconnected more than 9,200 customer-owned solar power systems to
       the electric grid. in total, pg&e has connected more than 40,000 customer-
       owned solar systems, far more than any other utility in the nation.
n 		   invested in five new greenhouse gas emission reduction projects through the
       climatesmart™ program, a voluntary carbon offset program we offer our customers.
n 		   continued to collaborate with suppliers, non-profits and other utilities to
       reduce the environmental impact of our supply chain.

   benchmarking greenhouse gas emissions for delivered electricity
   (pounds of co2 per mwh)
         u.s. average                  pacific gas and electric company
         california's average

   1,500
              1,329
   1,200                                                                         pg&e delivers
                                                                                 some of the nation’s
       900                                                                       cleanest energy,
                        724
                                620                                 636   641
       600                               566
                                                  489                            with a carbon
                                                           456
                                                                                 dioxide emissions
       300
                                                                                 rate that is about
         0                                                                       half the national
                                2003    2004     2005     2006     2007   2008
                                                                                 average for utilities.
                                                                                                     9

     industry-wide challenges              as we work to address them, we
                                           believe we will be more successful
     we recognize that we are entering     if we do so in a manner that pro-
     a new chapter in our sustainability   actively engages our stakeholders,
     journey at a time of significant      integrates and optimizes across our
     challenges. some of these             business and continuously asks if
     challenges are specific to our        what we are doing today will position
     company, while others impact our      us well for tomorrow and beyond.
     broader industry and economy.
                                           key challenges include:
                                           n   assisting customers through
                                               the economic crisis
                                           		transitioning to a low-carbon
                                           n

                                             economy
                                           n   	expanding supplies of
                                                renewable energy
                                           		investing in our nation’s energy
                                           n

                                              infrastructure
                                           n   	planning for the skilled workforce
                                                our industry needs

 photo: lewis stewart




 we are spearheading the investment of more than $1.3 billion over the next
 three years to help customers use less energy—implementing a diverse
 array of energy efficiency programs, services and campaigns.

10

examples of recognition for sustainability
in 2009
california business volunteer                human rights campaign
program of the year award                    corporate equality award and perfect
                                             score on corporate equality index
carbon disclosure project
carbon disclosure leadership index           newsweek magazine
                                             number one ranked utility on list of
corporate responsibility officer             greenest big companies in america
magazine
ranked 28 on annual list of 100 best         out & equal
corporate citizens                           2009 signs of courage advocacy award

diversityinc                                 platts global energy awards
among top 5 regional utilities for           energy efficiency program of the year
diversity and top 10 companies for
supplier diversity                           solar electric power association
                                             top ten utility solar integration
dow jones sustainability world               rankings
and north america indexes
                                             u.s. environmental protection agency
                                             energy star® sustained
global 100 most sustainable                  excellence award
corporations in the world
                                             ventana wildlife society
global green sustainable                     frank j. lichtanski award
design awards
corporate design award




pg&e continues to be committed to reducing the greenhouse gas footprint of our fleet.
last year, we helped design and deploy the nation’s first all-electric bucket truck—just
one of many innovative alternative fuel and high-efficiency vehicle designs that we will
be adding to our fleet over the coming years.

                                                                                     11

full report online: www.pgecorp.com




        printed on recycled paper containing
            100% post-consumer waste.

                                               this document was printed on demand to
                                               ensure we print only as many as we need.
