responsible
 behaviour
corporate social responsibility report 2016/17

we deliver health.
each and every day. across europe.




>       the phoenix group is a leading pharmaceutical trader in europe, reliably supplying people
with drugs and medical products every day. the phoenix group originated from the merger of
five regionally active pharmaceutical wholesale businesses in germany in 1994. today, the company
offers unique geographical coverage throughout europe, making a vital contribution to comprehensive
healthcare with around 34,000 employees. the phoenix group’s vision is to be the best integrated
healthcare provider – wherever it is active. this means that each customer group is provided with the
best possible services and products along the entire pharmaceutical supply chain.


>       in pharmaceutical wholesale, the phoenix group is active with 152 distribution centres in
26 european countries and supplies pharmacies and medical institutions with drugs and other health
products. numerous other products and services for pharmacy customers complete the portfolio –
from support with patient advice to modern goods management systems to pharmacy cooperation
programmes. with over 12,000 member pharmacies, phoenix pharmacy partnership is the umbrella
for our european network of 12 cooperation and partner programmes in 15 countries.


>       in pharmacy retail, the phoenix group operates more than 2,000 of its own pharmacies
in 13 countries – of which around 1,200 operate under the corporate brand benu. in addition to
norway, the united kingdom, the netherlands, and switzerland, the company is also represented in
the eastern european and baltic markets. more than 17,000 pharmacy employees have around
136 million customer contacts each year. they dispense more than 300 million drug packages to
patients and advise them on issues concerning pharmaceuticals and general health.


>       pharma services provides services along the entire supply chain. the “all-in-one” concept
stands for a comprehensive range of services that benefits drug manufacturers, pharmacies,
and patients. the phoenix group takes on the entire distribution process for the pharmaceutical
industry as desired and provides a first-class basis for decision-making with its business
intelligence solutions.

               responsible
                behaviour
                  there are many aspects to sustainability.
                 we take care to integrate these in all areas
                     of the company and are thus laying
                   the foundation for long-term success:
                from our carefully considered value creation
                  strategy to our respectful treatment of
                     people and the environment to our
                          responsibility to society.




contents

 2		 phoenix group in figures          20		 our responsibilities   56		 facts and figures

 3		link between manufacturer         20		 value creation         62		 gri g4 content index
     and patient
                                       30		environment             67		 glossary
 4		 letter from the executive board   40		employees               70 		 imprint
 6		executive board                   50		society
     of the phoenix group

 8		 about this report

 9		the phoenix group
     assumes responsibility

19		 csr highlights 2016/17

2   phoenix group in figures




    phoenix group
    in figures




    key figures of the phoenix group                                                   2012/13           2013/14 5)           2014/15           2015/16 6)        2016/17


    revenue                                                       in eur k        21,218,687          21,791,268         22,567,998          23,247,428        24,436,695
    total operating performance 1)                                in eur k        25,251,336          25,916,290         27,278,243          28,484,595        30,232,784
    total income 2)                                               in eur k          2,319,147          2,217,379           2,277,295          2,416,548         2,567,225
    profit before tax                                             in eur k            230,723 3)          143,092            361,278            318,985          242,514
    adjusted profit before tax 4)                                 in eur k            329,156             253,094            296,558            335,321          289,792
    equity                                                        in eur k          2,103,800          2,161,841           2,481,491          2,726,468         2,849,764
    equity ratio                                                        in %               28.7               29.4                32.1               35.1            33.1
    net debt                                                      in eur k          1,611,518          1,330,855           1,068,749          1,121,561         1,377,547
    company rating (standard & poor’s)                                                       bb                 bb                  bb               bb+             bb+
    employees (total)                                                                   28,698             28,555              28,922             29,745          34,145
    employees (full-time)                                                               23,932             23,850              24,153             24,842          26,611

    1)	total operating performance = revenue + handled volume (handling for service charge).
    2)	total income = gross income + other operating income (previous years 2010/11 up to 2012/13 adjusted due to changes in reporting).
    3)	adjusted due to the application of ias 19r.
    4)	adjusted for impairment losses on goodwill, effects resulting from the sale of financial assets, one-off effects related to the refinancing measures

       in 2012, expenditures associated with the phoenix forward optimisation programme, changes in pension schemes 2014/15 and 2015/16,
       mediq acquisition costs, and tax audits for previous years.
    5) adjusted due to the first-time application of ifrs 11.
    6) profit before tax, before non-recurring items adapted for comparison purposes.




    g4 -ec1


    economic value retained of the phoenix group                                                                              2014/15            2015/16          2016/17
    in eur k


    net turnover                                                                                                         22,567,998          23,247,428        24,436,695
    community investments 1)                                                                                                    2,031               1,729            913
    personnel expenses                                                                                                     1,034,353          1,158,714         1,289,161
    operating costs                                                                                                      21,119,765          21,725,836        22,844,496
    taxes and fees                                                                                                             73,364             95,031         118,082
    dividends and interest payments to investors                                                                               99,225             78,025          67,760
    economic value retained                                                                                                  239,260            188,063          116,284

    1) figures were adjusted due to a different booking assignment in germany.

                                                                                                                                     3




link between
manufacturer and patient




                                                          pharmaceutical
                                                             industry




                                 patient                                                 healthcare
                                                                                          logistics




                                         hospitals




                               doctors
                                               retail                          wholesale




wholesale                                       pharma services                              retail




>    as a wholesaler, the phoenix               >    phoenix pharma services                 >    in pharmacy retail, the
group ensures that the drugs and                offers a wide range of services along        phoenix group is responsible for
health products of pharmaceutical               the entire pharmaceutical supply             directly supplying the general public
manufacturers are delivered to                  chain. our business intelligence             with pharmaceuticals and health
pharmacies and medical institu-                 products also enable pharmaceutical          products. the comprehensive and
tions both quickly and reliably.                manufacturers to make the right              professional advice provided by our
the phoenix group also supports                 decisions and to focus their attention       pharmacy staff is of the highest
independent pharmacies in europe,               on the development and production            quality and is accompanied by the
offering various services to increase           of superior drugs. the phoenix               best possible customer service.
customer retention.                             group takes care of everything else.

4   letter from the executive board




    letter from the executive board




                          »responsible behaviour – as we advance along the
                          path towards sustainable growth, we are guided by
                            this principle in all divisions of the company, in
                          all of the countries in which we operate, and along
                                        our entire supply chain.«

                        dear readers,
                        for our fifth sustainability report, we have focused on the theme of “responsible behaviour”. as we
                        advance along the path towards sustainable growth, we are guided by this principle in all divisions of
                        the company, in all of the countries in which we operate, and along our entire supply chain.

                        progress and challenges in achieving csr goals
                        in the fiscal year 2016/17, we worked intensively to realise our csr goals and enjoyed much success
                        across the group. we have made considerable progress in lowering the costs associated with
                        pharmaceutical waste, achieving a further 5 per cent to 8.2 per cent decrease in the reporting period
                        when compared with the reference year 2014/15. as a result, we are conserving natural resources and
                        significantly reducing the financial burden on our company. this means that we are well on our way to
                        achieving our company-wide goal of cutting the cost of pharmaceutical waste by 10 per cent by
                        2018/19. our second core objective relating to our employees is to reduce the illness rate by 1 per cent.
                        as a result of our occupational health management system, we have recorded an improvement of 0.35
                        percentage points in comparison with the reference year. however, even more comprehensive efforts
                        are needed if we are to achieve our goal.

                        last year our csr activities also focused on data protection and compliance. in the field of data protec-
                        tion, an online training tool has been introduced in germany and used to gradually train our employees
                        since the start of 2017. in order to fulfil the requirements of the european general data protection
                        regulation, which comes into effect in may 2018, we are planning corresponding online training across
                        the group for the fiscal year 2018/19. due to focussing on providing training in the compliance guide-
                        lines, we achieved the objective of training 100 per cent of employees within the focus group.

                                                                                              letter from the executive board   5




introduction of a supplier code and guidance document for donations and sponsorships
for the first time, we have established a supplier code for the purchase of indirect and trading goods.
this will allow us to improve the integration of sustainability criteria in our strategic procurement pro-
cesses and thus take on more responsibility along our supply chain, in cooperation with our partners.
the new donation and sponsorship guidance document will help us to act even more responsibly
across national boundaries as we play an active role in society. after all, we aim to use our skills and
resources to make a positive contribution to the common good, beyond the scope of our core business.




       »the independence as a family business
          allows the phoenix group to pursue
    long-term strategies in order to grow profitably.«


sustainability integrated in all corporate processes
as a family business, we make decisions independently and pursue a long-term strategy in order to
grow profitably through organic increases in revenue and targeted acquisitions. we make sure that
our sustainability management policy always translates into our corporate acquisitions. most recently,
this can be seen in the takeover of mediq apotheken nederland b.v. – one of the largest in the history
of our company. it is therefore very important to us that we actively communicate our csr activities.
in the current year, we want to make our employees even more aware of – and passionate about –
sustainability issues. this is the only way we can work together to achieve our csr goals and succeed
in growing sustainably as a company.




oliver windholz            helmut fischer             frank große-natrop              stefan herfeld
chief executive officer

6   executive board of the phoenix group




    executive board of the
    phoenix group




    »it is our aim to grow sustainably –
    in all divisions of the company,
    in all of the countries in which
    we operate, and along our entire
    supply chain.«

    oliver windholz
    chief executive officer




    »sustainability is a major
    consideration in our day-to-day
    decisions in retail. for example,
    there is a strong focus on waste
    prevention in pharmacies and
    energy efficiency in shopfitting.«

    stefan herfeld
    retail

  executive board of the phoenix group   7




»the inclusion of data pro-
tection goals in our csr target
programme reinforces the
central importance of this
issue for the phoenix group.«

helmut fischer
finance




»our warehouse excellence
initiative combines efficiency
improvements with environmental
impacts. it’s a win-win situation.«

frank große-natrop
operations/logistics

8   about this report




    about this report




                                this report provides information about the phoenix group’s sustainability
                                activities and relates to the fiscal year 2016/17. in its reporting, the company
                                is guided by the recommendations of the global reporting initiative (gri g4)
                                and the “core” option.


                                reporting principles
      g4 -13, g4 -17, g4 -22,   the phoenix group publishes one sustainability report per year. this report relates to the fiscal year
      g4 -23, g4 -28, g4 -29,   from 1 february 2016 to 31 january 2017 and thus builds on the corporate social responsibility report
      g4 -30, g4 -32, g4 -33    2015/16. it describes the development and the results of the phoenix group’s csr activities and
                                includes the key performance indicators (kpis) from all of the subsidiaries and their domestic affiliates
                                for the third time running. all of the key figures can therefore be shown in a three-year comparison
                                for the first time. the report also features company-specific indicators that are significant to the distri-
                                bution of pharmaceuticals. through the use of examples, the report shows how the phoenix group
                                has played a positive role in the progress made and how it has avoided or reduced negative impact.

              g4 -20, g4 -21    the phoenix group’s materiality analysis was used to select the most important topics with the most
                                relevance for the stakeholders. these topics are based on the analysis of the environmental, social, and
                                economic consequences that arise both inside and outside the phoenix group. the sustainability
                                report thus covers both areas, such that the only co2 emissions originating outside the phoenix group
                                – contained in scope 3 – stem from transport activities by subcontractors.

                                structure of the report
                                this sustainability report is divided into the same four core sections that are used to describe the
                                phoenix group’s areas of responsibility:


                                ° value creation           ° environment              ° employees             ° society
                                in the ”phoenix group assumes responsibility” section, the report explains how the processes are con-
                                trolled and integrated within the company. the “facts and figures” chapter presents the consolidated
                                performance indicators compared with the two previous years and provides information on the compa-
                                ny’s progress. the gri index at the end of the report summarises the essential aspects and indicators.

                                key definitions
              g4 -22, g4 -23    the term phoenix group refers to the entire phoenix group as depicted in the annual report. in
                                the reporting period, the company has grown through the following significant acquisitions: mediq
                                apotheken nederland b.v. in the netherlands, the pharmaceutical wholesaler farmegra d.o.o., and
                                the national pharmacy chain apoteke lijek pzu in montenegro, as well as the hungarian company
                                novodata zrt., a provider in the goods management and till systems sector. in relation to the
                                environment, the key figures do not include data on the retail business; any deviations from the report
                                boundaries for other key figures are indicated in the corresponding footnotes and in the gri index.
                                countries are categorised by region. the terms csr (corporate social responsibility) and sustainability
                                are used interchangeably in the report, as they are internally, and refer to responsible management in
                                the three aspects of economy, environment, and society. rounding has been made in the tables shown.
                                the totals do not always add up exactly.

                                                                                    the phoenix group assumes responsibility               9




the phoenix group
assumes responsibility



sustainable company management
in all business units

° market  leader in european pharmaceutical wholesale

° strong  sense of responsibility in the supply chain

° key sustainability topics underpinned by clear objectives

° effective csr management established internationally

° leading in pharmacy retail in continental europe
profile of the phoenix group
the phoenix group, headquartered in mannheim, germany, is a leading company in european pharma-             g4 -3, g4 -4, g4 -5, g4 -6,
ceutical distribution and one of the largest family businesses in both germany and europe. its core         g4 -8, g4 -9, g4 -10, g4 -17

business is pharmaceutical wholesale and pharmacy retail. subsidiaries also operate in related
business areas, and their activities complement the range of services available to the pharmaceutical
industry, pharmacy it systems, and logistic solutions. with more than 34,100 employees, the company         further information

makes a vital contribution to comprehensive healthcare.                                                     can be found on the
                                                                                                            introductory pages and in
                                                                                                            the current annual report
the phoenix group operates in 26 european countries. as at the end of the reporting year, the
                                                                                                            on page 39 ff.
phoenix group was operating 152 distribution centres and a total of 2,059 pharmacies under the
benu, apotek 1 and rowlands pharmacy brands as part of its core business. it therefore has a wide
geographic portfolio. as the group’s largest market, germany makes up around one-third of group
revenue, amounting to approximately €24.4 billion in the fiscal year 2016/17.

in pharmaceutical wholesale, the phoenix group is number one in twelve countries and market
leader in pharmacy retail in continental europe. it operates its pharmacy retail business mainly in the
united kingdom, norway, the netherlands, switzerland, hungary, the czech republic, slovakia, serbia,
montenegro and the baltic states. moreover, it offers its expertise as a logistical service provider with
the service brand all-in-one to companies in the pharmaceutical industry. its strong brand portfolio sets
it apart in this respect.

corporate mission statement defines values
the corporate mission statement of the phoenix group plays a key role in our daily activities. it makes     g4 -56
the phoenix corporate philosophy, vision, mission, strategy, and values transparent. as a family
business, we are independent in our decision-making and pursue a long-term strategy. our vision of
being the best integrated healthcare provider – wherever we are – can only be achieved with motivated       further information:
and loyal employees. their day-to-day work contributes to the overall success of the phoenix group,         https://www.phoenixgroup.eu/en/

allowing us to fulfil our responsibilities, both now and in the future.                                     company/corporate-philosophy/



sustainable standards in purchasing and the supply chain
the phoenix group takes the whole supply chain into consideration in its approach to corporate              g4 -12, g4 -14, g4 -57
responsibility. it focusses on its role as the link between manufacturer and patient and thus ensures a
reliable supply of drugs and medical products. at the same time, we also take into consideration our
relationship with direct suppliers, who provide key products and services for our corporate processes.

10   the phoenix group assumes responsibility




     phoenix with a presence in wholesale and retail                                  wholesale

                                                                                      albania, austria, bosnia
       wholesale and retail (in 13 countries)
                                                                                      and herzegovina, bulgaria,
       wholesale (in 26 countries)
                                                                                      croatia, czech republic,
                                                                                      france, germany, hungary,
                                                                                      kosovo, macedonia, norway,
                                                                                      poland, serbia, slovakia,
                                                                                      united kingdom




                                                                                      estonia, latvia, lithuania,
                                                                                      finland, sweden




                                                                                      denmark
                                                   sweden

                                                                        finland

                                    norway

                                                                        estonia       italy


                                                                         latvia
                              denmark                              lithuania
      united
     kingdom
                                                                                      switzerland
                netherlands
                                                         poland
                                germany


                                            czech republic

          france                                       slovakia                       netherlands
                      switzerland           austria
                                                         hungary

                                                   croatia
                                                bosnia and     serbia
                                                herzegovina
                                    italy
                                                               kosovo      bulgaria
                                                  montenegro
                                                                   macedonia
                                                         albania
                                                                                      retail

                                                                                      norway




                                                                                      united kingdom




                                                                                      czech republic, estonia,
                                                                                      hungary, italy, latvia,
                                                                                      lithuania, netherlands,
                                                                                      serbia, slovakia, switzerland

                                                   the phoenix group assumes responsibility   11




pharmacy cooperation programmes




estonia                       latvia                    united kingdom




germany                           czech republic        slovakia




austria                           hungary               france




croatia                           italy                 bosnia and herzegovina, bulgaria,
                                                        macedonia, serbia

12    the phoenix group assumes responsibility




                                  in germany, phoenix pharma-einkauf gmbh (ppe) is responsible for the procurement of trading
                                  goods. in terms of general procurement, ppe also manages the group-wide purchasing of non-trading
                                  goods, such as capital goods and services, on behalf of the phoenix group and its subsidiaries. mate-
                                  rial groups covering transport, maintenance and facility management services, materials handling, it
                                  infrastructure, energy, and vehicles make up the highest procurement volumes in this respect.

                                  we maintain trusting and cooperative relationships with our suppliers. our supply contracts ensure that
                                  our exacting standards are met in terms of price, quality, and availability. furthermore, our contracts
                                  increasingly include business ethics clauses, which in some instances are even more far-reaching than
        see glossary, page 68.    the provisions of the authoritative foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa). with regard to those suppliers
                                  who are partners within our framework agreement, annual reviews take place on an ongoing basis and
                                  focus on quality assurance as well as implementation of innovations. where necessary or required by
                                  law, we also carry out supplier audits.

                                  in 2017, the phoenix group implemented the recommendations of a group-wide working group and
                                  incorporated a series of sustainability criteria into its strategic procurement processes. these include
                                  the adoption of the group’s own supplier code of conduct for the procurement of indirect goods
          the supplier code of    and trading goods. compliance with these guidelines will be an important decision-making tool in
     conduct can be viewed at:    awarding contracts to our suppliers and service providers. in the supplier code of conduct, we call for
       www.phoenixgroup.eu/       the recognition of the united nations’ universal declaration of human rights, which encompasses a
             en/responsibility/
                                  ban on child and forced labour and all forms of discrimination, as well as the right to observe regulated
        strategy-management/
                                  working hours and the right to freedom of association for the protection of workers’ rights. we strongly
                                  insist that our business partners also commit to ensure occupational health and safety for their
                                  employees, to combat corruption, to make continuous improvements to their environmental footprint,
                                  to guarantee data protection, and to observe relevant social, ethical, and environmental standards, as
                                  well as encourage the same from their suppliers. the phoenix group reserves the right to verify
                                  whether or not its suppliers are observing the supplier code of conduct.




                     g4 - hr12          the phoenix group protects human rights
                                        the phoenix group considers compliance           possible human rights violations can be repor-
                                        with human rights to be an important aspect of   ted by internal and external parties via the
                                        corporate social responsibility. we rigorously   international compliance whistle-blower sys-
                                        abide by the united nations’ universal decla-    tem. any such reports will be systematically
                                        ration of human rights and have also made        investigated. in the reporting year, there were
                                        it incumbent upon our partners along the         no reports of violations of this kind.
                                        entire supply chain that they follow our lead.

                                                                                    the phoenix group assumes responsibility          13




sustainability integrated in all levels of the company
for the phoenix group, corporate success and social responsibility go hand in hand. we have set our-         g4 -16
selves the goal of integrating sustainability-oriented principles in all quality management processes and
in our cooperation with customers, business partners, and employees. we plan to gradually extend this
process to all of our company’s subsidiaries. this also applies to newly acquired businesses, which we
include in all social and environmental sustainability objectives.

it is the internationalisation of our markets and varying conditions in the countries in particular that
represent a significant challenge in this regard – a challenge we are meeting with a management struc-
ture established across the group, a csr programme, and binding targets.

since the markets we operate in are partly very diverse, we continue to deal with most issues at a local
level in accordance with our slogan “think together global – act local”. it is all the more important that
we continue to intensify the cooperation between our subsidiaries, exchange best practices, and learn
from our colleagues at other sites. at the same time, we are pushing ahead with group-wide initiatives,
which are successful examples of the centralised coordination of sustainability issues, such as the
employee survey, phoenix pharmacy partnership, and the europe-wide talent management programme.

in view of our further development in the field of sustainability, we are also benefitting from external
expertise in our industry and are involved in working groups related to the european association girp        see glossary, page 68.
and in national associations on the spot.

four areas of responsibility linked to management approaches
our corporate mission statement forms the basis of our csr strategy. our work is carried out to the
highest possible quality standards, going beyond merely satisfying applicable laws and directives, and
is guided by keen cost awareness.

value added for customers and the company
in terms of value creation, our established management systems have encompassed comprehensive
quality management for a long time. this includes a regular assessment of customer satisfaction,
                                                                                                             see page 20 ff.
observing guidelines for good distribution practice (gdp), as well as complying with statutory regula-
                                                                                                             see glossary, page 68.
tions on handling medicines. we are already working intensively to prepare for the drug safety guide-
lines that will need to be observed in the future. other key areas of focus include abiding by compliance
guidelines and ensuring data protection across europe. in the past year, we launched phoenix
pharmacy partnership, the largest european network for pharmacy cooperation programmes, counting
more than 9,000 pharmacies in 15 countries with 12 local brands.                                             see page 11.


environmental protection
we are successfully pushing ahead with our measures to reduce pharmaceutical waste and are gradu-
ally edging closer to our objective. as a result, we are not only conserving natural resources, but also
significantly reducing costs for our company. in relation to all processes, we put an emphasis on            see page 30 ff.
high levels of energy efficiency and increase the use of renewable energies. the figures indicating our      see glossary, page 67.
greenhouse gas emissions show us the progress we have made with regard to climate protection –
and the opportunities for improvements. we particularly focus on modern, energy-efficient building
technology and future-oriented transport logistics, which will reduce fuel consumption and the associ-
ated co2 emissions.

14   the phoenix group assumes responsibility




                             supporting employees
                             our employees are the backbone of our success – and our most important resource. it is our aim to
                             create an attractive and secure work environment for all employees of the phoenix group. we are
           see page 40 ff.   investing in international programmes for further training, in talent development, and in occupational
                             health management, through which we aim to achieve a significant reduction in the illness rate. moreover,
                             we are using the results of our first company-wide employee survey to work together with our employ-
                             ees to implement improvement measures, which contribute towards strengthening our employer brand.
                             through various communication measures, we are also supporting the integration of mediq employees
                             into the phoenix group.

                             commitment to society
                             regarding our responsibility to society, we have been making long-term investments in charitable
                             projects all over the world and supplement this through funding local and regional activities in the vicinity
           see page 50 ff.   of our sites. we focus on measures relating to children’s health and on promoting scientific advances
                             in pharmaceutical research. in order to improve the coordination of these activities between countries
                             and to consolidate them, we introduced a donation and sponsorship guidance document during the
                             reporting year. this document will form the standard for the future activities of all companies within
                             the phoenix group.

                             group-wide csr targets
                             to derive the specific measures to be taken within these areas of responsibility, the phoenix group has
                             extended its group-wide targets in 2016/17:


                             target                                                          due                      status   comments


                             reduce costs of pharmaceutical waste
                             by 10% compared to 2014/15 1)                                   2018/19                           page 31 ff.
                             reduce group-wide sickness rate from
                             4.47% (2014/15) by 1 percentage point 2)                        2018/19                           page 48 f.
                             improve employee loyalty by implementing
                             a group-wide employee survey 2)                                 2015/16                           page 47
                             training of employees within the focus group
                             (approx. 10% of staff) on compliance guidelines                 2016/17                           page 18
                             training of employees on data
                             protection guidelines in germany                                2017/18                           page 28 f.
                             introduction of group-wide
                             data protection guidelines                                      05/2018                           page 28 f.
                             group-wide training of employees on
                             data protection, in particular on the new
                             european general data protection regulation                     2018/19                           page 28 f.

                             1) the target definition refers exclusively to the phoenix group wholesale business.
                             2) employee-related targets include the entire phoenix group.




                               target launched          on-going         target fulfilled      target not fulfilled

                                                                                                                                                  the phoenix group assumes responsibility                 15




        the phoenix group has defined company-wide targets within the four areas of responsibility and rein-
        forced these by means of concrete measures. an explanation of these targets and their current status
        is provided in the relevant chapters of this report. the group-wide csr system documents the degree to
        which the group targets are being met. furthermore, country-specific goals have been defined that are
        binding for the local companies, which have introduced appropriate measures to drive forward progress
        on achieving these goals. the achievement of these objectives will also be monitored at country level.

        materiality analysis establishes key action points
        corporate social responsibility (csr) has been an integral part of the phoenix group’s corporate pro-                                                                     g4 -18, g4 -19
        cesses since 2012. to select the most important sustainability issues, we use a materiality analysis
        that was conducted in 2015 on the basis of the gri g4 standard. the assessment took into account the
        expectations of internal and external stakeholders as well as the demands that the phoenix group
        places upon itself.



        materiality matrix of the phoenix group                                                                                                                                   g4 -19



                                              high
                                                                                                                                       adherence to quality standards/
                                                                                                                                                                                high
                                                                                                                                       comprehensive availability of
                                        4.7                                                                                            pharmaceuticals                           5.0




                                                                  collaboration to combat
                                                                  counterfeit pharmaceuticals                                                                                    4.5
assessment by external stakeholders




                                                                                                           secure processing of customer data
                                                                                                                                                observance of local
                                                                                                            respect for human rights
                                                                                                                                                laws and guidelines

                                        4.6
                                                                                                                                                                                 4.0               4.5      5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                 moderate                  high


                                                                                                      improvement of health/safety

                                                                      adherence to
                                                                      code of conduct
                                                                                                compliance with environmental legislation
                                        4.5



                                                     reduction of co2 emissions

                                         moderate                                                                                                                        high
                                                                4.5                             4.6                             4.7                            4.8

                                                                         assessment by internal stakeholders incl. management


                                      added value        environment           profile and strategy          employees




        the ten key areas of interest illustrated in the matrix form the basis for the phoenix group to further                                                                   see glossary, page 69.
        develop its csr topics. the corresponding elements of the gri standard relate to those areas of interest
        for which the phoenix group reports at least one performance indicator.

16   the phoenix group assumes responsibility




                                stakeholders have a say on relevant csr topics
       g4 -24, g4 -25, g4 -26   we are bound to our stakeholders by a dialogue-driven and cooperative partnership and their interests
                                and expectations are amongst the key sources of information we use to establish csr topics. when it
                                comes to identifying key topics for csr, we make reference to the stakeholder survey carried out
                                across europe in 2015, which was supported by more than 4,500 participants from amongst our
                                employees, suppliers, customers, subcontractors, and other business partners. they were asked to
                                rate the relevance of various sustainability issues from the four areas of responsibility. these issues
                                were selected on the basis of the gri guidelines, comparative studies with other companies, and our
                                own analysis. we followed this by conducting further, separate discussions about the topics with
                                internal managers from the phoenix group. the results were then evaluated in conjunction with the
                                executive board.

                                clear accountability in csr management
                      g4 -31    the chief executive officer of the phoenix group assumes the overall responsibility for csr. it is his
                                task to implement and manage csr across the whole group. the group’s csr team, which is part of
                                the group communications department, reports to him. the team acts as the central contact on all
                                issues relating to corporate responsibility and is authorised to integrate them into the operational pro-
                                cesses of the phoenix group.

                                data relevant to csr is compiled by local employees responsible for csr in the subsidiaries. the
                                phoenix group’s csr team checks the data for completeness, reliability, accuracy, and clarity before it
                                is published. thanks to the coordination by the group csr team, those employees responsible for csr
                                regularly discuss important issues affecting the whole group and thus promote knowledge sharing
                                across the company. so far, the main focus has been on optimising data collection and standardising
                                the reporting processes.

                                                                                                                the phoenix group assumes responsibility   17




stakeholder management of the phoenix group                                                                                                                g4 -27




                                                                                phoenix group
                                                                                executive board




             employees and                                 pharmacies and                         pharmaceutical                    business partners
              management                                      hospitals                             companies                      and subcontractors




    crucial to operational                         needs and expectations                 needs and expectations             needs and expectations
    performance and value                          critical to value creation             critical to value creation         relevant to value creation
    creation



    ° regular meetings with                       ° r
                                                      egular communication with          ° r
                                                                                             egular communication with         egular meetings
                                                                                                                             ° r
       employee representatives                      customer representatives               customer representatives
    ° communication and                              ooperation with
                                                   ° c                                       ooperation with
                                                                                          ° c
       information on key issues                     associations                           associations
       via newsletter or intranet                     ustomer satisfaction
                                                   ° c                                    ° management meetings about
    ° initiatives and projects in                   surveys                                 business development
       distribution centres                                                               ° c ustomer satisfaction
                                                                                             surveys



    ° promoting health and                       ° product responsibility              ° ethics and integrity            ° product responsibility
      safety in the workplace                      ° compliance                          ° product responsibility          ° secure processing of
    ° compliance                                 ° secure processing of                ° secure processing of               customer data
    ° secure processing of                          customer data                          customer data
      customer data



     4 -la6, g4 -so7, g4 -so8,
    g                                              g4 -so4, g4 -so7, g4 -so8,             g4 -56, g4 -pr1, g4 -pr8          g4 -pr1, g4 -pr8
    g4 -pr8                                        g4 -pr1, g4 -pr8




 basis for stakeholder selection
 phoenix group’s approach to stakeholder engagement
 key topics for stakeholder groups
 gri indicators (this is relevant to indicators that are already reported
  this year and should be reported in the future).

18     the phoenix group assumes responsibility




                if you have any    csr organisation within the phoenix group
     questions, please contact :
             stefanie göndöcs,
                  csr manager
                                    group level




s.goendoecs@phoenixgroup.eu                                                  executive board of the phoenix group
     phone: +49 621 8505 8503

                                                       group communications                                           group controlling




                                                                                     country management
                                    country level




                                                                   local csr team is responsible for data gathering process.


                                                             local csr team from legal, hr, controlling, and/or quality departments.




                                   compliance supports business activities conforming to the rules
                  g4 -56, g4 -57   compliance is an important element of the phoenix group’s corporate culture. responsible and compli-
                                   ant behaviour are of great significance to us – both for our corporate success and for our relationship
                                   with customers, business partners, and other stakeholders.

                                   compliance at the phoenix group rests on three pillars: our anti-corruption guidelines, competition
           further information:    compliance policy, and code of conduct. this is substantiated by the corresponding management
     www.phoenixgroup.eu/en/       system with its organisational and procedural elements. a further pillar – sanctions compliance –
        company/compliance/        is currently being added to the phoenix group’s compliance system. it includes, amongst other
                                   elements, an appropriate automated testing system for checking phoenix business partners based on
                                   sanctions lists.

                        g4 -so4    to put these steps into operation, the phoenix group has established a group-wide compliance organ-
                                   isation, complete with the necessary processes, and has appointed local compliance managers in all
                                   countries.

                                   focus group has undergone compliance training
                         g4 -58    by providing transparent communication and regularly training our employees, we are establishing
                                   the compliance guidelines throughout the entire organisation and in its business processes. through
         see glossary, page 67.    e-learning modules and in-person training sessions, the relevant employees learn about issues relating
                                   to anti-­corruption, competition compliance, and the code of conduct.

                                   employees who are in contact with customers or suppliers, or who have the authority to make business
                                   deals, as well as all managers are additionally receiving in-person training on compliance. our objective
                                   to train all those employees in the 2016/17 reporting year has been achieved. from june 2017, we will
                                   provide advanced training, which will also cover the new area of sanction compliance. in addition, the
                                   phoenix group has access to an external, web-based whistle-blower system that is intended to facili-
                                   tate anonymous reporting of possible risks or specific rule violations and is in active use.

                                                                                                                     csr highlights 2016/17   19




csr highlights 2016/17




       9,000                                       integrated
                                                   acquisition strategy with the acquisition
network in the past year, we created the largest   of mediq, we have become one of the leading
umbrella for pharmacy cooperation programmes       players in the dutch healthcare market – and
in europe. today, more than 9,000 pharmacies       are thus a model for integrated supply chains.
and a large number of pharmaceutical manu-         further acquisitions in montenegro and
facturers are already benefitting from the asso-   hungary are also strengthening our company.
ciation. further information can be found on
page 25.




                                                         involvement
        code                                       employees after our first company-wide survey
                                                   on employee satisfaction, we initiated more
                                                   than 140 follow-up projects, the majority of
supply chain in future, we will require that our   which we have already implemented. our focus
suppliers and service providers comply with a      has been on issues relating to leadership, com-
supplier code of conduct for the procurement       munication, change management, and further
of indirect and trading goods. this code           training.
is based on internationally recognised social,
ethical, and environmental standards. further
information: https://www.phoenixgroup.eu/en/
responsibility/strategy-management/


                                                       research

  –8%
                                                   phoenix pharmaceutics science award
                                                   for the twentieth time, we have awarded total
                                                   prize money of €40,000 to outstanding projects
                                                   in the field of pharmaceutical research. the
                                                   award is one of the most prestigious prizes for
                                                   pharmaceutical researchers in the german-
                                                   speaking world. further information: www.
cost reduction as a result of training measures    p h o e n i xg ro u p . e u / e n / c o m p a n y / s c i e n c e -
and the exchange of best practices, we have        award/
succeeded in reducing costs for pharmaceutical
waste by more than 8 per cent over the last two
years. this means that we are well on our way
to reaching our company-wide csr goal of
achieving a 10 per cent cut by 2018/19.

20




     quality, safety, availability, service. we are
     just as familiar with these key elements of
     our industry as we are with the markets in
     which we operate. this has made us a leading
     pharmaceutical trader in europe.

                                                                                            value creation l our responsibilities    21




                                                01
                  value creation
                            sustainable growth strategy supports
                            our goal of becoming the best integrated
                            healthcare provider

                           ° strong  customer focus and quality provide a sound basis

                           ° pqhoenix pharmacy partnership: europe’s largest network

                           ° uality management system aims for a high level
                               of drug safety
                               greater focus on data protection
                           °




our markets are subject to constant change. it is therefore all the more important that our company
remains highly stable and flexible at the same time. the phoenix group is enhancing its approach
to economic responsibility by continuously expanding its portfolio and accelerating the process of
group-wide cooperation. in doing so, the company is working against the current driving forces in our
business: further cutbacks resulting from the changing political environment in many healthcare systems
as well as the increasing pressure on margins in wholesale and retail.

the essential issues for our own value creation are, in particular, adherence to quality standards, com-
prehensive availability of drugs, secure processing of customer data, and combatting counterfeit
pharmaceuticals. we take these points into account in a number of ways. through our strict quality
management system, we ensure the high level of quality and safety for our products and services. we         g4 -14
comply with legal requirements – especially the guidelines for good distribution practice (gdp) – and       see glossary, page 68.
are involved in the field of drug safety. moreover, we continue to expand our data protection activities.

22    our responsibilities l value creation




                                 the phoenix group bears special responsibility, primarily due to its size and economic strength. it is
                                 now one of the top 30 companies in germany and one of the top 100 in europe. in the german federal
                                 state of baden-wuerttemberg, where our group headquarters are located, our company ranks fifth in the
                                 2015 list of the 50 companies with the highest revenue. furthermore, in october 2016, the foundation
                                 for family businesses named the phoenix group as one of the ten most important family businesses
                                 in germany. when weighted according to revenue, we are ranked third in baden-wuerttemberg and
                                 sixth in germany.

                                 a strategy focussed on growth and cost efficiency
                                 a customer-oriented corporate culture, strict cost management, and profit-oriented growth – these are
                                 the pillars on which the phoenix group’s growth strategy is built. our ultimate goal is to create value
                                 for our company and our stakeholders on a sustainable basis. market leadership and efficiency are
                                 therefore top priorities. we want to grow organically as well as through acquisitions, and aim to consis­
                                 tently strengthen our position in pharmaceutical wholesale, pharmacies, and complementary services.
                                 we are also making targeted investments in technology and automation, thereby increasing efficiency
                                 and productivity.

        see glossary, page 67.   in the process, we are continuously implementing best practices across europe in all business units. in
                                 addition to group-wide initiatives, we are most notably benefitting from process optimisation measures
                                 carried out successfully on a local basis, which then serve as a starting point for improvement measures
                                 in other countries. the local expertise within the phoenix group allows us to take better account of the
                                 national and regional differences that exist in the european pharmaceutical markets.

                                 consolidation of leading position
                                 in the fiscal year 2016/17, the phoenix group was able to further expand its market position as a
                                 leading pharmaceutical trader in europe and successfully develop its business. although conditions
                                 remained challenging, we succeeded in growing significantly more strongly than the market as a whole.
                                 revenue in the reporting year increased by 5.1 per cent to €24.4 billion and total operating performance,
                                 the key figure relevant for pharmaceutical wholesalers, rose by 6.1 per cent to €30.2 billion. the acqui-
                                 sition of mediq apotheken nederland b.v. made a large contribution to these figures. in contrast,
                                 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortisation (ebitda) decreased in the past year
                                 from €495.4 million to €417.8 million. this is mainly owing to the great pressure on wholesale margins
                                 in germany and in the united kingdom and to negative foreign exchange rate effects.

        see glossary, page 69.   on the other hand, we have registered positive results from our warehouse excellence and indirect
                                 procurement initiatives and intend to pursue these programmes in the long term. we anticipate annual
                                 savings on the basis of the newly created group sourcing division. the warehouse excellence initiative
                                 is now established in all countries and is part of our continuous improvement process. moreover, we
                                 work on making improvements to the quality and efficiency of our it processes and to optimise our
                                 business processes.

                                 in the past year, we reached an important milestone with the launch of the largest network for pharmacy
     see focus theme, page 25.   cooperation programmes in europe: phoenix pharmacy partnership. through this network, we are
                                 offering more than 9,000 pharmacies in 15 countries and pharmaceutical manufacturers across europe
                                 customised solutions to suit their individual needs. in the retail business unit, we are also embarking on
                                 a new path with the development of a european own brand. in the course of 2017, we launche livsane,
                                 our first europe-wide category brand for all pharmacies and will continue to expand this product

                                                                                                               value creation l our responsibilities    23




investing in the future. we are increasingly digitising processes and expanding our sites throughout europe.




range selectively. we are reacting to the growing trend towards digitisation by opening and expanding
our own online stores, such as in norway and the czech republic. in pharma services, we expanded our
central eastern europe (cee) bridge network with the addition of a further hub in belgrade, which was
commissioned in november 2016.

major acquisitions successfully completed
as part of our strategy of targeted acquisitions, we achieved important successes in the fiscal year
2016/17. payments for acquisitions amounted to €328.6 million; cash received from divestments
totalled €33.4 million. major company acquisitions in the last year included the takeover of mediq
apotheken nederland b.v. by the brocacef groep nv in the netherlands. alongside pharmacies and the
pharmaceutical wholesale business, this takeover also includes pre-wholesale activities – an important                         see glossary, page 69.
step on our path to becoming an integrated healthcare provider. the result of this acquisition is the
formation of a leading player in the dutch healthcare market. furthermore, we are bringing together the
best practices of mediq and brocacef and are applying them to the entire supply chain.

in october 2016, we also took over the pharmaceutical wholesaler farmegra d.o.o. and the national
pharmacy chain apoteka lijek pzu in montenegro. our market position was thereby significantly
expanded. in addition, the hungarian company novodata zrt., a provider of goods management and till
systems to pharmacies, has been part of the phoenix group since may 2016 and helps to strengthen
our expertise and market position.

investments in logistics
in order to remain competitive and to continue its growth, the phoenix group also makes future-
oriented investments. we have signed off on an extensive europe-wide investment programme to
which we committed €165.2 million in the fiscal year 2016/17 alone. the projects include the largest
logistics centre for pharmaceutical products in scandinavia, two hubs, innovative picking technology,
and a brand-new distribution centre. as part of the skårer project, we have been implementing new
automation technology in norway since january 2016, which is helping us to achieve a high level of
storage density and make significant improvements in productivity. the innovative system is one of the
most technologically advanced in warehouse logistics and is already operating successfully at various
phoenix group sites. a similar project is scheduled to commence in june 2017 in gothenburg, sweden.

24   our responsibilities l value creation




                                 in october 2016, the construction phase of project one got underway in denmark. the largest and
                                 most modern logistics centre for pharmaceutical products in scandinavia is being constructed in
                                 koge, south of copenhagen. this fully automated warehouse will soon provide space for more than
                                 50,000 pallets. during the construction process, the focus is on safety, quality, and efficiency. with this
                                 new facility, we will be able to substantially reduce the risk of counterfeit pharmaceuticals entering
                                 the supply chain and make medicines available quickly. in the united kingdom, the completion of the
                                 logistics centre in runcorn in early 2017 means we now have three hubs available that act as central
                                 warehouses. while the site in birmingham is responsible for the southern region, runcorn supplies
                                 northern england, and east kilbride is the hub for scotland. in gotha, germany, a new 10,000-square
                                 metre distribution centre has been under construction since october 2016. it is the most advanced of
                                 its kind to be used by phoenix in germany.

                                 quality management provides the foundation for corporate success
              g4 -15, g4 - pr1   it is only with impeccable quality in the supply chain that the phoenix group can guarantee a safe
                                 and reliable supply of pharmaceuticals. this extends from product storage in accordance with regula-
                                 tions to accurate deliveries to pharmacies and hospitals through to optimal product availability for
      see glossary, page 68.     end consumers. to this end, all of the companies in the phoenix group follow the guidelines for good
                                 distribution practice (gdp) as published by the eu. against this background, they must operate effective
       all subsidiaries of the   quality assurance systems to ensure that medicinal products are stored, handled, and distributed
     phoenix group comply
                                 in accordance with country-specific legislation. this is regularly checked by means of internal audits
      with the european gdp
                                 and external inspections by the appropriate authorities. in accordance with gdp requirements, quality
         guidelines and local
                 regulations.
                                 management at the phoenix group is based on risk. persons responsible for the implementation of
                                 the gdp guidelines have been designated in all of the subsidiaries.

                       g4 -16    in our industry, the issue of drug safety plays a particularly important role. we are therefore involved in
      see glossary, page 69.     various associations and initiatives across europe, such as the securpharm project. in collaboration
                                 with other market partners from the industry, the wholesale sector, and pharmacies, this scheme aims
                                 to develop a functioning authentication system for prescription-only drugs by 2019. in addition, the
                                 phoenix group is also active on a european level via the european wholesalers’ association girp.
      see glossary, page 68.     we are actively supporting the european medicines verification organisation (emvo) and monitoring
      see glossary, page 68.     the implementation of the falsified medicine directive (fmd) very closely in all phoenix countries.
                                 the shared goal of all market participants is to protect the legal supply chain more effectively against
                                 counterfeit drugs. training courses guarantee that quality management (qm) is assured throughout the
                                 organisation.

                                 effective management systems established
                                 one of the main challenges that we currently face in the field of quality management is the implemen-
                                 tation of the new falsified medicines directive (regulation (eu) 2016/161), which will come into force on
                                 2 october 2019. we have made preparations for these stricter standards in good time and have put the
                                 relevant technical groundwork in place throughout the entire group. furthermore, official inspections
                                 result in a constant stream of new requirements that have to be taken into consideration. these include,
                                 for example, it validation, audits of gdp-relevant external service providers, and the introduction of a
                                 strict deviation management system.

                                                                                              25



in focus

phoenix pharmacy
partnership
transnational cooperation
is a recipe for success

                            segrate is a community of 35,000 people in the milan metro-
                            politan area. the pharmacy run by sara zucca is located at
                            the heart of the town centre. it boasts a rich history, having
                            been family-owned for over a century. to allow her team to
                            concentrate fully on looking after patients, she decided
                            many years ago to become a member of valore salute, the
                            pharmacy cooperation programme of the phoenix group’s
                            italian subsidiary. the service supports the pharmacist in
                            areas such as marketing, sales promotion, technology, and
                            further training.



                                 largest network for pharmacy
                                     cooperation in europe

                            sara zucca’s pharmacy is just one of many examples that
                            demonstrate how the phoenix group is cooperating with its
                            customers in 15 european countries as part of phoenix
                            pharmacy partnership. we launched the european umbrella
                            in 2016 and today more than 9,000 pharmacies in 15 countries
                            benefit from these synergies and exchange of knowledge.
                            with the slogan “access to success”, phoenix works in
                            close association with the 12 local brands – providing an ideal
                            platform for the exchange of knowledge and experience
                            across borders. besides independent pharmacies, patients
                            and the pharmaceutical industry benefit from europe’s largest
                            network too:

                            patients receive a better service. on account of the more
                            than 9,000 member pharmacies belonging to phoenix
                            pharmacy partnership, we have millions of patient contacts
                            every year. as a result, we are in tune with the wishes
                            and requirements of pharmacy customers. this experience
                            provides a solid foundation for local services that are per-
                            formed safely and professionally and for the development of
                            pharmaceutical products that meet the needs of customers.

                            we offer drug manufacturers competitive advantages
                            through effective product management, direct access to the
                            point of sale in thousands of pharmacies, and services
                            along the entire pharmaceutical supply chain. with this
                            expertise on their side, manufacturers can concentrate on
                            their core business: developing outstanding pharmaceuticals
                            and health products.

26     our responsibilities l value creation




       always there for the customer. whether in pharmacies or on the wholesaler hotline, we provide a professional response to our customers’ questions.




         see glossary, page 69.     in accordance with the din en iso 9001:2015 standard introduced in autumn 2015, we have integrated
                                    our quality management system in germany even more closely into the organisation’s strategic orienta-
                                    tion and expanded the target groups. in germany, we have also been awarded organic certification
                                    (eu organic products regulation). this means that organic products may be traded as such and their
                                    proper usage is guaranteed.

         with the track & trace     the track & trace system trialled in a pilot project during the previous year has been almost fully rolled
     system, the delivery quality   out at phoenix pharmahandel gmbh, allowing real-time tracking of each item being transported by
             of phoenix will be     the phoenix group. with this innovative delivery tracking system, which we are the first pharmaceutical
         improved even further.
                                    wholesaler in germany to implement, we are increasing the level of transparency in a logistics system
                                    that features increasingly complex processes and networks. by constantly logging goods movements
                                    with scanners that are used to read the barcodes of transported items at each key stage of the journey,
                                    we are not only improving delivery quality, but also preventing transported items from being overlooked
                                    or mixed up. track & trace is currently being introduced nationwide in our swedish subsidiary.

                                    state-of-the-art logistics from transmed
                                    our subsidiary responsible for transport, transmed, is also keeping up with the innovations on the market
                                    and is expanding its fleet of pharmacy vehicles to meet the demand. with “transmed gdp solutions” –
                                    a service provided under the phoenix umbrella brand all-in-one – the organisation has been offering
                                    the pharmaceutical industry a wider range of gdp-compliant transport solutions since summer 2015.
                                    the service centres on the direct, timely distribution of pharmaceutical products from manufacturers to
                                    pharmacies, hospitals, and wholesale distributors.

                                    to this end, the company first made modifications to its air conditioning systems and undertook
                                    renovation measures in its three central hubs, as well as extending the track-and-trace system already
                                    in use for overnight deliveries to also cover deliveries made during the day. in order to make sure
                                    that transportation across germany does not adversely affect the quality of temperature-sensitive
                                    drugs, special pharmacy vehicles are utilised. these specially insulated vehicles are equipped with air
                                    conditioning in the cargo area and calibrated online temperature monitoring.

                                                                                              value creation l our responsibilities      27




in other countries too – such as hungary, slovakia, and serbia – all delivery vehicles are temperature-­
controlled and specially insulated to fulfil the demands of the gdp guidelines. in sweden, the nether-
lands the czech republic, bosnia and herzegovina, and croatia, all transport vehicles have already
been fitted with temperature monitoring systems. other subsidiaries, including those in italy and the
united kingdom, are running pilot projects to improve temperature management during transport and to
introduce new vehicles.

customer satisfaction is regularly assessed
as stated in our corporate mission, the needs of our customers are at the heart of our business. regular       timely insight into the
customer surveys in all countries help to maintain a strong customer focus and consequently a high             needs of our customers

level of customer satisfaction.                                                                                through regular
                                                                                                               customer surveys
                                                                                                               in all subsidiaries.
in the course of the past year, we conducted surveys of wholesale customers in countries including the
netherlands, france, switzerland, and hungary. amongst the subjects covered were customer reten-
tion, distribution issues, operational processes, complaint management, and current topics such as the
phoenix group’s new pharmacy services. we have also recently added the trend barometer, which
pharmacies use to assess the current and future economic situation.

regular surveys of customer opinions in all of the countries in which we are represented in the whole-
sale sector reveal that the number of extremely or very satisfied customers is on the rise. customer
loyalty to phoenix has likewise grown in our subsidiaries.

with an exceptionally high customer satisfaction rating of 92 per cent – well above the market average
– our danish subsidiary continues to maintain a comfortable lead over the rest of europe.

all opinion polls give us important insights regarding our strengths and weaknesses. we can use this
information to derive specific recommendations and optimisation measures, the success of which
is then examined in follow-up studies. europe-wide pharmacy cooperation programmes from the
phoenix group also provide important stimulus for improving customer retention.

our norwegian subsidiary has obtained encouraging survey results as well. in the apotekbarometeret
(pharmacy barometer), which is published twice a year, it ranked first in the past year. in other words, its
customers were very satisfied. moreover, in 2016, the norsk kundebarometer (norwegian customer
satisfaction index) revealed that apotek 1 is not only the best pharmacy chain in the country, but also
the best retailer in norway. every year, the survey investigates the level of customer loyalty and satisfac-
tion enjoyed by norway’s largest companies.

28   our responsibilities l value creation




     ongoing exchange. we keep our employees up to date on issues such as data protection through training and group-wide teamwork.




                               data protection is increasingly important
                   g4 -pr8     data protection – protecting individuals from the misuse of personal data – is an issue that the
                               phoenix group has been giving increased attention for a number of years. it is particularly important
                               that we maintain a constant overview of the ever-changing parameters arising due to new laws, direc-
                               tives, technology, and court rulings. the phoenix group is represented in the german association for
                               data protection and data security (gdd), for instance, and regularly exchanges ideas and information
                               with other interested parties through this forum.

                               observing new legislation
                               one of the main challenges that we currently face is the introduction of the european general data
                               protection regulation, which will come into force in may 2018. it will standardise the rules governing
                               how companies and public entities across the eu process personal data.

                               in preparation, we are working closely and intensively with all subsidiaries to develop a europe-wide
                               concept for our data protection activities. over the past fiscal year, we have thus put together a working
                               group primarily consisting of data protection officers and employees from group it. we have set our-
                               selves the goal of introducing group-wide internal data protection guidelines by may 2018 at the latest.

                               cooperating closely across the group
                               the phoenix group has strengthened its transnational organisation in the field of data protection. the
                               group data protection officer thus took on the additional function of head of group data protection in
                               june 2016. in her role as a data protection officer, she acts independently, reports directly to the execu-
                               tive board, and is primarily responsible for ensuring the compliance with all regulations relating to data
                               protection. in germany, this includes adherence to the german federal data protection act (bdsg).

                                                                                              value creation l our responsibilities   29




many of the phoenix group’s subsidiaries have their own data protection officers, whose role is to
ensure that the applicable local statutory requirements for data protection are being observed and that
no data is accessible to unauthorised third parties. in all of those countries that were previously without
data protection officers, contact persons for data protection were assigned in 2016. cooperation
across europe is coordinated by the head of data protection through monthly telephone conferences,
annual meetings, and other measures.

for the phoenix group in germany, the data protection guidelines introduced on 1 march 2016 are key
to safeguarding data protection. they contain general regulations on data protection in the workplace
and ensure that personal data belonging to customers, suppliers, business partners, and employees is
protected.

employees receive comprehensive training
in order to emphasise the issue of data protection throughout the entire organisation, we are training
our employees. as part of this training, they are acquiring basic knowledge about the federal data
protection act. to this end, an online data protection training programme was developed and has been
in use since march 2017. as a parallel measure, we have prepared a short presentation based on the
e-learning course, which is being used in department or works meetings to train employees without
access to a computer at work. it is our express goal that all employees in germany will have received
the appropriate training by the end of the fiscal year 2017/18.

relevant online training on the general data protection regulation is planned across the group for the
fiscal year 2018/2019.

30



efficiency and sustainability. we bring
these terms to life and give them
practical meaning for people and
the environment through a variety of
measures in our day-to-day work.

                                                                                           environment l our responsibilities   31




                                             02
                       environment
                          committed to conserving natural resources
                           progress in reducing pharmaceutical waste
                          ° energy monitoring indicates potential for
                           °
                              efficiency improvements
                            transparent reporting of co2 emissions
                           ° transmed invests in climate-friendly logistics
                          °




environmental protection is something the phoenix group takes very seriously. our activities are
focussed on effectively reducing pharmaceutical waste, a problem associated not only with ecological
risks but also with high costs for our company. by implementing targeted measures, we are steadily
coming closer to our company-wide csr goal of cutting the cost of pharmaceutical waste by 10 per cent
by 2018/19. these measures include staff training and information campaigns in our distribution centres
as well as ideas and suggestions for improvements in line with the warehouse excellence programme.

we are constantly pursuing our commitment to energy efficiency and climate protection. alongside
extensive energy monitoring, figures giving an accurate measurement of the greenhouse gas (ghg)
emissions we have produced show us where we can make further improvements. these areas primarily
include energy-efficient building technology, resource-saving administrative processes, using energy
from renewable sources, and implementing environmentally friendly logistics concepts.

32      our responsibilities l environment




                                   efficient use of resources protects the environment and cuts costs
             g4 - en23, g4 -en27   the phoenix group transports and stores millions of pharmaceutical packages every day. in doing so,
                                   we are legally obliged to remove expired products or items with damaged packaging from the supply
                                   chain and to properly dispose of them as hazardous waste. for our company, the most effective way to
          see glossary, page 69.   improve this situation is to record the costs arising as a result of pharmaceutical waste.

                                   initiatives to reduce pharmaceutical waste
                                   we want to prevent the production of pharmaceutical waste from the outset. within the scope of
     see focus theme, page 34 f.   quality management and in line with the gdp guidelines, we use standard practices and operating
                                   procedures to reduce the risk of damage to packaging as much as possible. first and foremost, this
                                   involves training of our employees in the distribution centres with special attention given to the careful
                                   handling of packages, visual inspections to check that packaging is undamaged, and the protection of
                                   products against extreme temperatures and humidity.

                                   we regularly inform employees in team meetings about the cost of products that were damaged or had
                                   expired. as a result, we not only raise greater awareness among our staff, but can also directly compare
                                   the distribution centres on the basis of the cost analysis. the integration of this issue into the ware-
                                   house excellence programme is also playing an important role. in this context, we not only provide
                                   information about the causes of damage, but also encourage the application of those improvement
                                   ideas that target risk prevention. we are thereby fostering close cooperation between the subsidiaries
                                   and benefitting from best practices.

                                   in the interest of reducing pharmaceutical waste caused by missed expiry dates, we are in constant
                                   communication with our partner suppliers in the industry. we thus aim to achieve better conditions for
                                   any reimbursement of costs and continue to minimise the number of defective deliveries.

                                   considerable progress made in reducing costs
                                   we have set ourselves the target of reducing the cost of pharmaceutical waste by 10 per cent by
                                   2018/19, in comparison with the 2014/15 figures. in the reporting year, the costs incurred amounted to
                                   €31.83 million, compared with €33.50 million in the previous year and €34.68 million in the reference
                                   year. this already equates to a cost reduction of around 8.2 per cent within two years. as a proportion
                                   of revenue, costs fell during this period from 0.15 per cent to 0.13 per cent in the reporting year. in order
                                   to maintain this positive trend, the country managers decided at their annual meeting in 2016 to cut
                                   costs by 30 per cent over the next three years.

                                                                                                     environment l our responsibilities   33




pharmaceutical waste by region

in tonnes

                                                                                             850
                                                                                     765

                                                                             618




                                                         198         205                             2014/15
             185             195                 183           177
                                         151                                                         2015/16
                     111           106                                                               2016/17



                   germany          western europe        eastern europe      northern europe



in contrast to the reduction in costs, our records show an increase in the amount of pharmaceutical
waste. in the reporting period, we registered 1,432 tonnes of waste within the phoenix group – a rise
of almost 19 per cent compared with the previous year. this is attributable to the increase in revenue as
well as the integration of the dutch company mediq in the phoenix group. consequently, the volume
of transported goods has increased. furthermore, patients in most countries return damaged and
expired products to pharmacies. these products are then disposed of by wholesalers, which means
that the amount of pharmaceutical waste cannot be fully controlled by our company.

high rate of recycling for non-hazardous waste
besides hazardous waste, our company processes also generate other waste materials that are con-
sidered non-hazardous. these include plastics, paper and cardboard, waste from power generation,
and mixed waste, which is properly disposed of by specialist partner companies. overall, more than
23,100 tonnes of non-hazardous waste were produced in the reporting period. the majority of such waste
is recycled in all of the subsidiaries of the phoenix group. as far as possible, we allow biodegradable
waste to decompose naturally.



non-hazardous waste by region

in tonnes

            8,380 8,405 8,621
                                                 7,782


                                   5,663 5,456

                                                                                             4,224
                                                                                     3,852
                                                                             3,503
                                                         2,462 2,317 2,531                           2014/15
                                                                                                     2015/16
                                                                                                     2016/17



                   germany          western europe        eastern europe      northern europe

34



     in focus

     reducing waste: projects and initiatives
     improving our efficiency across europe




                                                       the objective:
                                                      lower costs by 10 per cent
                                                        through reduction of
                                                        pharmaceutical waste




                       hungary




                       intensification of measures
                       intended to avoid exceeding expiry dates and
                       thus reduce the proportion of expired goods.
                       steps taken include:

                         ensuring that drugs are kept at the ideal
                       °	
                         refrigeration temperature when being transported
                          and when being kept in cold storage

                       ° consistent tracking of batches
                       regularly training employees and using a
                       reward system as an incentive

                                                                                                35




                                          netherlands




                                            aising awareness of the issue of waste
                                           r
                                           prevention, for example by means of:

                                           ° information events
                                           ° linogging  the amount of waste produced by site
                                                  order to achieve specific reductions

                                           various modifications to warehouse organisation,
                                           including:

                                           ° itontelligent sorting and logistics processes
                                                   prevent damaged goods
                                                 ptimised warehouse management with
                                           ° oregard to regard to expiry dates
                                             improvements to goods picking and monitoring
                                           °	


  france




improved communication
through various channels to raise awareness of
the positive impact of waste reduction at phoenix

optimisation of warehouse processes, including:

° clear, straightforward signage
     olour-coding of different product groups,
° csuch as fragile products, high-value goods,
   reusable packaging

° organisation of waste areas
° use of protective packaging for fragile goods

36   our responsibilities l environment




                               disposal methods for the phoenix group’s non-hazardous waste



                                                                                           15% (3,428 t) reuse




                                                                                                                    ther forms of
                                                                                                     18% (4,165 t) o
                                                                                                                   waste disposal 1)



                                                     67% (15,566 t) recycling




                               1) including treatment plants and composting.




                               a step closer to the paperless office
                               the phoenix group also takes care to conserve natural resources in its administrative processes,
                               harnessing the potential offered by digitisation, for example by reducing paper consumption. in germany,
                               our credit control department now mainly works with purely electronic files, which amounted to approx-
                               imately 140,000 documents by the end of 2016. before the digitisation project started in 2015, the
                               department was still using 4,000 to 6,000 sheets of paper each month. today, the quantity is only
                               one-tenth of it. transmed is increasingly using an electronic document management system as well,
                               such as for carrier records, customer files, and vehicle documents. phoenix pharma einkauf gmbh
                               has also adopted this model and aims to introduce an electronic supplier record in 2017, which will
                               naturally meet requirements for data protection and tamper-proof audit trails. other business units are
                               considering the implementation of this concept and the use of appropriate software.

                               wintrip saas, the new travel expenses program introduced by the phoenix group in 2016, likewise
                               facilitates a paperless workflow. in addition to replacing paper, it can also be used on a smartphone and
                               allows travel expenses to be refunded efficiently.

                               pressing ahead with energy efficiency and climate protection
           g4 -en3, g4 -en6    the phoenix group operates an extensive energy monitoring system for its buildings and is thereby
      see glossary, page 67.   following the european union’s energy efficiency directive, which stipulates that energy audits must be
                               carried out or energy management systems established. since 2015, an energy auditor has been work-
                               ing in the phoenix group and initiating improvement processes and supporting their implementation.
                               we are utilising these energy audits to advance suitable energy-­saving measures. we are primarily
                               concentrating on rolling out our led modernisation programme, optimising the operation of ventilation
                               systems, and training our employees in energy-saving behaviour.

      see glossary, page 67.   the amount of energy consumed in the form of electricity (+ 1.87 per cent) and district heating
                               (+ 3.26 per cent) rose slightly in comparison with the previous year. while most of the phoenix group’s
                               subsidiaries were able to reduce their electricity consumption, the increase in our total operating perfor-
                               mance, the integration of mediq into our dutch subsidiary, and the considerably higher number of newly
                               opened pharmacies in lithuania led to this growth in consumption at group level.

                                                                                                                              environment l our responsibilities   37




consumption of electricity of the                                       consumption of district heating of
phoenix group                                                           the phoenix group

in mwh                                                                  in mwh

                             136,826    139,385                                           21,642 1)   21,093 1)   21,782 1)
                  134,180




                 2014/15     2015/16    2016/17                                           2014/15     2015/16     2016/17

in western european countries, heating gas and electricity are predominantly used instead of district heating.

1)	explanation of the deviating reported values in previous years: the czech republic used a different reporting unit in

  previous years’ reports (gj instead of mwh).




the phoenix group is constantly reviewing the benefits of renewable energy sources with the aim of
improving climate protection. some of our subsidiaries are already using photovoltaic equipment to
generate electricity (e.g. in the czech republic) or biomass-fuelled heating systems (e.g. in macedonia).
our scandinavian business units have been obtaining their electricity exclusively from green sources
since 2010.

we are also offering our employees new ways in which to make their very own contributions to climate
protection. for example, employees in germany have been able to lease bicycles in collaboration with
the company jobrad since september 2016, thus avoiding emissions from transport. promotional
days were organised in the distribution centres which subsequently led to around 120 employees
accepting the offer. the bikes can also be used for leisure and purchased after the end of the lease
term at a price specified in the contract.




        innovation improves energy efficiency and
        security in container transport
        before they are dispatched, all transport con-                  the past, two plates were used to heat-weld
        tainers used by the phoenix group are fitted                    the ends of this strap together. the hot wedge
        with a vacuum-sealed lid. even if the container                 required in this process needed a constant
        is not filled, the lid remains tightly in place. we             supply of energy in order to maintain the
        have optimised this process such that the                       requisite high temperature. by contrast, the
        gripper arm goes into idle mode after ten                       new technique employs ultrasound, meaning
        minutes. the process of attaching the lid only                  that contact heat is only generated for a very
        starts once a container has reached a set                       short time. this results in a substantial reduc-
        point. moreover, once the lid is attached, a                    tion in energy consumption. overall, up to
        securing strap is pulled around the box for the                 88,000 kwh per year are saved with this new
        container to stay closed during transport. in                   technical solution.

38   our responsibilities l environment




                               decrease in co2 emissions
      see glossary, page 68.   the phoenix group keeps an annual record of the greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions produced by the
         g4 -en15, g4 -en16,   company and this year’s figures show a decrease of 5,3 per cent in comparison with the previous year.
                   g4 -en17    the reduction of co2 emissions could be achieved in scope 3. despite increasing sales, some countries
                               were able to reduce their transport emissions through environmentally friendly logistics concepts.
                               in sweden, for example, the partial use of biofuels contributes to this. the growth in scope 1 and 2 is
                               based on the effects of our overall energy consumption, as previously described, as well as from
                               a slight modification to the energy mix, favouring the use of natural gas. in regional terms, the largest
                               amount of harmful emissions was registered in western europe (including germany), followed by
                               northern europe and eastern europe.



      see glossary, page 69.   total ghg emissions (scope 1 – 3)


                               co2 in tonnes                                                                           2014/15             2015/16          2016/17


                               scope 1 total                                                                            20,501              22,908          25,844
                               scope 2 total 1)                                                                         47,693              49,168          49,830
                               scope 3 total 2)                                                                       140,907             152,603        137,009
                               total ghg emissions of the phoenix group                                               209,101             224,679       212,683

                               1) data adjusted for different reporting unit (see note under consumption of district heating).
                               2) figures were adjusted in comparison with the corporate sustainability report 2015/16 due to changes in data collection.




                               total ghg emissions by region (scope 1 – 3)

                               co2 in tonnes

                                                                                   78,578

                                                                                            66,226
                                                60,050 57,860 57,498                                                          59,374
                                                                          54,364
                                                                                                                                       49,623 49,139
                                                                                                              38,618 39,821
                                                                                                     35,314
                                                                                                                                                       2014/15
                                                                                                                                                       2015/16
                                                                                                                                                       2016/17



                                                      germany               western europe            eastern europe 1)          northern europe 2)

                               1) data adjusted for different reporting unit (see note under consumption of district heating).
                               2) figures were adjusted in comparison with the corporate sustainability report 2015/16 due to changes in data collection.




                               implementation of environmentally friendly logistics concepts
                   g4 -en30    as transport is responsible for a large proportion of the co2 emissions produced by the phoenix
                               group, we are pushing ahead with our efforts to make our logistics efficient and environmentally
                               friendly. our focus is on maintaining a modern vehicle fleet and a transparent database, as well as an
                               eco-efficient driving style.

                               on a daily basis, our subsidiary transmed makes around 7,000 trips with roughly 2,400 vehicles. it also
                               offers transport vehicles for lease to its carriers. thanks to short lease terms of less than 36 months on
                               average, transmed has a modern fleet with fuel-efficient vehicles at its disposal.

                                                                                                environment l our responsibilities      39




comparison of other emissions to transport emissions 1) of the phoenix group




                                                                  28 % other emissions




                  72 % emissions from transport




1) own transports and transports by subcontractors.




detailed vehicle database
transmed maintains a complete overview of its vehicles, including their features and consumption data.
the company has been evaluating the annual mileage per branch since 2012, as well as information
about the categories and types of vehicles, the engine and fuel types, and co2 emissions per kilometre.

recently, the organisation has been receiving occasional requests from customers to provide informa-
tion about co2 emissions per package. transmed will respond to these changing requirements and, in
the reporting period, has already been working on ways of calculating the emissions data according to
the mix of the fleet and routes as a function of the vehicle utilisation. first results from the project are
expected at the end of 2017.

raising awareness about eco-efficient driving style
transmed regularly informs its employees about fuel-efficient driving. some of the most effective meas-
ures include switching off the engine when making a delivery, carrying out regular checks on tyre
pressures and on the ignition system, using fuel-efficient engine oils and low-resistance tyres, ensuring
optimal loading, and using air conditioning and heated seats sparingly.

pilot projects for alternative fuels and drives
tamro, the swedish subsidiary of the phoenix group, has been involved in trialling eco-friendly fuels in
conjunction with its logistics partners. this collaboration has focussed on the use of hvo100, a type of
biodiesel that is extracted from waste materials such as used grease or cooking oils as well as vegetable
oils from oil-bearing crops. hvo100 is thus obtained from renewable energy sources. furthermore, the           see glossary, page 69.
exhaust fumes do not contain sulphur or aromatics and no ash is produced in the combustion process.
after the launch of the joint initiative, 18 per cent of all trips to pharmacies on behalf of the company in
2016 were made with vehicles using hvo100 fuel.

the transmed branch in hanover, germany, participated in a pilot project to test whether or not electri-
cally powered vehicles are able to cope with the practical requirements of pharmaceutical wholesale.
even though it appears that this is not yet the case due to intensive charging cycles, e-mobility is a
subject that the company will return to in the future and one which will be regularly investigated.

40




     numbering over 34,000 across europe, our
     employees are both the backbone and the future
     of the phoenix group. as a good employer,
     we value their commitment and offer targeted
     support for their individual strengths.

                                                                                             employees l our responsibilities   41




                                             03
                              employees
                           corporate culture based on
                           dialogue and trust

                           ° ftalent
                                 orward-looking system of education and further training

                           ° active follow-up
                                       management programme substantially expanded

                           ° signs of successofinthe employee survey results

                           °                       reducing the illness rate




motivated and committed employees are the backbone of the phoenix group’s success. it is especially
important to us that we systematically develop the potential of our employees and offer them
the appropriate opportunities for education and further training. through talent management and
group-wide succession planning, we open up international career opportunities to our managers, because
it is our aim to fill management positions primarily from within the ranks of the phoenix group.

our corporate culture is shaped by the values enshrined in our corporate mission and our group-wide
leadership guidelines. these values form the basis for personnel management and strengthen the
common bond across the group. open dialogue and regular feedback between managers and employ-
ees are amongst the key elements of our corporate culture.

the first group-wide employee survey conducted in 2015 gave us valuable ideas for a future-oriented
hr strategy and inspired us to strengthen our employer brand. in the reporting year, our main focus has
been on the systematic, internationally coordinated follow-up process alongside the definition of areas
of activity and measures to be implemented in conjunction with our employees.

42   our responsibilities l employees




                               at group level and within each country, our company can rely on an effective hr organisation, which
                               fulfils its role as a business partner with interfaces to all relevant business processes and is thus able
                               to rise to the growing challenges. these include the shortage of skilled personnel, demographic change,
                               and supporting work-life balance. the establishment of an occupational health management system is
                               and will continue to be one of our most important objectives. with this initiative, we are taking another
                               step closer to reaching our overarching csr goal of reducing the illness rate in the company.

                               positive development in employee numbers
            g4 - 10, g4 -la1   at the end of the fiscal year 2016/17, there were 34,145 employees (27,664 full-time equivalents) working
                               for the phoenix group across a total of 26 countries in europe. this equates to an increase of around
                  g4 - la12    9.6 per cent in full-time equivalents. at more than 6,500, the largest number of employees is registered
                               in the united kingdom, followed by the netherlands (4,665) and germany (4,434). on average, the pro-
                               portion of female employees is around 70 per cent, and 42 per cent of employees work part-time.



                               employees broken down into full-time/part-time

                               as of 31 january

                                                                                                  34,145

                                                                28,881          29,745

                                                                                                           42%
                                                                         40%             40%




                                                                                                           58%
                                                                         60%             60%                           part-time
                                                                                                                       full-time



                                                               2014/15          2015/16           2016/17




                               regional distribution of employees within the phoenix group 2016/17



                                                                                               13% (4,434) germany
                                                  21% (7,102) northern europe




                                              21% (7,315) eastern europe

                                                                                                  45% (15,294) western europe

                                                                                                employees l our responsibilities     43




education and further training secure future expertise
we want to attract committed young people to embark upon a career in our company, in order to meet
our need for skilled workers in the future. recruitment fairs, career and student information days, as
well as training fairs are used to raise awareness of our company as a modern employer and to enter
into a dialogue with school and university graduates as well as with experienced candidates. in many
cases, we conduct actual interviews on the spot.

in germany, we offer a wide range of apprenticeships and dual study programmes. these include busi-
ness administration apprenticeships in wholesale and retail, training as warehouse logistics specialists,
or bachelor’s degrees in business management or business information systems. in the 2016 training           three quarters of our
year, the phoenix group employed 130 apprentices and 17 students of dual study courses in our home           apprentices were

market germany. at 76 per cent, the overwhelming majority of the apprentices were employed in per-           permanently employed.

manent positions after they completed their training.

the phoenix group encourages group-wide, cross-border communication right from the start of their
professional careers with us and offers students of dual courses the opportunity to spend time abroad,
for example in croatia, hungary, italy, and the netherlands.

professional qualifications in all areas
we have established an efficient system for further training across the company, which allows employ-
ees to enhance their professional skills and can give their personal development a significant boost.

at the start of their employment, new employees take part in induction seminars that are tailored to         g4 -la9
their individual needs and the requirements of the respective phoenix group countries. in this context,
our new employees completed around 10,250 hours of training in the reporting year. as a result of the
stringent requirements for good distribution practice (gdp), the emphasis of these training measures
was on handling drugs. in the fiscal year 2016/17, we spent 3,120 hours of further training on this topic.

all employees complete induction programmes and training courses that suit their particular area of
responsibility. training courses on gdp, the code of conduct, the anti-corruption policy, and the compe-
tition compliance policy are all part of the mandatory programme. occupational health and safety –
with a particular focus on conversations about returning to or absence from work, corporate integration
management, addiction prevention and addiction support, as well as stress management – is also
given high priority, as are personnel management, legal considerations, quality, data protection, it, and
languages. our employees also have the possibility of using e-learning systems to gain professional
qualifications in the workplace.

at the same time, the phoenix group is intensifying the cross-european exchange of best practices for
the implementation of training concepts so that we may learn from our colleagues in other countries.
the pharmacy retail business was one of the most recent areas of focus in the reporting year. our
subsidiaries are making this a special priority: for example, our subsidiary in the united kingdom is
concentrating on developing the expertise of young professionals in its pharmacies. within the scope of
the rowlands pharmacy foundation programme, employees who have recently completed their training
as pharmacists are supported to gain management skills through training courses and mentoring
programmes. in the reporting period, 26 members of staff also benefited from vocational training
opportunities that were offered in various divisions of the company.

44



     in focus

     mediq becomes brocacef
     achieving more together




                entitled “samen meer” in dutch – or “better together” in english –
                the integration campaign is under way. following the takeover of
                mediq apotheken by brocacef, the phoenix group’s subsidiary
                in the netherlands, the process of combining the two companies’
                teams has begun.

                the phoenix group first announced its interest in acquiring mediq in
                december 2014 and the dutch competition authorities, acm, gave
                the green light about 18 months later. the largest single acquisition in
                the history of the phoenix group became official in june 2016.we have
                thereby taken a further decisive step towards achieving our vision of
                being the best integrated healthcare provider in europe – wherever we are.

                mediq pharmacies are gradually being rebranded as benu apotheek,
                the trading name of the brocacef pharmacy chain. the acquisition also
                includes the company’s pharmaceutical wholesale and pre-wholesale
                activities – in other words, its logistics services for pharmaceutical
                manufacturers. consequently, brocacef now offers a nationwide
                pharmacy network as well as products and services along the entire
                pharmaceutical supply chain. the newly restructured company is
                the clear market leader in the netherlands.

                                                                                                45




                                              » the best of both worlds «
                   vera evers
             key account manager
                  at brocacef,          naturally, it takes time to merge two companies, each
         previously employed at mediq   with its own culture. even though this entails many
                                        changes, especially for longstanding employees, it is
                                        clear that everyone is working with each other to
                                        combine the best of both worlds and create some-
                                        thing great together. people are the most important
                                        element in all of this. and brocacef really does put
                                        people first – that’s what i like the most.




    » increased level of expertise
        and competitiveness «
at first, i was unsure how we would be affected by
the takeover – a sentiment shared by many of my
colleagues. but we have been kept well informed at
every stage through newsletters, staff meetings
attended by management, and the intranet site for
the “samen meer” campaign. as a consequence
of the takeover, not only do we now have more
colleagues and sites, but we have also increased
our level of expertise, experience, and competitive-
ness. as a result, we can continue to improve the
quality of our health services.


                                                                       nora akaliri
                                                               area manager at brocacef,
                                                              previously employed at mediq

46   our responsibilities l employees




                               talent management successfully established on an international level
                               we aim to fill our management positions primarily from within the ranks of our own company and
                               implement a policy of transnational succession planning for top positions. the phoenix group’s talent
                               management scheme, established in 2016, forms the basis for this approach and uses a competency
                               model to determine key positions in the company, identify the top performers, and provide optimal
                               opportunities for promotion.

                               having successfully integrated subsidiary management and senior management in germany into the
                               programme, it is now being rolled out to additional management levels and will be combined with our
                               own development programme from 2017. at present, the talent management programme includes
                               more than 250 managers.

                               when it comes to the development of skills within the scope of the talent management scheme, we are
                               already able to build upon a multitude of development programmes aimed at those managers and
                               employees who are seeking leadership positions. younger employees with leadership potential com-
      see glossary, page 69.   plete the junior development programme (jdp), through which they gain the essential basic skills
                               needed in their everyday professional lives. a fifth group began the programme in 2016.

      see glossary, page 69.   (junior) managers with prior experience participate in the management development programme (mdp),
                               which was successfully completed with a sixth group in autumn 2016. in 2016/17, the phoenix group
      see glossary, page 68.   conducted the european management development programme (emdp) for the third time. it is run
                               jointly by the mannheim business school in germany and the malik management centre in st gallen,
                               switzerland, for junior managers in all countries. at group level, a development programme for top and
                               senior management is being established, the first module of which will begin at the end of 2017.

                               in the fiscal year 2016/17, around 300 employees across europe participated in the ongoing rounds of
                               these programmes.

                               leadership role and dialogue with our employees
                     g4 - 56   leadership guidelines applicable to the entire group serve as the foundation of our personnel manage-
                               ment and support as close a bond as possible throughout the group. on the basis of six core topics, the
                               leadership guidelines lay down principles for the relationship between managers and employees, as
                               well as providing information on their incorporation into daily working practice.

                   g4 - la11   the annual employee review, with its opportunity for discussion between managers and employees, is
                               an integral component of our dialogue-driven corporate culture. reviews are conducted in different
                               ways in the respective subsidiaries. as part of this process, employees receive structured feedback
                               based on standardised criteria, which helps them to identify areas where they can make improvements
                               and opportunities to further develop their strengths. the annual employee review is now also con-
                               ducted in all distribution centres. the implementation rate in germany was already above 90 per cent in
                               the reporting year in the netherlands even at 100 per cent.

                                                                                                             employees l our responsibilities   47




learning from colleagues. internal knowledge transfer and talent development are important principles within the phoenix group.




efficient follow-up to the employee survey
with the aim of finding out more about our employees’ level of satisfaction and their needs, and in order
to derive specific improvement measures, we conducted a group-wide employee survey at the end of
2015. it boasted a response rate of 64 per cent and indicated a strong commitment to the company,
a positive assessment of leadership performance, as well as valuable opportunities for solidifying the
phoenix group as an attractive employer. in 2016, the results were communicated simultaneously to
all employees in an open and consistent manner.

managers defined action points for their respective areas of responsibility and developed measures in
conjunction with their employees. the focus lies on the issues our employees were less satisfied
with, but which have a considerable impact on motivation and commitment. these include aspects of
leadership, communication, change management, the feedback culture, and further training at all levels.

in the numerous workshops held in all divisions of the company, more than 140 improvement measures
were defined, three-quarters of which had already been implemented by the end of april 2017.
the majority of these measures related to issues of communication and information sharing, which
were made significantly more efficient with tools such as newsletters or the intranet that was enhanced
as a digital platform. the creation of information points in the distribution centres has also played an
important role. they can be used by employees who do not have a pc or access to the internet to view
company information. other projects concentrated on the improved definition of responsibilities within
work processes, an enhanced feedback culture, and on establishing a healthy, motivating, and respect-
ful working environment.

the continued consistent implementation of measures, a standardised process, and the achievement
of objectives will be closely monitored by subsidiary management and the executive board of the
phoenix group. the company is planning to conduct another international employee survey in 2018.

48      our responsibilities l employees




                                    close cooperation with employee representatives
                          g4 - 11   the phoenix group maintains a cooperative, constructive, and open relationship with the employee
 in 2016/17, around 38 per cent     representatives in accordance with internationally recognised standards as well as the legal framework
     of employees in europe and     of each individual country. the european works council (ewc) supports the education of employee
     94 per cent of employees in
                                    representatives in our subsidiaries and assumes an important coordinating function when key measures
         germany were covered
                                    have an impact on two or more countries. for example, this affects the employee survey, occupational
       by collective agreements.
                                    health management – taking account of demographic factors – as well as work-life balance and further
                                    training. the ewc therefore plays a role in significant aspects of corporate sustainability and encour-
                                    ages employees to support particularly those csr projects that positively influence the attractiveness
                                    as an employer.

                                    supporting a healthy and safe work environment
                                    the phoenix group pays attention to the health of its employees and ensures safe working practices.
                                    with its clearly defined structures and processes that are designed for strict compliance with the
                                    relevant laws and regulations of the individual countries and of the european union (eu), our quality
                                    management system provides an important foundation. it includes systematic risk assessments for
                                    each workplace and organising appropriate preventative measures. we also have employees on duty at
                                    all of our sites who have been trained as first aiders and as health and safety officers.

                        g4 - la6    moreover, we give our employees regular training on all issues of occupational health and safety including
                                    fire protection, workplace ergonomics, healthy screen use, nutritional issues, and handling work-related
                                    stress. our employees in the distribution centres additionally receive specific training in the safe operation
                                    of machinery and other technical equipment.

                                    accidents at work are reported by us to the appropriate local authorities and documented in the same
                                    way as work-related illnesses. within the phoenix group, 562 lost-time injuries were recorded during the
                                    reporting period. with a total of around 49.24 million actual working hours, this equates to a company-­
                                    wide accident rate of 11.41 accidents per one million working hours. in addition to a long time sick
                                    leave, the increase is due to the inclusion of all subsidiaries in the statistics for the first time.

                                    total recordable injury frequency (trif) 1)


                                    per one million working hours                                                        2014/15          2015/16 2)      2016/17


                                    injuries with lost time                                                                    341            358            562
                                    actual working hours                                                            42,464,505          43,786,889     49,244,449
                                    total recordable injury frequency (trif)                                                   8.03           8.18         11.41

                                    1)	reporting based on local regulations and includes work-related and travel accidents.
                                    2)	figures were adjusted in comparison with the corporate sustainability report 2015/16 due to changes

                                      in data collection and data definitions. there were, however, no fundamental changes in trends.

                                                                                                 employees l our responsibilities          49




active occupational health management to reduce the illness rate
for the phoenix group, promoting health and safety is one of the most crucial areas of activity related
to sustainability, which has motivated its strategic objective of reducing the illness rate. we aim to
reduce this rate from 4.47 per cent (in the reference year 2014/15) to 3.47 per cent by the fiscal year
2018/19. the phoenix group is making progress towards achieving this goal. in the reporting year, the
illness rate fell to 4.12 per cent, from 4.38 in the previous year.                                            figures 2015/16 were adjusted
                                                                                                               due to improved reporting
                                                                                                               (see table on page 61).
various activities in the individual countries have contributed to this success. these include, for
instance, an active occupational health management system in germany, which was established as a
binding commitment in 2016 with a framework agreement that included defined targets. one of the
most important projects in this connection included measures taken in the distribution centres to sup-         for more information,

port early cancer diagnosis, spinal health, and first aider training. since september 2016, employees          see chapter “environment”
                                                                                                               on page 37.
have also had the opportunity to lease bicycles in collaboration with the company jobrad, thereby not
only doing something positive for their own health, but also supporting climate protection.

in the context of occupational health management, the company launched a health campaign focus-
sing on exercise (“daily exercise throughout the year”) in 2017. tips for exercises to strengthen the
musculoskeletal system can be found in the employee magazine, at the information points in the distri-
bution centres, and in coin on the intranet.

effective and respectful conversations between managers and employees about returning to or
absence from work, as well as corporate integration management, are also expected to contribute to a
decreasing illness rate. a corresponding works agreement has been adopted in germany for this purpose.

featured amongst the activities given priority in our subsidiaries is an initiative in the united kingdom to
offer mental health support and training to management, which includes a hotline offering advice in the
event of personal or professional conflict situations. in italy, our subsidiary invested in the analysis of
and the protection of employees from electromagnetic fields. in austria, phoenix employees can claim
medical massages and health checks, while in the czech republic, staff are being offered a free flu
vaccination. in denmark and the netherlands, our employees can purchase health insurance cover at
a discount. norway and estonia are focussing on funding sports activities for their staff.

50




     providing sponsorship, support, motivation,
     and training, or simply being there for those
     in need – our social commitment is varied and
     knows no geographical boundaries.

                                                                                                    society l our responsibilities   51




                                               04
                                        society
                      international commitment to the common good

                      ° various activities relating to our mission “we deliver health
                          across europe”

                      °   20 years of phoenix pharmaceutics science award

                      °   group-wide guidance document for donations and sponsoring

                      °   investments in the common good totalled €0.9 million




as a healthcare provider, the phoenix group plays an active role in society. for us, responsibility
involves using our skills and resources to make a positive contribution to the common good, beyond
the scope of our core business. in doing so, we always aim to produce a long-term, sustainable benefit.
our commitment is further strengthened by funding local and regional projects in the vicinity of our sites.

our mission is: “we deliver health across europe”. it guides our choice of areas to support as part of our
social commitment. above all, these include:


° pdromoting pharmaceutical research, such as with the phoenix pharmaceutics science award

° and day-care centres, as well as regional institutions
      eepening our local social commitment by funding charitable organisations, including hospitals


° gassisting
      roup-wide charitable projects, such as support for kulturbras e.v. in fortaleza, brazil

°              schools and universities to ensure future generations of qualified personnel

52      our responsibilities l society




                                    phoenix anti-corruption guidelines are strictly adhered to when organising fundraising and sponsorship
       the main contents of the     activities. furthermore, we adopted a group-wide guidance document for donation and sponsorship
     guideline can be found here:   requests in march 2017, which primarily contains criteria and helpful information for the selection of
      www.phoenixgroup.eu/en/       suitable projects. the document also specifies which activities will not be supported. these include
        responsibility/donations-   events held by political parties or branches of government, projects that may be related to the corporate
              and-sponsorships/     activities of phoenix, and organisations that are opposed to our interests or could damage our company’s
                                    reputation. decisions about local funding measures will continue to be made locally within each country
                                    or by the respective subsidiaries.

                                    in the past year, the total amount of donations was halved, from approximately €1.8 million to €0.9 million.
                                    this has several reasons: among other things, funds spent on infrastructure were previously included in
                                    this figure. for the current reporting year, this kpi has been more precisely defined in order to improve
                                    the reporting. as a result, these figures are no longer part of the disclosed donation amount.



                                    austria


                                    ° psalers,
                                         hago: our austrian subsidiary is a member of the association of austrian pharmaceutical whole-
                                                which regularly makes donations to good causes. for in example, in 2016, the initiative for the
                                        rehabilitation of children and young people in austria as well as the papageno children’s hospice
                                        was supported.

                                    bulgaria


                                    ° cments
                                         haritable donations in cash and kind: assorted it equipment is gifted to schools and establish-
                                               for disabled people. our employees in bulgaria have also been collecting for the bulgarian
                                        charities aid foundation (bcaf).

                                    °   award winner: in 2016, phoenix pharma bulgaria received a bronze medal for its social commitment.

                                    croatia


                                    ° focussing
                                      putting people first: in croatia, we support charitable organisations and humanitarian initiatives
                                                 on health issues through a wide variety of fundraising activities and other measures.

                                    denmark


                                    ° ting
                                      commitment to health: nomeco supports a whole range of projects that are dedicated to combat-
                                           various diseases. this past year, these causes included pink saturday, which contributes
                                        towards the fight against breast cancer, and a foundation for children with cancer.

                                    °   ad hoc initiatives: the subsidiary also supports emergency appeals from the red cross.

                                                                                53



in focus

phoenix pharmaceutics
science award
twenty years of
innovation in                                  1996
pharmaceutical          it was in 1996 that the phoenix group first intro-
research                duced an award for excellence in pharmaceutical
                        research. the phoenix pharmaceutics science
                        award is now one of the most prestigious science
                        awards in the german-speaking world. then as today,
                        the objective is to promote the enormous potential
                        for innovation in the pharmaceutical industry. as an
                        integrated healthcare provider, we also want the
                        award to strengthen the pharmaceutical supply chain
                        in the long term.



                                        4 categories

                        4 categories are covered by the phoenix science
                        award: pharmacology and clinical pharmacology,
                        pharmaceutical biology, pharmaceutical chemistry,
                        and pharmaceutical technology. every year, the panel
                        of independent jurors is impressed by the quality of
                        the entries received from universities in germany,
                        austria, and switzerland. the submissions are thor-
                        oughly reviewed and evaluated before the jury of four
                        selects the winners.



                                     80 prizewinners

                        80 prizewinners have had the honour of receiving
                        the phoenix pharmaceutics science award so far.
                        the impressive success stories show that there is
                        more to it than an awards presentation: many of the
                        award-winning research projects are having a signifi-
                        cant impact on therapies and drug developments.
                        these innovations are contributing to a healthy life.



                                            €500,000

                        €500,000 is the total amount of prize money we have
                        awarded over two decades, with pride and conviction.
                        the brilliant projects are also honoured at length at
                        the annual award ceremony.

54    our responsibilities l society




                                 estonia


                                 ° december
                                   “do good”: a charity campaign with the slogan “do good” was held in all benu pharmacies in
                                             2016. more than 600 children living in poverty received pharmaceutical products including
                                     vitamins and nutritional supplements.

                                 °   student bursaries: our subsidiary in estonia also awarded three bursaries to students at the
                                     university of tartu.

                                 finland


                                 ° international
                                   plan international: since 2009, tamro finland has sponsored three children through the plan
                                                 child welfare organisation.

                                 ° twith
                                      he health awards: at a major event on 26 january 2017, our finnish subsidiary was presented
                                          awards in the fields of health and innovation. these awards serve to promote research and
                                     development in finland.

                                 france


                                 ° pharmavie
                                   hospital teddy bear room: after its involvement in cannes, the french pharmacy association
                                               has cooperated with phoenix to equip france’s largest children’s hospital in paris with
                                     a children’s lounge.

                                 °   world aids day: a large fundraising event was held in all phoenix pharmacies on 1 december 2016 in
                                      support of the fight against aids. all of the proceeds will be invested in research and development.

                                 germany



     see focus theme, page 53.
                                 ° ppharmaceutical
                                      hoenix pharmaceutics science award: over the past 20 years, we have used this prize to promote
                                                    research and development in german-speaking countries.

                                 ° disadvantaged
                                   kulturbras e.v.: we have been supporting this non-profit association for 25 years, aiding
                                                 children in fortaleza, brazil, providing them with regular meals and good school care.

                                 ° “part
                                      offizin im blick” (focus on the dispensing pharmacy): pharmacists are participating in surveys as
                                          of a panel of experts on behalf of the phoenix group. we are making a donation to a children’s
                                     charity for each completed survey.

                                 great britain


                                 ° past
                                   nspcc and cancer research: in great britain, numerous fundraising events were held during the
                                        fiscal year. the main recipients of the large sums collected were the nspcc – an organisation
                                     that promotes child protection – and cancer research. events included a sponsored cycle race, a
                                     charity ball, and participation in the world cancer day. the latter included the sale of wristbands in
                                     rowlands pharmacies in support of cancer research uk.

                                 hungary


                                 ° the
                                   comprehensive fundraising activities: the wide-ranging social commitment in hungary relates to
                                       fields of education and science as well as to health and the environment, in addition to children
                                     and sports. managers and employees of phoenix and benu came together to take part in a charity
                                     run in support of sick children. donations were collected to grant the wishes of the children through
                                     the csodlámpa (magic lamp) foundation. activities include furthermore providing financial assis-
                                     tance to young pharmacists and collecting pharmaceutical waste as well as paper and cardboard
                                     in pharmacies.

                                                                                                    society l our responsibilities   55




italy


° number
  motorhome packed with medicines: over the past year, our italian subsidiary participated in a
         of events and initiatives, including activities to support the victims of the earthquake in italy.
    in conjunction with disaster response teams and pharmacists, phoenix converted a motorhome
    into a mobile pharmacy and sent it straight to the area affected by the crisis.

°   castelluccio di norcia: employees in italy have also been donating their vacation days and overtime
     to contribute towards reconstructing this town after it was destroyed by the earthquake.

lithuania


° ptheinkrehabilitation
            run: a large number of employees took part in last year’s “pink run with benu” in support of
                         of breast cancer patients.

° among
  the order of malta: tamro also participated in various christmas campaigns and charity events,
         others with the order of malta in lithuania.

macedonia


° macedonia
  charity run for a good cause: on 8 may 2016 (europe day), a team from phoenix’s subsidiary in
              ran in the wizz air skopje marathon, the country’s biggest sporting event. overall, runners
    from 45 nations participated.

norway


° without
  doctors without borders: our subsidiary in norway has been supporting the organisation doctors
          borders through donations in cash and kind for several years.

serbia


° tobelhospice: in serbia, we are supporting belhospice, the first charitable organisation in the country
       provide palliative care to patients with advanced cancer. the charity also aims to build serbia’s
    first hospice with inpatient admission. phoenix contributed in a variety of ways, donating €10,000
    as one of the main sponsors of the belgrade marathon.

slovakia


° pdation,
     ontis foundation: our slovakian subsidiary is involved, among other initiatives, in the pontis foun-
            which was established in 1997 to assist charitable organisations in slovakia.

sweden


° sweden’s
  the queen silvia children’s hospital: for many years, our swedish subsidiary tamro has funded
           largest children’s hospital in gothenburg, which is also one of the largest of its kind in
    europe. the foundation’s chief objective is to ensure that waiting periods are made as pleasant and
    enjoyable as possible for the hospital’s young patients.

56   facts and figures




     facts and figures




                           key figures of the phoenix group

                           the corporate sustainability report 2016/17 includes the key performance indicators (kpis) from all
                           of the subsidiaries and their domestic affiliates for the third time running. all data relating to economy
                           and environment, as well as lost-time injuries, were recorded by the subsidiaries in a centralised csr
                           management software. the other employee indicators not mentioned are excluded. this information
                           was provided via the phoenix group’s central hr system.



                 g4 -ec1   added value


                           economic value retained of the phoenix group                                    2014/15      2015/16      2016/17
                           in eur k


                           net turnover                                                                 22,567,998   23,247,428   24,436,695
                           community investments 1)                                                          2,031        1,729         913
                           personnel expenses                                                            1,034,353    1,158,714    1,289,161
                           operating costs                                                              21,119,765   21,725,836   22,844,496
                           taxes and fees                                                                  73,364       95,031      118,082
                           dividends and interest payments to investors                                    99,225       78,025       67,760
                           economic value retained                                                        239,260      188,063      116,284

                           1) figures were adjusted due to a different booking assignment in germany.

                                                                                                                                        facts and figures       57




environment

total ghg emissions (scope 1–3)                                                                                                        see glossary, page 68.



co2 in tonnes                                                                        2014/15          2015/16                2016/17


scope 1 total                                                                         20,501           22,908                25,844
scope 2 total 1)                                                                      47,693           49,168                49,830
scope 3 total 2)                                                                     140,907         152,603             137,009
total ghg emissions of the phoenix group                                            209,101          224,679             212,683

1) data adjusted for different reporting unit (see note under consumption of district heating).
2) figures were adjusted in comparison with the corporate sustainability report 2015/16 due to changes in data collection.




total ghg emissions by region (scope 1–3)


co2 in tonnes                                                                        2014/15          2015/16                2016/17


phoenix group                                                                       209,101          224,679             212,683
germany                                                                               60,050           57,860                57,498
western europe                                                                        54,364           78,578                66,226
eastern europe 1)                                                                     35,314           38,618                39,821
northern europe 2)                                                                    59,374           49,623                49,139

1) data adjusted for different reporting unit (see note under consumption of district heating).
2) figures were adjusted in comparison with the corporate sustainability report 2015/16 due to changes in data collection.




emissions from direct energy consumption including
own transport by region (scope 1)


co2 in tonnes                                                                        2014/15          2015/16                2016/17


phoenix group                                                                         20,501          22,908                 25,844
germany                                                                                 2,727           2,765                 2,804
western europe                                                                        10,182           11,990                15,377
eastern europe                                                                          5,718           6,321                 5,737
northern europe                                                                         1,874           1,831                 1,925

58   facts and figures




                         emissions from indirect energy consumption by region (scope 2)


                         co2 in tonnes                                                                         2014/15              2015/16             2016/17


                         phoenix group                                                                          47,693              49,168               49,830
                         germany                                                                                18,173               17,677              17,364
                         western europe                                                                         11,477               12,762              13,370
                         eastern europe 1)                                                                      10,661               11,773              12,030
                         northern europe                                                                          7,382               6,955                7,066

                         1) data adjusted for different reporting unit (see note under consumption of district heating).




                         emissions from subcontracted transport by region (scope 3)


                         co2 in tonnes                                                                         2014/15              2015/16             2016/17


                         phoenix group                                                                        140,907             152,603              137,009
                         germany                                                                                39,150               37,417              37,329
                         western europe                                                                         32,705               53,825              37,479
                         eastern europe                                                                         18,935               20,524              22,054
                         northern europe 1)                                                                     50,117               40,837              40,147

                         1) figures were adjusted in comparison with the corporate sustainability report 2015/16 due to changes in data collection.




                         consumption of district heating by region


                         in mwh                                                                                2014/15              2015/16             2016/17


                         phoenix group                                                                          21,642              21,093               21,782
                         germany                                                                                  4,113               4,174                4,507
                         western europe                                                                                0                    0                   0
                         eastern europe 1)                                                                        3,749               3,859                3,870
                         northern europe                                                                        13,780               13,060              13,404

                         1)	explanation of the deviating reported values in previous years: the czech republic used a different reporting unit in previous years’

                           reports (gj instead of mwh).

                                                                     facts and figures   59




consumption of electricity by region


in mwh                                 2014/15   2015/16   2016/17


phoenix group                          134,180   136,826   139,385
germany                                 34,147    33,042    32,050
western europe                          35,545    38,461    40,238
eastern europe                          18,320    20,438    20,698
northern europe                         46,168    44,884    46,400




non-hazardous waste by region


in tonnes                              2014/15   2015/16   2016/17


phoenix group                           20,007    20,031    23,158
germany                                  8,380     8,405     8,621
western europe                           5,663     5,457     7,782
eastern europe                           2,462     2,317     2,531
northern europe                          3,502     3,852     4,224




pharmaceutical waste by region


in tonnes                              2014/15   2015/16   2016/17


phoenix group                            1,107     1,204     1,432
germany                                   185       111       195
western europe                            106       151       183
eastern europe                            198       177       205
northern europe                           618       765       850

60   facts and figures




                         employees

                         total employees and full-time equivalents (ftes) by region 1)


                                                       2014/15   2015/16        2016/17        2014/15         2015/16     2016/17
                                                           fte       fte            fte      employees       employees   employees


                         phoenix group                 24,461    25,235          27,664        28,872          29,745      34,145
                         germany                        3,577     3,506            3,508         4,489           4,398       4,434
                         western europe                 9,887     9,938          11,664         12,690         12,709      15,294
                         eastern europe                 5,659     6,194            6,861         6,025           6,598       7,315
                         northern europe                5,338     5,596            5,631         5,668           6,040       7,102

                         1) per due date 31 january.




                         employees by gender, type of employment, and region


                                                                                                   2016/17

                                                                           full-time       part-time         full-time    part-time
                         in figures                                            male            male            female       female


                         phoenix group                                       7,936           2,254            11,816       12,139
                         germany                                             1,449             369               942         1,674
                         western europe                                      3,214            1,350            3,002         7,728
                         eastern europe                                      1,934             105             4,574          702
                         northern europe                                     1,339             430             3,298         2,035

                                                                                                                                       facts and figures   61




sickness-related absenteeism 1)


in hours                                                                             2014/15          2015/16                2016/17


phoenix group                                                                    2,258,931         2,285,216           2,395,356
germany                                                                             464,421           541,205                540,683
western europe                                                                      868,108           838,678                846,403
eastern europe                                                                      367,549           358,564                411,840
northern europe 2)                                                                  558,853           546,769                596,429

1) figures shown are the total of paid and upaid sick hours.
2) figures were adjusted due to improved reporting and higher data quality in norway.




total recordable injury frequency (trif) 1)


per one million working hours                                                        2014/15          2015/16 2)             2016/17


injuries with lost time                                                                    341             358                  562
actual working hours                                                            42,464,505        43,786,889          49,244,669
total recordable injury frequency (trif)                                                   8.03           8.18                11.41

1)	reporting based on local regulations and includes work-related and travel accidents.
2)	figures were adjusted in comparison with the corporate sustainability report 2015/16 due to changes in data collection

  and data definitions. there were, however, no fundamental changes in trends.

62   gri g4 content index




     gri g4 content index



                              a gri materiality disclosures service was performed by the global reporting initiative for this report.
                              this service confirms that the standard disclosures g4-17 to g4-27 are correctly set out in the table of
                              contents (gri g4 content index) and in the text of this phoenix group corporate social responsibility
                              report 2016/17.

                              the following gri index includes standard disclosures from the gri g4 guidelines – core option.
                              it indicates the degree to which we are addressing the principal aspects and indicators and where they can
                              be found in this report. a third-party audit was not carried out in 2016/17. to simplify the presentation,
                              a column for third-party audits was therefore not included.




     general standard disclosures                                                                  page



     strategy and analysis
     g4 -1       ceo’s statement                                                                   p. 4 f.


     organisational profile
     g4 -3       name of the organisation                                                          introductory pages, p. 9
     g4 -4       primary brands, products, and services                                            introductory pages, p. 9 ff.
     g4 -5       location of organisation’s headquarters                                           p. 9, imprint
     g4 -6       number of countries in which operations are located                               p. 9 f.
     g4 -7       nature of ownership and legal form                                                imprint, annual report 2016/17
                                                                                                   www.phoenixgroup.eu/en/
                                                                                                   investor-relations/publications/
                                                                                                   annual-report-201617/
     g4 -8       markets served                                                                    p. 9 f.
     g4 -9       scale of the organisation                                                         introductory pages, p. 9
     g4 -10      size and breakdown of workforce                                                   introductory pages, p. 9, p. 42, p. 60
     g4 -11      employees covered by collective bargaining agreements                             p. 48
     g4 -12      description of supply chain                                                       p. 9 ff.
     g4 -13      significant changes during the reporting period in terms of size,                 p. 8
                 structure, and ownership
     g4 -14      precautionary approach or principle                                               p. 9 ff., p. 21
     g4 -15      external charters, principles, and initiatives                                    p. 24
     g4 -16      memberships in associations                                                       p. 13, p. 24

                                                                                                 gri g4 content index   63




general standard disclosures                                                    page



identified material aspects and boundaries
g4 -17      organisational structure                                            p. 8, p. 9, annual report 2016/17,
                                                                                p. 39 ff., www.phoenixgroup.eu/en/
                                                                                investor-relations/publications/
                                                                                annual-report-201617/
g4 -18      definition of report content                                        p. 15 f.
g4 -19      material aspects                                                    p. 15 f.
g4 -20      material aspects within the organisation                            p. 8
g4 -21      material aspects outside the organisation                           p. 8
g4 -22      report restatements of information                                  p. 8
g4 -23      changes in report parameters                                        p. 8


stakeholder engagement
g4 -24      stakeholder groups involved                                         p. 16
g4 -25      identification and selection of stakeholders                        p. 16
g4 -26      approaches to stakeholder engagement                                p. 16
g4 -27      key topics and issues of stakeholders                               p. 17


report profile
g4 -28      reporting period                                                    p. 8
g4 -29      date of most recent previous report                                 last report was published
                                                                                on 2016/07/31
g4 -30      reporting cycle                                                     p. 8
g4 -31      contact person for questions regarding the report or its contents   p. 18, imprint
g4 -32      “in accordance” option in the gri index                             p. 8
g4 -33      third-party audit of the report                                     a third-party audit was not
                                                                                performed in 2016/17.


governance
g4 -34      governance structure                                                annual report 2016/17
                                                                                www.phoenixgroup.eu/en/
                                                                                investor-relations/publications/
                                                                                annual-report-201617/


ethics and integrity
g4 -56      values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour               p. 9, p. 18
            such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics
g4 -57      mechanisms for finding advice on ethical and lawful behaviour,      p. 18
            and matters related to organisational integrity
g4 -58      mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful       p. 18
            behaviour, and matters related to organisational integrity

64   gri g4 content index




     specific standard disclosures                                omissions   page



     economic
     aspect: economic performance
     g4 -ec1      direct economic value generated                             introductory pages, p. 56
                  and distributed


     environmental
     aspect: energy
     g4 -en3      energy consumption within the organisation                  p. 36 f., p. 58 f.
     g4 -en6      reduction of energy consumption                             p. 36 f.
     aspect: emissions
     g4 -en15     direct greenhouse gas (ghg)                                 p. 38, p. 57 f.
                  emissions (scope 1)
     g4 -en16     energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg)                        p. 38, p. 57 f.
                  emissions (scope 2)
     g4 -en17     other indirect greenhouse gas (ghg)                         p. 38, p. 57 f.
                  emissions (scope 3)
     aspect: effluents and waste
     g4 -en23     total weight of waste by type and                           p. 32 ff., p. 59
                  disposal method
     aspect: products and services
     g4 -en27     extent of impact mitigation                                 p. 32 ff.
                  of environmental impacts of products
                  and services
     aspect: compliance
     g4 -en29     monetary value of significant fines and total               we are not aware of any incidents.
                  number of non-monetary sanctions for
                  non-compliance with environmental laws
                  and regulations
     aspect: transport
     g4 -en30     significant environmental impacts                           p. 38 f.
                  of transportation

                                                                                                                   gri g4 content index   65




specific standard disclosures                         omissions                                     page



social


labour practices and decent work
aspect: employment
g4 -la1      total number and rates of new            the rates of rates of newly hired              introductory pages, p. 42, p. 60
             employee hires and employee turnover     employees and employee turnover are
                                                      not currently available. standardised
                                                      reporting of this key figure will be approved.
aspect: occupational health and safety
g4 -la6      type of injury and rates of injury,                                                    p. 48, p. 61
             lost days, and absenteeism
aspect: training and education
g4 -la9      average hours of training                the average hours of training per year        p. 43
             per year per employee by gender          per employee is currently not available.
             and employee category                    available training hours will be
                                                      explained in the respective chapter.
g4 -la11     percentage of employees receiving        personnel development appraisal               p. 46
             regular performance and career           meetings were held in almost all
             development reviews, by gender           phoenix group companies. an
             and employee categor                     up-to-date percentage is currently not
                                                      available. due to differences in local
                                                      data protection rules no information
                                                      on gender or employee categories can
                                                      be disclosed.
aspect: diversity and equal opportunity
g4 -la12     composition of governance bodies         a breakdown of employees according            p. 42, p. 60,
             and breakdown of employees per           to age is currently not available.            annual report 2016/17:
             employee category according to gender,   standardised reporting of this key figure     www.phoenixgroup.eu/en/
             age group, minority group membership,    will be approved. no minorities are           investor-relations/publications/
             and other indicators of diversity        known to the phoenix group.                   annual-report-201617/

66   gri g4 content index




     specific standard disclosures                                omissions                             page


     human rights
     aspect: human rights grievance mechanisms
     g4 -hr12     number of grievances about human rights                                               p. 12
                  impacts filed, addressed, and resolved
                  through formal grievance mechanisms


     society
     aspect: anti-corruption
     g4 -so4      communication and training on                                                         p. 18
                  anti-corruption policies and procedures
     aspect: anti-competitive behaviour
     g4 -so7      total number of legal actions for                                                     we are not aware of any incidents.
                  anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and
                  monopoly practices and their outcomes
     aspect: compliance
     g4 -so8      monetary value of significant fines and total                                         we are not aware of any incidents.
                  number of non-monetary sanctions for
                  non-compliance with laws and regulations


     product responsibility
     aspect: customer health and safety
     g4 -pr1      percentage of significant product               a percentage of this aspect is        p. 24 ff.
                  and service categories for which health         currently unavailable. the existing
                  and safety impacts are assessed for             processes, however, are explained
                  improvement                                     in the respective chapter.
     aspect: customer privacy
     g4 -pr8      total number of substantiated complaints                                              p. 28 f.
                  regarding breaches of customer privacy and
                  losses of customer data

                                                                                                  glossary   67




glossary



abbreviations                               best practices
bdsg german federal data protection act     an organisation’s proven and exemplary methods
cee     central eastern europe              and procedures. for example, this means that
co2     carbon dioxide                      process optimisation measures carried out
emvo	european medicines verification       successfully on a local basis can subsequently
        organisation                        serve as a starting point for improvement
esm	european stakeholder model             measures in other countries.
ewc	european works council
fcpa	foreign corrupt practices act         district heating
fmd	falsified medicines directive          system for distributing heat. district heating is
        2011/62/eu                          a system of pure, hot water that is led from
fmea	failure modes and effects analysis    electricity- and heat-producing power plants and
fte	full-time equivalent                   heating plants in a closed district heating network
gdd 	german association for data           to the customer’s heat exchangers and back.
        protection and data security        after the building’s heating system and hot water
gdp	good distribution practice             tanks have been heated, the cooled-off district
gri	global reporting initiative            heating water returns to the starting point.
        (organisation for sustainability
        reporting)                          e-learning
hc	headcount                               e-learning stands for digital learning, facilitated
hr	human resources                         by the internet, for example.
ifrs	international financial
        reporting standards                 energy audit
iso	international organisation for         this investigation procedure is a systematic
        standardisation                     inspection and analysis of an organisation’s
m&a	mergers and acquisitions               energy use and energy consumption with the
nspcc	national society of the prevention   aim of identifying opportunities to improve
        of cruelty to children              energy efficiency.
ohm	occupational health management
qm	quality management                      energy efficiency
trif	total recordable injury frequency     energy efficiency means that products are
                                            manufactured with the least possible energy
                                            consumption. the term energy efficiency is
                                            also used in connection with machines and
                                            equipment with low power consumption.

68   glossary




                european healthcare distribution                     foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa)
                association (girp)                                   us federal legislation enforced since 1977 that
                girp is the umbrella organisation for pharma-        prohibits giving payments and valuable gifts
                ceutical wholesalers in europe. it is a non-profit   to foreign government officials for the purpose
                body that represents the national associations       of securing business contracts or maintaining
                of more than 750 pharmaceutical wholesalers          business relationships.
                serving 33 european countries, including major
                pharmaceutical distribution companies.               global reporting initiative (gri)
                                                                     the global reporting initiative (gri) is an inter­
                european management development                      national framework for sustainability reporting.
                programme (emdp)                                     it comprises standards for csr reporting for
                the european management development pro-             the purposes of sustainable development, which
                gramme is a european training and development        are divided into the three categories of economic,
                programme for (junior) managers in all countries     environmental, and social responsibility. the
                of the phoenix group.                                gri aims to make sustainability reports as wide-
                                                                     spread and comparable as every other annual
                european medicines verification                      report published by companies.
                organisation (emvo)
                the emvo is a non-profit organisation head­          good distribution practice (gdp)
                quartered in luxembourg. its primary goals are       standard for the proper distribution and handling
                to prevent counterfeit pharmaceuticals from          of pharmaceuticals.
                entering the eu supply chain and to improve
                patient safety.                                      greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions
                                                                     the main natural greenhouse gases are water
                falsified medicines directive (fmd) 2011/62/eu       vapour (h2o), carbon dioxide (co2), methane
                this directive from the european parliament and      (ch4), ozone (o3), and nitrous oxide (n2o). in
                european council comprises, among other              addition, human activities have released other
                things, the regulations for manufacturing and        substances classed as greenhouse gases, such
                importing pharmaceuticals, placing them on the       as halocarbons (cfc, hcfc, hfc, and pcf) and
                market, and their wholesale distribution in the      sulphur hexafluor­ide. the use of the above-men-
                european union. it also lays down provisions         tioned substances is either partly or wholly pro-
                concerning active substances.                        hibited or restricted. they are classified as ghg
                                                                     emissions. emissions are categorised as scope
                                                                     1, scope 2, or scope 3, depending on their
                                                                     impact. scope 1 includes all direct emissions.
                                                                     indirect emissions from the consumption of elec-
                                                                     tricity or district heat are covered by scope 2.
                                                                     scope 3 relates to all other indirect emissions,
                                                                     such as the transport of a company’s goods by
                                                                     subcontractors.

                                                                                                    glossary   69




hvo100                                             phagro (bundesverband des pharma­
biodiesel that is extracted from waste materials   zeutischen großhandels e. v.)
such as used grease or cooking oils as well as     german federal association bringing together
vegetable oils from oil-bearing crops.             all 11 full-range pharmaceutical wholesale
                                                   businesses with a total of 113 branches.
initiative securpharm
securpharm is an initiative set up by various      pharmaceutical waste
stakeholders from the pharmaceutical industry      pharmaceutical products that expired or were
whose aim is to protect the sale of german         damaged during packing or distribution.
pharmaceuticals against counterfeit drugs.         pharmaceutical waste must be handled with
                                                   care and disposed of at hazardous waste
iso                                                treatment facilities.
international organisation for standardisation.
iso standards include iso 9000 for quality         pre-wholesale
management systems and iso 14001 for environ-      pre-wholesale activities relate to logistics
mental management systems.                         services for pharmaceutical manufacturers.

junior development programme (jdp)                 warehouse excellence initiative
the junior development programme is aimed          an initiative that was launched in 2013 and
at employees in germany with noticeable            centres on making continuous improvements
development potential who are just starting        to quality and performance in our distribution
their professional careers.                        centres. in initial workshops, local warehouse
                                                   employees learn the basics of lean management.
management development programme (mdp)
the management development programme is a
training and development programme for (junior)
managers of all divisions at phoenix in germany.

materiality matrix
the materiality matrix enables a company
to decide which csr activities to invest in.
the ma­teriality matrix is a two-dimensional
representation of csr issues: the importance
or attractiveness of the topic to stakeholders,
and the importance of the issue to the company
in terms of the likely impact of the initiatives
on business success.

70   imprint




     imprint



     publisher                           concept, text, design, and realisation
     ingo schnaitmann                    group communications phoenix group
     head of corporate communications    hgb hamburger geschäftsberichte gmbh & co. kg,
     stefanie göndöcs                    hamburg, germany
     csr manager
     phoenix group                       photographs
                                         brocacef (p. 26, 44, 45)
     phoenix pharmahandel gmbh & co kg   thomas gasparini (cover, p. 6, 7, 20, 23, 25, 30, 34, 35, 40, 47)
     group communications                hans-georg merkel (p. 26, 28, 44, 45, 47, 53)
     pfingstweidstrasse 10 –12           phoenix group (p. 28)
     68199 mannheim                      plainpicture/cultura/phil boorman (cover, p. 50)
     germany                             jacob schröter (p. 23)
     phone +49 (0)621 8505 8503
     fax    +49 (0)621 8505 8501         © phoenix pharmahandel gmbh & co kg,
     media@phoenixgroup.eu               mannheim, germany
     www.phoenixgroup.eu                 printed in germany. all rights reserved.

                                         translation of the german version.
                                         the german version is binding.
                                         translation: target languages gmbh,
                                         dossenheim, germany

                                         data for this report have been gathered
                                         europe-wide, consolidated, and prepared by
                                         means of csr management software by

phoenix pharmahandel gmbh & co kg
pfingstweidstrasse 10 –12
68199 mannheim
germany
www.phoenixgroup.eu/de
